ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Unless otherwise noted or the context indicates otherwise, all references in this Item to “we,” “us,” or “our,” refer to the Company and its subsidiaries. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that we believe affect us are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or currently deemed immaterial may also impair business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. For information regarding the risks the Company faces with respect to competition, see the discussion in Part I, Item 1 captioned “Market Area and Competition.” General Credit Risk and Nonperforming Loans We face the risk that loan losses, including unanticipated loan losses due to changes in loan portfolios, fraud and economic factors, could exceed the allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would cause our net income to decline and could have a negative impact on our capital and financial position. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that customer loans will not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the loan; • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in unemployment, economic and industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, the potential inadequacy of the value of the collateral in the event of default, such as has resulted from the deterioration in commercial and residential real estate values. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors including, among others, the ongoing review and grading of the loan portfolio, consideration of past loan loss experience as well as that of the banking industry, trends in past due and nonperforming loans, risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans, existing economic conditions, the fair value of underlying collateral, the size and diversity of individual credits, and other qualitative and quantitative factors which could affect probable credit losses. We determine the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering these factors and by using estimates related to the amount and timing of expected future cash flows on impaired loans, estimated losses on pools of homogeneous loans based on our historical loss experience with additional qualitative factors for various issues, and allocation of specific reserves for special situations that are unique to the measurement period with consideration of current economic trends and conditions, all of 21 Table of Contents which are susceptible to significant change. Because current economic conditions can change and future events are inherently difficult to predict, the anticipated amount of estimated loan losses, and therefore the adequacy of the allowance, could change significantly. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is sensitive to real estate values, and declining real estate prices in our markets have resulted in sharp increases in delinquencies and losses on certain segments of our portfolio. Although we do not engage in subprime lending, the related economic issues and the resulting disruption in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans and the reduction in the availability of mortgage credit have contributed to a decline in the real estate markets generally, and certain segments of our loan portfolio, particularly our lot loans, and construction & development loan portfolios, have suffered large increases in delinquencies and losses. Although we have ceased extending lot loans and construction & development loans and are working actively to manage our remaining lot loans and construction & development loan portfolios, we may suffer further losses in this segment if market conditions continue to deteriorate and our efforts to limit losses through workouts of bad loans are unsuccessful. Taken together with the general economic downturn in our key markets, the effects of ongoing mortgage market turbulence, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further reductions in real estate values, further adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations, and profits on sale of mortgage loans. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers and their ability to repay loans from us. A sustained economic downturn could adversely affect other portions of our loan portfolio. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses, and therefore we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses or that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will otherwise be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would cause net income to decline in the period(s) in which such additions occur and could also have a material adverse impact on our capital and financial position. Interest Rate Risk While we attempt to manage the risk from changes in market interest rates, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. In addition, we may not be able to economically hedge our interest rate risk. A rapid or substantial increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and results of operations. Our net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets, the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of the change in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Net interest income is not only affected by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve, relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. We attempt to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. We continually review our interest rate risk position and modify our strategies based on projections to minimize the impact of future interest rate changes. However, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial performance. Economic Conditions Difficult economic conditions have adversely affected the banking industry and financial markets generally and may significantly affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates and the money supply and other factors may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels, loan demand, and therefore, earnings. 22 Table of Contents The capital and credit markets, including fixed income markets, have been experiencing volatility and disruption since August 2007. In some cases the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ financial strength. Secondary markets for certain forms of securitized credit have ceased to function. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write downs of asset values by financial institutions. This has also resulted in the write-downs of mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and other securities and loans. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge offs and provision for credit losses, as well as principal write-downs on loan and investment assets. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will persist, the extent to which they will impact our business, or whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. Accordingly, the resulting shortfall of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets, and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result of the challenges presented by current economic conditions, we face various risks in connection with these events, including the following: • Inability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses. • Increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal standards, and regulatory requirements or expectations in connection with the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) or future legislation. Compliance with such regulation will likely increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. In addition, compensation restrictions associated with EESA, ARRA, or similar future legislation may affect our ability to attract and retain key management personnel. • Possible changes to bankruptcy laws could result in the loss of all or part of our security interest in mortgage loans (so-called “cramdown” provisions) or other foreclosure moratorium laws. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations may result in an inability to borrow at favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. If Investment Securities we Own Suffer a Decline in Value Considered to be Other Than Temporary, we May be Required to Record a Significant Charge to Earnings. The Company evaluates its investment securities that have declined in value to determine whether we believe an impairment is other than temporary. For example, securities may decline in value if the issuer is experiencing difficulties that may jeopardize our ability to recover in a reasonable time the amount we invested. Should we determine that a decline in security value is other than temporary, we are required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which we made that determination. Most susceptible to impairment risk within the Company’s investment portfolio are significant holdings of non-agency collateralized mortgage obligations. Other than temporary impairment testing at December 31, 2008, indicated that the 19 of the Company’s 44 non-agency collateralized mortgage obligations had a discounted cash flow deficiency of approximately $7.5 million, representing estimated credit loss. The estimated fair value, based on level 3 inputs, including a market participant estimated discount rate, indicated a further loss of approximately $32.5 million. In the event of continued worsening economic conditions, and increasing residential mortgage default rates, the Company’s non-agency CMO portfolio could experience additional other than temporary impairment charges to current earnings. In times of economic stress, declines in the value of securities become more prevalent, increasing the likelihood of charges to our earnings. Failure to Maintain Compliance with Regulatory Standards and Mandates Could Result in Adverse Regulatory Action Against Us and Restrict Certain Activities. The Bank is party to a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with our regulators. The MOU requires, among other things, that we report regularly to the regulators about our operations, financial condition and efforts to mitigate risk. Pursuant to the MOU, the Bank has committed to maintain a minimum Tier 1 Risk Based Capital ratio of 8% and a minimum Total Risk-Based Capital ratio of 10%. The Bank did not meet these higher capital thresholds at December 31, 2008. Management is in process of implementing a plan to achieve these capital levels. There is no assurance, however, that the well capitalized level can be achieved by the Bank, or that, if it is achieved, it can be maintained, if operating results do not improve. A failure to maintain compliance with the terms of the MOU, 23 Table of Contents including the failure to return to and maintain well capitalized status, could result in further adverse regulatory actions and restrictions upon our activities. We will Likely Need to Raise Additional Capital in the Near Future Given our recent losses, asset quality issues, and overall financial condition, it is reasonable to assume that we will need to raise additional capital in the near future to provide the Company sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. We may not be able to raise the necessary capital on favorable terms, or at all. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions will likely serve to only further increase our cost of funding and further limit our access to capital. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There Can be no Assurance That Recently Enacted Legislation Will Stabilize the U.S. Financial System. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of 2009, the federal government has enacted new laws intended to strengthen and restore confidence in the U.S. financial system. See “Regulation and Supervision” under Item 1 above for additional information regarding these developments. There can be no assurance however as to the actual impact such programs will have on the financial markets, including extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of these and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation of worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. In addition, these statutes are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the effects that any such changes will have on the effectiveness of the federal government’s efforts to stabilize the credit markets or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Impact of Recently Enacted Legislation, in Particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act Of 2008 and it’s Implementing Regulations, and Actions by the FDIC, Cannot be Predicted at This Time. The programs established or to be established under the EESA and the Troubled Asset Relief Programs may have adverse effects upon us. We may face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the FDA, whether we participate or not, may have an adverse effect on us. Participation in the FDIC’s TLGP will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums even if we do not participate in all aspects of the TLGP because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessments Will Increase, Possibly Materially, in the Future As a member institution of the FDIC, we are required to pay semi-annual deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. Due to the recent turmoil in the financial system, including the failure of several unaffiliated FDIC-insured depository institutions, the deposit insurance premium assessments paid by all banks will increase. The FDIC has proposed a one-time assessment on all banks and has indicated future emergency assessments could also be necessary whenever the FDIC estimates that the deposit insurance fund will fall to a level that the FDIC Board believes would adversely affect public confidence in the federal deposit insurance system. Such an increase will adversely impact our earnings, perhaps materially. Our Ability to Attract and Retain Deposits and Other Funding Sources If we are unable to continue to attract and retain core deposits, to obtain third party financing on favorable terms, or to have access to interbank or other liquidity sources, our cost of funds will increase, adversely affecting the ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations, reducing net interest margin and negatively affecting results of operations. The Bank derives liquidity through core deposit growth, maturity of money market investments, and maturity and sale of investment securities and loans. Additionally, the Company has access to financial market borrowing sources on an unsecured, and a collateralized basis for both short-term and long-term purposes including, but not limited to, the Federal Reserve and Federal Home Loan Banks of which the Bank is a member. If these funding sources are not sufficient or available, we may have to acquire funds through higher-cost sources. Increased Competition Increased competition with other financial institutions or an adverse change in our relationship with a number of major customers could reduce our net interest margin and net income by decreasing the number and size of loans originated, the interest rates charged 24 Table of Contents on these loans and the fees charged for services to customers. If we lend to customers who are less likely to pay in order to maintain historical origination levels, we may not be able to maintain current loan quality levels. The Company faces substantial competition in originating commercial and consumer loans. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of our competitors have competitive advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could cause a reduction to our net income by decreasing the number and size of the loans that we originate and the interest rates we charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, we face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations which could increase our cost of funds. We also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over us in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. External Events Affect on Goodwill and Intangible Assets Events such as significant adverse changes in the business climate, adverse action by a regulator, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, decreasing market capitalization to a level below tangible book value and a decision to change our operations or dispose of an operating unit could have a negative effect on our goodwill or other intangible assets such that we may need to record an impairment charge, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are assessed at least annually for impairment, or when impairment indicators are present. After evaluating goodwill and other intangible assets, we may determine that one or both are deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Our normal practice is to review these assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year. However, due to continued volatility in the credit markets, credit quality deterioration of the Company’s residential and commercial real estate lending portfolios, and decreasing market capitalization to a level below tangible book value, management determined it was necessary to perform an interim goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of 2008. During the third quarter goodwill and other intangibles assets impairment tests, we determined that the goodwill and other intangible assets attributed to the purchase of Metrobank were not impaired. We subsequently performed the impairment tests at December 31, 2008 and determined that goodwill was 100% impaired as of that date, primarily due to the further decrease in our market capitalization during the fourth quarter. As a result, the Company recorded a 100% goodwill impairment charge of $9.8 million in the fourth quarter. The other intangible assets were determined not to be impaired. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Report. The Company May Not Realize Its Deferred Income Tax Assets. The realization of our deferred income tax assets is dependent on utilizing taxable income in prior carryback years, generating future taxable income, executing tax planning strategies, and reversing existing taxable temporary differences. A valuation allowance, if needed, reduces deferred tax assets to the amount that is “more likely than not” (i.e., greater than 50%) expected to be realized. As of December 31, 2008, the Company did not believe it was more likely than not that all of its deferred tax assets would be realized and, accordingly, recorded a $5.2 million valuation allowance. Despite the valuation allowance, these assets remain available to offset future taxable income. The valuation allowance may be adjusted as conditions change. In the event that future taxable income does not occur in the manner projected, it could affect the valuation allowance and have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. The Company’s Stock Price Can Be Volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: 25 Table of Contents • Actual or anticipated negative variations in quarterly results of operations; • Negative recommendations by securities analysts; • Poor operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • News reports relating to negative trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • Negative perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • Our failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • Adverse changes in government regulations; and • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. Trading Volume Risks Although our common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Corporation’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. Our Common Stock May Not Continue To Be Listed On An Exchange. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. In order to maintain that listing, we are required to satisfy various minimum financial and market related requirements, including, without limitation, maintaining a $1.00 per share minimum closing bid price for our common stock. In response to current market conditions, NASDAQ has temporarily suspended the enforcement rules requiring the minimum $1.00 closing bid price through April 19, 2009. Our common stock has recently traded below $1.00 per share at closing. If the closing bid price of our common stock continues to fail to meet NASDAQ’s minimum closing bid price requirement for at least 30 consecutive trading days after April 19, 2009, or such later date to which NASDAQ may extend its suspension of this requirement, NASDAQ may make a determination to delist our common stock. We may pursue other strategic alternatives to meet the continuing listing standards. Any such delisting or change in listing status could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease and could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers, and employees. Our Common Stock Is Not An Insured Deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. We May Be Adversely Affected By The Soundness Of Other Financial Institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Environmental Risks We could face unanticipated environmental liabilities or costs related to real property owned or acquired through foreclosure. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those related to investigation and clean-up of contaminated sites, could have a negative effect on expenses and results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. Legal Risks From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action are legitimate or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Technological Advances The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to providing better customer service, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial service institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the customer needs by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create additional operational efficiencies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in Regulation Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. Changes in banking or tax laws, regulations, and regulatory practices at either the federal or state level may adversely affect us, including our ability to offer new products and services, obtain financing, pay dividends from our subsidiaries to our Holding Company, attract deposits, or make loans at satisfactory spreads. Such changes may also result in the imposition of additional costs. The banking industry is heavily regulated, and such regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds, not shareholders or holders of subordinated debt. As a savings and loan holding company, we are subject to regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision. The Bank is subject to regulation by the FDIC and is also subject to regulation by the State of Michigan, Office of Financial and Insurance Regulation. These regulations affect lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. In addition, we have non-bank operating subsidiaries from which we derive income. Certain of these non-bank subsidiaries engage in providing investment management and insurance brokerage services, which industries are also heavily regulated on both a state and federal level. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the financial services industry could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. As discussed previously under Part I, Item 1 of this Report captioned “Regulation and Supervision — Federal Regulations — Insurance of Deposit Accounts,” recent changes in the method of evaluating how much each member of the FDIC pays for deposit insurance will adversely affect the Company’s earnings in 2009 and future years. In addition, the Company’s earnings are affected by the monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. These policies, which include regulating the national supply of bank reserves and bank credit, can have a major effect upon the source and cost of funds and the rates of return earned on loans and investments. The Federal Reserve influences the size and distribution of bank reserves through its open market operations and changes in cash reserve requirements against member bank deposits. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act regarding financial modernization that became effective in November, 1999 removed many of the barriers to the integration of the banking, securities and insurance industries and is likely to increase the competitive pressures upon the Company. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse 27 Table of Contents effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. On October 3, 2008, then President Bush signed into law the EESA. The legislation was the result of a proposal by then Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury will have the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury also announced a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would acquire senior preferred stock and warrants for the purchase of common stock in participating financial institutions (the “TARP Capital Purchase Program”). In addition, on October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the development of a guarantee program under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Act (“FDA”) pursuant to which the FDIC would offer a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the FDIC by issuing financial institutions (the “FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program”). Other related programs and regulations have also been proposed or are in the process of being implemented either in connection with or pursuant to EESA. Ultimately, it is impossible for the Company to predict with certainty the impact of changes in banking laws and regulations, and any changes may negatively impact the Company’s ability to provide or expand services and to increase the value of its business. The programs established or to be established under the EESA and the TARP Capital Purchase Program may ultimately result in the banking and financial services industry becoming even more heavily regulated, and compliance with new regulations may increase the Company’s costs and subject it to additional restrictions. However, the full extent of the effects of participating or not participating in any such programs cannot reliably be determined at this time. In addition, there can be no assurance regarding the actual impact that the EESA and its implementing regulations, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the FDIC, or the U.S. Government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. For more information on this subject, see the section under Part I, Item 1 of this Report captioned “Regulation and Supervision.” Changing Products and Services The products and services offered by the banking industry and customer expectations regarding them are subject to change. We attempt to respond to perceived customer needs and expectations by offering new products and services, which are often costly to develop and market initially. A lack of market acceptance of these products and services would have a negative effect on financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services we may invest significant time and resources. We may not achieve initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations and financial condition. Dividend Payout Restrictions As a savings and loan holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries, the ability of our Holding Company to pay dividends, repurchase our shares or to repay our indebtedness depends upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends to our Holding Company. Dividends paid by these subsidiaries are subject to limits imposed by federal and state law. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries and it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. Dividends from subsidiaries are an important source of funds to pay dividends on common stock. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank subsidiaries and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the Company. In the event its subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends to the Company, it may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on common stock. Dividends are subject to determination and declaration by our board of directors, which takes into account many factors including, but not limited to, applicable state and federal regulatory limitations. The Company has suspended quarterly dividends on its common 28 Table of Contents shares. There is no assurance that we will reinstate our dividend payments in the future. For more information regarding regulatory dividend payout restrictions, see the discussion in Part I, Item 1 captioned “Dividends.” Critical Tax and Accounting Policies New accounting or tax pronouncements or interpretations may be issued by the accounting profession, regulators or other government bodies which could change existing accounting methods. Changes in accounting methods could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Current accounting and tax rules, standards, policies, and interpretations influence the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as the bankruptcy of major U.S. companies, have resulted in legislators, regulators, and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and various taxing authorities, responding by adopting and/or proposing substantive revisions to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting standards may adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. For information regarding the risks the Company faces with respect to its critical accounting policies, see the discussion in Part II, Item 7, captioned “Critical Accounting Policies”. Information Systems We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Internal Controls Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Attraction and Retention of Key Personnel Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. In our experience, it can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in executing our strategy. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Operational Risks We are subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Anti-Takeover Provisions Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Delaware law could have the effect of discouraging takeover attempts which certain stockholders might deem to be in their interest. These anti-takeover provisions may make us a less attractive target for a takeover bid or merger, potentially depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares of common stock at a premium over prevailing market prices as a result of a takeover bid or merger. 29 Table of Contents Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts of War or Terrorism and Other External Events An economic downturn, and the negative economic effects caused by terrorist attacks, potential attacks and other destabilizing events, would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits, and demand for our financial products such as loans and could cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. High inflation, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, an escalation of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, increased unemployment, changes in securities markets and other factors could have a negative impact on the economy of the Upper Midwest regions in which we operate. A sustained economic downturn in our markets would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio by impacting the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and may reduce the level of deposits in our banking subsidiaries and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A sustained economic downturn could also have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services. The concentration of our assets and operations in Michigan makes us sensitive to changes in economic, demographic, and regulatory conditions there. The economy in our markets relies heavily on the performance of the manufacturing sector in general and the automobile industry specifically. Declining vehicle production, foreign competition, higher fuel prices, tighter credit availability and continued supply rationalization have contributed to significant job losses in the automotive sector in recent years, and this trend is expected to continue. The current economic downturn in our markets has led to significant deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio by adversely affecting the ability of our customers to repay loans and reducing the value of the collateral securing loans we have extended. The cumulative effect of these matters on our results of operations and financial condition would likely be adverse and material. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 