Risk Factors You should carefully review the following risk factors together with the other information contained in this annual report before making an investment decision. Our financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by each of these risks. The market price of our ADSs may decline as a result of each of these risks and investors may lose the value of their investment in whole or in part. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business and your investment. Risks arising from the financial markets The share price of Allianz SE has been and may continue to be volatile. The share price of Allianz SE has been volatile in the past, in particular over the last year. The share price and trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due in part to the high volatility in the securities markets generally, and in financial institutions’ shares in particular, as well as developments which impact our financial results. Factors other than our financial results that may affect our share price include but are not limited to: market expectations of the performance and capital adequacy of financial institutions generally; investor perception of and the actual performance of other financial institutions; investor perception of the success and impact of our strategy; a downgrade or rumored downgrade of our credit ratings; potential litigation or regulatory action involving the Allianz Group or any of the industries we have exposure to through our insurance, banking and asset management activities; announcements concerning the bankruptcy or other similar reorganization proceedings involving, or any investigations into the accounting practices of, other insurance or reinsurance companies, banks or asset management companies; and general market volatility and liquidity conditions. Allianz Group’s financial condition, liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital may be significantly affected by adverse developments in the capital and credit markets. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than eighteen months. In the second half of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. The ability of Allianz Group to meet its financing needs in this environment depends on the availability of funds in the international capital markets. The financing of Allianz Group’s activities includes, among other means, funding through commercial paper facilities and medium- and long-term debt issuances. A sustained break-down of such markets could have a materially adverse impact on the availability and cost of funding as well as on the refinancing structure of Allianz Group. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, the ability of Allianz Group to meet its financial needs also depends on the availability of funds across the Group (e.g., in the form of intra-Group loans or an international cash pooling infrastructure). A worldwide persistent collapse of financial markets and downturn affecting many of the Group’s operating entities, however, may reduce the Group’s flexibility in internally transferring funds. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to: replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy regulatory capital requirements; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As 7 Table of Contents such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter duration securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition and regulatory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. Furthermore, a limited amount of Allianz Group’s funds is invested in private equity or other alternative assets classes. The value of these investments may be impacted by the current turbulence in the financial markets. Therefore, it may be difficult to renew the debt structure of leveraged investments. The Allianz Group has been and may continue to be adversely affected by ongoing turbulence and volatility in the world’s financial markets and the economy generally, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in Germany and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced in the global capital markets that started in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased throughout 2008 and continues in 2009. The crisis in the mortgage market in the United States, triggered by a serious deterioration of credit quality, led to a revaluation of credit risks. These conditions have resulted in greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and overall shortage of liquidity and tightening of financial markets throughout the world. In addition, the prices for many types of asset-backed securities (ABS) and other structured products have significantly deteriorated. Some of those markets are not working any longer or have ceased to exist entirely. These concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of fixed-income securities, including those rated investment grade, the international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors. As a result, the market for fixed-income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. International equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers, including ourselves, that have exposure to the real estate, mortgage and credit markets particularly affected. These events and the continuing market upheavals have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on us, in part, because our large investment portfolio and our former banking subsidiary, Dresdner Bank, had exposure to U.S. mortgage-related structured investment products, including subprime, midprime and prime residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), monoline insurer guarantees, structured investment vehicles (SIVs) and other investments. As a result, we recorded significant negative revaluations in 2007 and 2008 on the investment portfolio of Dresdner Bank, and in connection with our sale of Dresdner Bank to Commerzbank, we have retained exposure to certain of these types of assets, including Dresdner Bank-related CDOs with a face value of €2 billion, which we acquired for approximately €1.1 billion. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not incur further impairments of these assets. For details regarding the impact of the financial market crisis on the Allianz Group’s 2008 results and its ongoing exposure, please refer to “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Executive Summary—Impact of the financial markets turbulence.” In addition, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States and other regions have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy in general and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a substantial economic slowdown and fears of a potential global recession. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. In addition, we may 8 Table of Contents experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Moreover, we are a significant writer of unit-linked and other investment-oriented products, for which sales have decreased due to customer concerns regarding their exposure to the financial markets. Adverse changes in the economy could affect our earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and shareholders’ equity. Interest rate volatility may adversely affect Allianz Group’s results of operations. Changes in prevailing interest rates (including changes in the difference between the levels of prevailing short- and long-term rates) may adversely affect Allianz Group’s insurance, asset management, banking and corporate results. Over the past several years and in particular during the recent global credit crisis, movements in both short- and long-term interest rates have affected the level and timing of recognition of gains and losses on securities held in Allianz Group’s various investment portfolios. An increase in interest rates could substantially decrease the value of Allianz Group’s fixed-income portfolio, and any unexpected change in interest rates could materially adversely affect Allianz Group’s bond and interest rate derivative positions. Results of Allianz Group’s asset management business may also be affected by movements in interest rates, as management fees are generally based on the value of assets under management, which fluctuate with changes in the level of interest rates. The short-term impact of interest rate fluctuations on Allianz Group’s life/health insurance business may be reduced in part by products designed to partly or entirely transfer Allianz Group’s exposure to interest rate movements to the policyholder. While product design reduces Allianz Group’s exposure to interest rate volatility, changes in interest rates will impact this business to the extent they result in changes to current interest income, impact the value of Allianz Group’s fixed-income portfolio, and affect the levels of new product sales or surrenders of business in force. In addition, reductions in the investment income below the rates prevailing at the issue date of the policy, or below the regulatory minimum required rates in countries such as Germany and Switzerland, would reduce or eliminate the profit margins on the life/health insurance business written by Allianz Group’s life/health subsidiaries to the extent the maturity composition of the assets does not match the maturity composition of the insurance obligations they are backing. We are exposed to significant market risks that could impair the value of Allianz Group’s portfolio and adversely impact Allianz Group’s financial position and results of operations. Allianz Group holds a significant equity portfolio, which represented approximately 9.1% of Allianz Group’s financial assets at December 31, 2008, excluding financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value through income. Volatility in equity markets, which have reached unprecedented levels in recent months, affect the market value and liquidity of these holdings. Allianz Group also has real estate holdings in its investment portfolio, the value of which is likewise exposed to changes in real estate market prices and volatility. Most of Allianz Group’s financial assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value, including trading assets and liabilities, financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through income, and securities available-for-sale. Changes in the value of securities held for trading purposes and financial assets designated at fair value through income are recorded through Allianz Group’s consolidated income statement. Changes in the market value of securities available-for-sale are recorded directly in Allianz Group’s consolidated shareholders’ equity. Available-for-sale equity and fixed-income securities, as well as securities classified as held-to-maturity, are reviewed regularly for impairment, with write-downs to fair value charged to income if there is objective evidence that the cost may not be recovered. Refer to “Operating and Financial Review—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information concerning Allianz Group’s significant accounting and valuation policies. As a result of the world financial crisis, which has been characterized by significant declines of market prices of securities and other financial assets, we have recorded substantial impairments, 9 Table of Contents which have adversely affected our results of operations, shareholders’ equity and financial position. We also hold interests in a number of financial institutions as part of our portfolio, which have been particularly exposed to the uncertain current market conditions affecting the financial services sector generally. Until the global economic environment improves, there can be no assurance that we will not continue to incur similar significant impairments on the value of the securities and other financial assets that we hold. We have significant counterparty risk exposure, which could adversely affect Allianz Group. We are subject to a variety of counterparty risks, including: General Credit Risks. Third-parties that owe us money, securities or other assets may not pay or perform under their obligations. These parties include the issuers whose securities we hold, borrowers under loans made, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps, credit default and other derivative contracts, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries. As a result, defaults by one or more of these parties on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, operational failure or other reasons, or even rumors about potential defaults by one or more of these parties or regarding the financial services industry generally, could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. We also have exposure to a number of financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and equity investments. There is no assurance that losses on, or impairments to the carrying value of, these assets would not materially and adversely affect our business or results of operations. Reinsurers. We transfer our exposure to certain risks in our property-casualty and life/health insurance business to others through reinsurance arrangements. Under these arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of Allianz Group’s losses and expenses associated with reported and unreported losses in exchange for a portion of policy premiums. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on general market conditions and may vary significantly from time to time. Any decrease in the amount of Allianz Group’s reinsurance will increase its risk of loss. When we obtain reinsurance, we are still liable for those transferred risks if the reinsurer cannot meet its obligations. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Therefore, the inability or unwillingness of Allianz Group’s reinsurers to meet their financial obligations, or the insolvency of Allianz Group reinsurers, could materially affect Allianz Group’s results of operations. Although Allianz Group conducts periodic reviews of the financial statements and reputations of its reinsurers, including, and as appropriate, requiring letters of credit, deposits or other financial collaterals to further minimize its exposure to credit risk, reinsurers may become financially unsound by the time they are called upon to pay amounts due. Changes in value relative to the Euro of non-Euro zone currencies in which we generate revenues and incur expenses could adversely affect our reported earnings and cash flow. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in Euro. However, a significant portion of the revenues and expenses from our subsidiaries outside the Euro zone, including in the United States, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, originates in currencies other than the Euro. We expect this trend to continue as we expand our business into growing non-Euro zone markets. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 38.6% of our gross premiums written in our property-casualty segment and 26.8% of our statutory premiums in our life/health segment originated in currencies other than the Euro. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2008, 59.0% of the third-party assets under management in the Asset Management segment are in the United States. As a result, although our non-Euro zone subsidiaries generally record their revenues and expenses in the same currency, changes in the exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies into Euro may adversely affect our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Risks arising from the nature of our business Loss reserves for Allianz Group’s property-casualty insurance and reinsurance policies are based on estimates as to future claims liabilities. Adverse developments relating to claims could lead to further reserve additions and materially adversely impact Allianz Group’s results of operations. In accordance with industry practice and accounting and regulatory requirements, Allianz Group establishes reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses related to its property-casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses, including property-casualty business in run-off. Reserves are based on estimates of future payments that will be made in respect of claims, including expenses relating to such claims. Such estimates are made both on a case-by-case basis, based on the facts and circumstances available at the time the reserves are established, as well as in respect of losses that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) to the Allianz Group. These reserves represent the estimated ultimate cost necessary to bring all pending reported and IBNR claims to final settlement. Reserves, including IBNR reserves, are subject to change due to a number of variables that affect the ultimate cost of claims, such as changes in the legal environment, results of litigation, changes in medical costs, costs of repairs and other factors such as inflation and exchange rates, and Allianz Group’s reserves for asbestos and environmental and other latent claims are particularly subject to such variables. Allianz Group’s results of operations depend significantly upon the extent to which Allianz Group’s actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions Allianz Group uses in setting the prices for products and establishing the liabilities for obligations for technical provisions and claims. To the extent that Allianz Group’s actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions used in establishing such liabilities, Allianz Group may be required to increase its reserves, which may materially adversely affect its results of operations. Established loss reserves estimates are periodically adjusted in the ordinary course of settlement, using the most current information available to management, and any adjustments resulting from changes in reserve estimates are reflected in current results of operations. Allianz Group also conducts reviews of various lines of business to consider the adequacy of reserve levels. Based on current information available to us and on the basis of Allianz Group’s internal procedures, Allianz Group’s management considers that Allianz Group’s reserves are adequate at December 31, 2008. However, because the establishment of reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses is an inherently uncertain process, there can be no assurance that ultimate losses will not materially exceed the established reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses and have a material adverse effect on Allianz Group’s results of operations. Actuarial experience and other factors could differ from that assumed in the calculation of life/health actuarial reserves and pension liabilities. The assumptions Allianz Group makes in assessing its life/health insurance reserves may differ from what we experience in the future. Allianz Group derives its life/health insurance reserves using “best estimate” actuarial practices and assumptions. These assumptions include the assessment of the long-term development of interest rates, investment returns, the allocation of investments between equity, fixed-income and other categories, policyholder bonus rates (some of which are guaranteed), mortality and morbidity rates, policyholder lapses and future expense levels. Allianz Group monitors its actual experience of these assumptions and to the extent that it considers that this experience will continue in the longer term it refines its long-term assumptions. Similarly, estimates of Allianz Group’s own pension obligations necessarily depend on assumptions concerning future actuarial, demographic, macroeconomic and financial markets developments. Changes in any such assumptions may lead to changes in the estimates of life/health insurance reserves or pension obligations. We have a significant portfolio of contracts with guaranteed investment returns, including endowment and annuity products for the German market as well as certain guaranteed contracts in other markets. The amounts payable by us at maturity of an endowment policy in Germany and in certain other markets include a “guaranteed benefit,” an amount that, in practice, is equal to a legally mandated maximum rate of return on actuarial reserves. If interest rates decline to historically low levels for a long period, we could be required to provide additional funds to 11 Table of Contents Allianz Group’s life/health subsidiaries to support their obligations in respect of products with higher guaranteed returns, or increase reserves in respect of such products, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on Allianz Group’s results of operations. In the United States, in particular in our variable and fixed-indexed annuity products, and to a lesser extent in Europe and Asia we have a portfolio of contracts with guaranteed investment returns tied to equity markets. We enter into derivative contracts as a means of mitigating the risk of investment returns underperforming guaranteed returns. However, there can be no assurance that the hedging arrangements will satisfy the returns guaranteed to policyholders, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on Allianz Group’s results of operations. For example, in 2008, our US variable annuity business experienced a negative impact of higher guarantee reserves, net of hedging and DAC amortization, of approximately USD -238mn. If our asset management business underperforms, it may experience a decline in assets under management and related fee income. While the assets under management in our asset management segment include a significant amount of funds related to our insurance operations, third-party assets under management represent the majority. Results of our asset management activities are affected by share prices, share valuation, interest rates and market volatility. In addition, third-party funds are subject to withdrawal in the event our investment performance is not competitive with other asset management firms. Accordingly, fee income from the asset management business might decline if the level of our third-party assets under management were to decline due to investment performance or otherwise. Risks arising from the environment and the geopolitical situation Allianz Group’s financial results may be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of catastrophes. Portions of Allianz Group’s property-casualty insurance may cover losses from unpredictable events such as hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, earthquakes, fires, industrial explosions, freezes, riots, floods and other man-made or natural disasters, including acts of terrorism. The incidence and severity of these catastrophes in any given period are inherently unpredictable. Although the Allianz Group monitors its overall exposure to catastrophes and other unpredictable events in each geographic region, each of Allianz Group’s subsidiaries independently determines, within the Allianz Group’s limit framework, its own underwriting limits related to insurance coverage for losses from catastrophic events. We generally seek to reduce Allianz Group’s potential losses from these events through the purchase of reinsurance, selective underwriting practices and by monitoring risk accumulation. However, such efforts to reduce exposure may not be successful and claims relating to catastrophes may result in unusually high levels of losses and could have a material adverse effect on Allianz Group’s financial position or results of operations. Increased geopolitical risks following the terrorist attack of September 11, 2001, and any future terrorist attacks, could have a continuing negative impact on our businesses. After September 11, 2001, several terror insurance pools have been set up and reinsurers generally either put terrorism exclusions into their policies or drastically increased the price for such coverage. Although we have attempted to exclude terrorist coverage from policies we write, this has not been possible in all cases, including as a result of legislative developments such as the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act in the United States. Furthermore, even if terrorism exclusions are permitted in our primary insurance policies, we may still have liability for fires and other consequential damage claims that follow an act of terrorism itself. As a result we may have liability under primary insurance policies for acts of terrorism and may not be able to recover a portion or any of our losses from our reinsurers. At this time, we cannot assess the future effects of terrorist attacks, potential ensuing military and other responsive actions, and the possibility of further terrorist attacks, on our businesses. Such matters have significantly adversely affected general economic, market and political conditions, increasing many of the risks in our businesses noted in the previous risk factors. This may have a material negative effect on our businesses and results of 12 Table of Contents operations over time, in particular the value of our investments may be negatively affected by any market downturn after a terrorist attack. Risks arising from legal and regulatory conditions Changes in existing, or new, government laws and regulations, or enforcement initiatives in respect thereof, in the countries in which we operate may materially impact us and could adversely affect our business. Our insurance, asset management and banking businesses are subject to detailed, comprehensive laws and regulations as well as supervision in all the countries in which we do business. Changes in existing laws and regulations may affect the way in which we conduct our business and the products we may offer. Changes in regulations relating to pensions and employment, social security, financial services including reinsurance business, taxation, securities products and transactions may materially adversely affect our insurance, asset management and banking businesses by restructuring our activities, imposing increased costs or otherwise. Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects of the financial services business, which may include liquidity, capital adequacy and permitted investments, ethical issues, money laundering, “know your customer” rules, privacy, record keeping, and marketing and selling practices. Banking, insurance and other financial services laws, regulations and policies currently governing us and our subsidiaries may change at any time in ways which have an adverse effect on our business, and we cannot predict the timing or form of any future regulatory or enforcement initiatives in respect thereof. Also, bank regulators and other supervisory authorities in the EU, the United States and elsewhere continue to scrutinize payment processing and other transactions under regulations governing such matters as money-laundering, prohibited transactions with countries subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, appropriately any of these changes or initiatives, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to additional legal risk, including enforcement actions, fines and penalties. Despite our best efforts to comply with applicable regulations, there are a number of risks in areas where applicable regulations may be unclear or where regulators revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rulings. Regulators and other authorities have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could result, among other things, in significant adverse publicity and reputational harm, suspension or revocation of our licenses, cease-and-desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties or other disciplinary action that could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, in reaction to the crisis in the global financial markets, many countries’ governments and regulators have introduced various rescue schemes for the financial sector. As described further under “Item 4. Regulation and Supervision—Measures to Stabilize Financial Markets”, the impact of certain of these schemes may negatively affect the value of the securities of companies participating in these programs and thus have an adverse affect on Allianz as a holder of certain of these securities in its investment portfolio. Effective January 2005, reinsurance companies in Germany such as Allianz SE are subject to specific legal requirements regarding the assets covering their technical reserves. These assets are required to be appropriately diversified to prevent a reinsurer from relying excessively on any particular asset. The introduction of these requirements had anticipated the implementation of EU Reinsurance Directive (2005/68/EC) which was adopted in November 2005. All of the directive’s provisions were implemented in Germany effective June 2, 2007. Although Allianz SE currently meets the requirements, there can be no assurances as to the impact on Allianz SE of any future amendments to or changes in the interpretation of the laws and regulations regarding assets covering technical reserves of reinsurance companies, which could require Allianz SE to change the composition of its asset portfolio covering its technical reserves or take other appropriate measures. In addition, discussions on a new solvency regime for insurance companies in the EU (Solvency II) are ongoing. As those discussions are not yet finalized, its potential future impact for capital requirements can not currently be assessed. For more information, refer to “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Outlook”. 13 Table of Contents In addition, changes to tax laws may affect the attractiveness of certain of our products that currently receive favorable tax treatment. Governments in jurisdictions in which we do business may consider changes to tax laws that could adversely affect such existing tax advantages, and if enacted, could result in a significant reduction in the sale of such products. Our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to the Allianz Group, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally. Adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, financial reporting irregularities involving other large and well-known companies, increasing regulatory and law enforcement scrutiny of “know your customer”, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist-financing procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the mutual fund, banking and insurance industries, and litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure by the Allianz Group companies to comply with legal, regulatory and compliance requirements, could result in adverse publicity and reputational harm, lead to increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers, maintain access to the capital markets, result in law suits, enforcement actions, fines and penalties or have other adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. Other risks Many of our businesses are dependent on the financial strength and credit ratings assigned to us and our businesses by various rating agencies. Therefore, a downgrade in our ratings may materially adversely affect relationships with customers and intermediaries, negatively impact sales of our products and increase our cost of borrowing. Claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are each a factor in establishing the competitive position of insurers. Our financial strength rating has a significant impact on the individual ratings of key subsidiaries. If a rating of certain subsidiaries falls below a certain threshold, the respective operating business may be significantly impacted. A ratings downgrade, or the potential for such a downgrade, of the Allianz Group or any of our insurance subsidiaries could, among other things, adversely affect relationships with agents, brokers and other distributors of our products and services, thereby negatively impacting new sales, adversely affect our ability to compete in our markets and increase our cost of borrowing. In particular, in those countries where primary distribution of our products is done through independent agents, such as the United States, future ratings downgrades could adversely impact sales of our life insurance and annuity products. Any future ratings downgrades could also materially adversely affect our cost of raising capital, and could, in addition, give rise to additional financial obligations or accelerate existing financial obligations which are dependent on maintaining specified rating levels. Rating agencies can be expected to continue to monitor our financial strength and claims paying ability, and no assurances can be given that future ratings downgrades will not occur, whether due to changes in our performance, changes in rating agencies’ industry views or ratings methodologies, or a combination of such factors. Market and other factors could adversely affect goodwill, deferred policy acquisition costs and deferred tax assets; Allianz Group’s deferred tax assets are also potentially impacted by changes in tax legislation. Business and market conditions may impact the amount of goodwill Allianz Group carries in its consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2008, Allianz Group has recorded goodwill in an aggregate amount of €11,221 million, of which €6,325 million relates to its asset management business, €4,554 million relates to its insurance business, €199 million relates to its banking business, and €143 million relates to its corporate segment. As the value of certain parts of Allianz Group’s businesses, including in particular Allianz Group’s asset management business, are significantly impacted by such factors as the state of financial markets and ongoing operating performance, significant declines in financial markets or operating performance could also result in impairment of other 14 Table of Contents goodwill carried by us and result in significant write-downs, which could be material. No impairments were recorded for goodwill in 2008. The assumptions Allianz Group made with respect to recoverability of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) are also affected by such factors as operating performance and market conditions. DAC is incurred in connection with the production of new and renewal insurance business and is deferred and amortized generally in proportion to profits or to premium income expected to be generated over the life of the underlying policies, depending on the classification of the product. If the assumptions on which expected profits are based prove to be incorrect, it may be necessary to accelerate amortization of DAC, even to the extent of writing down DAC through impairments, which could materially adversely affect results of operations. No material impairments were recorded for DAC in 2008. As of December 31, 2008, Allianz Group had a total of €3,996 million in net deferred tax assets and €3,833 million in net deferred tax liabilities. The calculation of the respective tax assets and liabilities is based on current tax laws and IFRS and depends on the performance of the Allianz Group as a whole and certain business units in particular. At December 31, 2008, €1,863 million of deferred tax assets depended on the ability to use existing tax-loss carry forwards. Changes in German or other tax legislation or regulations or an operating performance below currently anticipated levels or any circumstances which result in an expiration of tax losses may lead to a significant impairment of deferred tax assets, in which case Allianz Group could be obligated to write-off certain tax assets. Tax assets may also need to be written- down if certain assumptions of profitability prove to be incorrect, as losses incurred for longer than expected will make the usability of tax assets more unlikely. Any such development may have a material adverse impact on Allianz Group’s net income. Following the sale of Dresdner Bank in January 2009, Allianz SE retains the contingent obligation to indemnify, under certain circumstances, the Federal Association of German Banks in connection with Dresdner Bank for the period Allianz SE owned Dresdner Bank. In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Joint Fund for Securing Customer Deposits (“Einlagensicherungsfonds”), Allianz SE has undertaken to indemnify the Federal Association of German Banks (“Bundesverband deutscher Banken e.V.”), the deposit protection association of privately-held German banks, for any losses it may incur by reason of supporting measures taken in favor of Oldenburgische Landesbank AG (OLB), Münsterländische Bank Thie & Co.KG and Bankhaus W. Fortmann & Söhner KG, which remain part of the Allianz Group following the sale of Dresdner Bank. For more general information on this deposit guarantee scheme, refer to “Item 4. Regulation and Supervision—Banking, Asset Management and Other Investment Services—Germany.” With the sale of Dresdner Bank becoming effective on January 12, 2009, Allianz terminated its indemnification undertaking issued in 2001 in favour of the Federal Association of German Banks with respect to Dresdner Bank since the date of sale. As a result, Allianz’s on-going indemnification obligation relates to supporting measures in favour of Dresdner Bank that are based on facts that were already existing at the time of the termination. 15 Table of Contents 