ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. There are a number of factors, many beyond our control, which may cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Some of these factors are described below under “Risk Factors,” while others having to do with operational, liquidity, interest rate and other variables, are described elsewhere in this report (see, for example, Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, “Liquidity and Capital Resources and Financial Condition” and Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about 13 Table of Contents Market Risk). Any factor described in this report could by itself, or together with one or more factors, have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. There may be factors not described in this report that could also cause results to differ from our expectations. Our operating results may be affected if actual insured losses differ from our loss reserves. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss by the insured and payment of that loss. To recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, we establish reserves as balance sheet liabilities representing estimates of amounts needed to pay reported and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expense. The process of estimating loss reserves is a difficult and complex exercise involving many variables and subjective judgments. As part of the reserving process, we review historical data and consider the impact of various factors such as: – trends in claim frequency and severity; – changes in operations; – emerging economic and social trends; – inflation; and – changes in the regulatory and litigation environments. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate, but not necessarily accurate, basis for predicting future events. There is no precise method for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. Our loss reserves also may be affected by court decisions that expand liability on our policies after they have been issued and priced. In addition, a significant jury award, or series of awards, against one or more of our insureds could require us to pay large sums of money in excess of our reserved amounts. Our policy to aggressively litigate claims against our insureds may increase the risk that we may be required to make such payments. To the extent loss reserves prove to be inadequate in the future, we would need to increase our loss reserves and incur a charge to earnings in the period the reserves are increased, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operation and the price of our common stock. If we are unable to maintain a favorable financial strength rating, it may be more difficult for us to write new business or renew our existing business. Independent rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers based upon criteria established by the agencies. Periodically the rating agencies evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of previously assigned ratings. The financial strength ratings assigned by rating agencies to insurance companies represent independent opinions of financial strength and ability to meet policyholder obligations and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Ratings by rating agencies are not ratings of securities or recommendations to buy, hold or sell any security. Our principal operating subsidiaries hold favorable financial strength ratings with A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s, Fitch and other rating agencies. Financial strength ratings are used by agents and customers as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. If our financial position deteriorates, we may not maintain our favorable financial strength ratings from the rating agencies. A downgrade or withdrawal of any such rating could limit or prevent us from writing desirable business. 14 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive environment. The property and casualty insurance business is highly competitive. We compete with large national property and casualty insurance companies, locally-based specialty companies, self-insured entities and alternative risk transfer arrangements (such as captive insurers and risk retention groups) whose activities are directed to limited markets. Competitors include companies that have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as mutual companies and similar companies not owned by shareholders whose return on equity objectives may be lower than ours. Competition in the property and casualty insurance business is based on many factors, including premiums charged and other terms and conditions of coverage, services provided, financial ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, claims services, reputation, perceived financial strength and the experience of the insurance company in the line of insurance to be written. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain business at current premium levels and reduce the profits that would otherwise arise from operations. Our revenues may fluctuate with insurance market conditions. We derive a significant portion of our insurance premium revenue from medical malpractice risks. Between 2000 and 2004, premium rates increased significantly which has improved our operating results. We believe competition has increased in the medical malpractice industry with the recent increases in premium rates. Should our competitors become less disciplined in their pricing, or more permissive in their terms, we may lose customers who base their purchasing decisions primarily on price because our policy is to charge adequate premiums on risks that meet our underwriting standards. We cannot predict whether, when or how market conditions will change, or the manner in which, or the extent to which any such changes may adversely impact the results of our operations. Our revenues may fluctuate with interest rates and investment results. We generally rely on the positive performance of our investment portfolio to offset insurance losses and to contribute to our profitability. As our investment portfolio is primarily comprised of interest-earning assets, prevailing economic conditions, particularly changes in market interest rates, may significantly affect our operating results. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of our interest-earning assets, which are principally comprised of fixed and adjustable-rate investment securities. Generally, the values of fixed-rate investment securities fluctuate inversely with changes in interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our stockholders’ equity, income and/or cash flows. Our total investments at December 31, 2005 were $2.631 billion, of which $2.403 billion was invested in fixed maturities. Unrealized pre-tax net investment losses on investments in fixed maturities were $15.2 million at December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2005, we held equity investments having a fair value of $10.0 million in an available-for-sale portfolio and held additional equity securities having a fair value of $5.2 million in a trading portfolio. The fair value of these securities fluctuates depending upon company specific and general market conditions. Any decline in the fair value of available-for-sale securities that we determine to be other-than-temporary will reduce our net income. Any changes in the fair values of trading securities, whether gains or losses, will be included in net income in the period changed. Changes in healthcare could have a material impact on our operations. We derive substantially all of our medical professional liability insurance premiums from physicians and other individual healthcare providers, physician groups and smaller healthcare facilities. Significant attention has been focused on reforming the healthcare industry at both the federal and state levels which could result in changes to how health care providers insure their medical malpractice risks. A broad range of healthcare reform measures has been suggested, and public discussion of such measures will likely continue in the future. Proposals have included, among others, spending limits, price controls, limiting increases in insurance premiums, limiting 15 Table of Contents the liability of doctors and hospitals for tort claims, imposing liability on institutions rather than physicians, and restructuring the healthcare insurance system. We cannot predict which, if any, reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on us. The adoption of certain of these proposals could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition to regulatory and legislative efforts, there have been significant market driven changes in the healthcare environment. In recent years, a number of factors related to the emergence of managed care have negatively impacted or threatened to impact the medical practice and economic independence of medical professionals. Medical professionals have found it more difficult to conduct a traditional fee-for-service practice and many have been driven to join or contractually affiliate with larger organizations. Such change and consolidation may result in the elimination of, or a significant decrease in, the role of the physician in the medical malpractice insurance purchasing decision. It could also result in greater emphasis on the role of professional managers, who may seek to purchase insurance on a price competitive basis, and who may favor insurance companies that are larger and more highly rated than we are. In addition, such change and consolidation could reduce our medical malpractice premiums as groups of insurance purchasers generally retain more risk or self insure. The movement from traditional fee-for-service practice to the managed care environment may also result in an increase in the liability profile of our insureds. The majority of our insured physicians practice in primary care specialties such as internal medicine, family practice, general practice and pediatrics. In the managed care environment, these primary care physicians are being required to take on the role of “gatekeeper” and restrain the use of specialty care by controlling access to specialists and by performing certain procedures that would customarily be performed by specialists in a fee-for-service setting. These practice changes may result in an increase in the claims frequency and severity experienced by primary care physicians and by us as their insurance carrier. We are a holding company and are dependent on dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries, which are subject to dividend restrictions. We are a holding company whose principal source of funds is cash dividends and other permitted payments from operating subsidiaries. If our subsidiaries are unable to make payments to us, or are able to pay only limited amounts, we may be unable to make payments on our indebtedness. The payment of dividends by these operating subsidiaries is subject to restrictions set forth in the insurance laws and regulations of their respective states of domicile, as discussed under Item 1, “Insurance Regulatory Matters” on page 10. 16 Table of Contents Regulatory requirements could have a material impact on our operations. Our insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. Regulation is intended for the benefit of policyholders rather than shareholders. In addition to the amount of dividends and other payments that can be made to a holding company by insurance subsidiaries, these regulatory authorities have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to: – licensing requirements; – trade practices; – capital and surplus requirements; – investment practices; and – rates charged to insurance customers. These regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on rate increases or other actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results. In addition, we may incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. Most states also regulate insurance holding companies like us in a variety of matters such as acquisitions, changes of control and the terms of affiliated transactions. Future legislative or regulatory changes may also adversely affect our business operations. The unpredictability of court decisions could have a material impact on our operations. The financial position of our insurance subsidiaries may also be affected by court decisions that expand insurance coverage beyond the intention of the insurer at the time it originally issued an insurance policy. In addition, a significant jury award, or series of awards, against one or more of our insureds could require us to pay large sums of money in excess of our reserve amounts. The passage of tort reform or other legislation, and the subsequent review of such laws by the courts could have a material impact on our operations. Tort reforms generally restrict the ability of a plaintiff to recover damages by, among other limitations, eliminating certain claims that may be heard in a court, limiting the amount or types of damages, changing statutes of limitation or the period of time to make a claim, and limiting venue or court selection. A number of states in which we do business have enacted, or are considering, tort reform legislation. Proposed federal tort reform legislation has failed to win Congressional approval to date. While the effects of tort reform would appear to be beneficial to our business generally, there can be no assurance that such reforms will be effective or ultimately upheld by the courts in the various states. Further, if tort reforms are effective, the business of providing professional liability insurance may become more attractive, thereby causing an increase in competition for us. In addition, there can be no assurance that the benefits of tort reform will not be accompanied by legislation or regulatory actions that may be detrimental to our business. For example, various states have established or are evaluating their intention to establish state sponsored malpractice insurance for their resident physicians that may eliminate targeted physicians from the private insurance market. Furthermore, insurance regulatory authorities may require premium rate limitations and expanded coverage requirements as well as other requirements in anticipation of the expected benefits of tort reform which may or may not be actually realized. Our geographic concentration ties our performance to the economic, regulatory and demographic conditions of the mid-Atlantic, Midwest and Southeast states. Our revenues and profitability are subject to prevailing economic, regulatory, demographic and other conditions in the states in which we write insurance. We currently write professional liability insurance in 22 states and the District of Columbia, with approximately 68% of gross premiums written in Alabama, Florida, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio in 2005. Because our business currently is concentrated in a limited number of markets, adverse developments that are 17 Table of Contents limited to a geographic area in which we do business may have a disproportionately greater affect on us than they would have if we did business in markets outside that particular geographic area. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of independent agents. We depend in part on the services of independent agents and brokers in the marketing of our insurance products. We face competition from other insurance companies for the services and allegiance of independent agents and brokers. These agents and brokers may choose to direct business to competing insurance companies or may direct less desirable risks to us. If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of risk underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. We may be unable to maintain current reinsurance coverage or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring coverage or to obtain new reinsurance coverage, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of our underwritten risk. We cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion, if at all, and, as a result, we could experience losses. We transfer some of our risks to reinsurance companies in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, it does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. If reinsurers fail to pay us or fail to pay on a timely basis, our financial results would be adversely affected. At December 31, 2005, we had reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses of approximately $327.7 million. The guaranty fund assessments that we are required to pay to state guaranty associations may increase and results of operations and financial condition could suffer as a result. Each state in which we operate has separate insurance guaranty fund laws requiring admitted property and casualty insurance companies doing business within their respective jurisdictions to be members of their guaranty associations. These associations are organized to pay covered claims (as defined and limited by the various guaranty association statutes) under insurance policies issued by insolvent insurance companies. Most guaranty association laws enable the associations to make assessments against member insurers to obtain funds to pay covered claims after a member insurer becomes insolvent. These associations levy assessments (up to prescribed limits) on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the covered lines of business in that state. Maximum assessments permitted by law in any one year generally vary between 1% and 2% of annual premiums written by a member in that state. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through surcharges on policyholders or through full or partial premium tax offsets, while other states permit recovery of assessments through the rate filing process. Property and casualty guaranty fund assessments incurred by us totaled $226,000 and $396,000 for 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our policy is to accrue the insurance insolvencies when notified of assessments. We are not able to reasonably estimate the liabilities of an insolvent insurer or develop a meaningful range of the insolvent insurer’s liabilities because of inadequate financial data with respect to the estate of the insolvent company as supplied by the guaranty funds. 18 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key employees. We are heavily dependent upon our senior management and the loss of services of our senior executives could adversely affect our business. Our success has been, and will continue to be, dependent on our ability to retain the services of existing key employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of key employees or senior managers, or the inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the quality and profitability of our business operations. Our board of directors is in the process of considering succession planning relating to our Chief Executive Officer. Dr. Crowe, our current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has indicated to the board that he has no immediate plans for retirement. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and state insurance law may impede attempts to replace or remove management or impede a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of inhibiting a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. Additionally, the board of directors may issue preferred stock, which could be used as an anti-takeover device, without a further vote of our stockholders. We currently have no preferred stock outstanding, and no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock. However, because the rights and preferences of any series of preferred stock may be set by the board of directors in its sole discretion, the rights and preferences of any such preferred stock may be superior to those of our common stock and thus may adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock. The voting structure of common stock and other provisions of our certificate of incorporation are intended to encourage a person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with, and to obtain the approval of, the board of directors in connection with a transaction. However, certain of these provisions may discourage our future acquisition, including an acquisition in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. As a result, stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. In addition, state insurance laws provide that no person or entity may directly or indirectly acquire control of an insurance company unless that person or entity has received approval from the insurance regulator. An acquisition of control of our insurance operating subsidiaries generally would be presumed if any person or entity acquires 10% (5% in Alabama) or more of its outstanding common stock, unless the applicable insurance regulator determines otherwise. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by stockholders. If a change in management or a change of control is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 19 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements Any written or oral statements made in this report may include forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are identified by words such as, but not limited to, “believe”, “expect”, “intend”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “project”, “hopeful”, “may”, “optimistic”, “preliminary”, “should”, “will” and other analogous expressions. Forward-looking statements relating to our business include among other things, statements concerning: liquidity and capital requirements, return on equity, financial ratios, net income, premiums, losses and loss reserves, premium rates and retention of current business, competition and market conditions, the expansion of product lines, the development or acquisition of business in new geographical areas, the availability of acceptable reinsurance, actions by regulators and rating agencies, payment or performance of obligations under indebtedness, payment of dividends, and other matters. Risks that could adversely affect our operations or cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results include, but are not limited to, the following: – general economic conditions, either nationally or in our market area, that are worse than anticipated; – regulatory and legislative actions or decisions that adversely affect business plans or operations; – price competition; – inflation and changes in the interest rate environment, the performance of financial markets and/or changes in the securities markets that adversely affect the fair value of investments or operations; – changes in laws or government regulations affecting medical professional liability insurance and practice management and financial services; – changes to ratings assigned by A.M. Best, S&P, Fitch or other rating agencies; – the effect of managed healthcare; – uncertainties inherent in the estimate of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and reinsurance and changes in the availability, cost, quality, or collectibility of reinsurance; – significantly increased competition among insurance providers and related pricing weaknesses in some markets; – changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by regulatory agencies and the Financial Accounting Standards Board; and – changes in our organization, compensation and benefit plans. – our ability to achieve continued growth through expansion in other states or through acquisitions or business combinations. Risks that could adversely affect our proposed merger with PIC Wisconsin include but are not limited to the following: – the business of ProAssurance and PIC Wisconsin may not be combined successfully, or such combination may take longer to accomplish than expected; – the cost savings from the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; – operating costs, customer loss and business disruption following the merger, including adverse effects on relationships with employees, may be greater than expected; 20 Table of Contents — governmental approvals of the merger may not be obtained or adverse regulatory conditions may be imposed in connection with governmental approvals of the merger; — there may be restrictions on our ability to achieve continued growth through expansion in to other states or through acquisitions or business combinations; and — the stockholders of PIC wisconsin may fail to approve the merger. Because these forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, and the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. For additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please see “Risk Factors” beginning on page 13. 21 Table of Contents GLOSSARY OF SELECTED INSURANCE AND RELATED FINANCIAL TERMS In an effort to help our investors and other interested parties better understand our report, we are providing a Glossary of Selected Insurance Terms. These definitions are taken from recognized industry sources such as A. M. Best and The Insurance Information Institute. This list is intended to be informative and explanatory, but we do not represent that it is a comprehensive glossary. Accident year The accounting period in which an insured event becomes a liability of the insurer. Admitted company; admitted basis An insurance company licensed and authorized to do business in a particular state. An admitted company doing business in a state is said to operate on “an admitted basis” and is subject to all state insurance laws and regulations pertaining to its operations. (See: Non-admitted company) Adverse selection The tendency of those exposed to a higher risk to seek more insurance coverage than those at a lower risk. Insurers react either by charging higher premiums or not insuring at all, as in the case of floods. Adverse selection can be seen as concentrating risk instead of spreading it. Agent An individual or firm that represents an insurer under a contractual or employment agreement for the purpose of selling insurance. There are two types of agents: independent agents, who represent one or more insurance companies but are not employed by those companies and are paid on commission, and exclusive or captive agents, who by contract are required to represent or favor only one insurance company and are either salaried or work on commission. Insurance companies that use employee or captive agents are called direct writers. Agents are compensated by the insurance company whose products they sell. By definition, with respect to a given insurer, an agent is not a broker (See: Brokers) Alternative markets Mechanisms used to fund self-insurance. This includes captives, which are insurers owned by one or more non-insurers to provide owners with coverage. Risk-retention groups, formed by members of similar professions or businesses to obtain liability insurance, are also a form of self-insurance. Assets; admitted; non-admitted Property owned, in this case by an insurance company, including stocks, bonds, and real estate. Because insurance accounting is concerned with solvency and the ability to pay claims, insurance regulators require a conservative valuation of assets, prohibiting insurance companies from listing assets on their balance sheets whose values are uncertain, such as furniture, fixtures, debit balances, and accounts receivable that are more than 90 days past due (these are non-admitted assets). Admitted assets are those assets that can be easily sold in the event of liquidation or borrowed against, and receivables for which payment can be reasonably anticipated. 22 Table of Contents Broker An intermediary between a customer and an insurance company. Brokers typically search the market for coverage appropriate to their clients and they usually sell commercial, not personal, insurance. Brokers are compensated by the insureds on whose behalf they are working. With respect to a given insurer, a broker is not an agent. (See: Agent) Bulk reserves Reserves for losses that have occurred but have not been reported as well as anticipated changes to losses on reported claims. Bulk reserves are the difference between (i) the sum of case reserves and paid losses and (ii) an actuarially determined estimate of the total losses necessary for the ultimate settlement of all reported and incurred but not reported claims, including amounts already paid. (See: Case Reserves) Capacity For an individual insurer, the maximum amount of premium or risk it can underwrite based on its financial condition. The adequacy of an insurer’s capital relative to its exposure to loss is an important measure of solvency. Capital Stockholder’s equity (for publicly-traded insurance companies) and policyholders’ surplus (for mutual insurance companies). Capital adequacy is linked to the riskiness of an insurer’s business. (See: Risk-Based Capital, Surplus, Solvency) Case reserves Reserves for future losses for reported claims as established by an insurer’s claims department. Casualty insurance Insurance which is primarily concerned with the losses caused by injuries to third persons (in other words, persons other than the policyholder) and the legal liability imposed on the insured resulting therefrom. (See: Professional liability insurance, Medical professional liability insurance) Catastrophe Term used for statistical recording purposes to refer to a single incident or a series of closely related incidents causing severe insured property losses totaling more than a given amount. Catastrophe reinsurance Reinsurance (insurance for insurers) for catastrophic losses. Cede, cedant; ceding company When a party reinsures its liability with another, it “cedes” business and is referred to as the “cedant” or “ceding company.” Claims-made policy; coverage A form of insurance that pays claims presented to the insurer during the term of the policy or within a specific term after its expiration. It limits liability insurers’ exposure to unknown future liabilities. Under a claims-made policy, an insured event becomes a liability when the event is first reported to the insurer. Combined ratio The sum of the underwriting expense ratio and net loss ratio, determined in accordance with either statutory accounting principles (SAP) or GAAP. 23 Table of Contents Commission Fee paid to an agent or insurance salesperson as a percentage of the policy premium. The percentage varies widely depending on coverage, the insurer, and the marketing methods. Direct premiums written Premiums charged by an insurer for the policies that it underwrites, excluding any premiums that it receives as a reinsurer. Direct writer(s) Insurance companies that sell directly to the public using exclusive agents or their own employees. Domestic insurance company Term used by a state to refer to any company incorporated there. Excess & Surplus Lines; Surplus lines Property/casualty insurance coverage that isn’t generally available from insurers licensed in the state (See: Admitted companies) and must be purchased from a “non-admitted company”. Examples include risks of an unusual nature that require greater flexibility in policy terms and conditions than exist in standard forms or where the highest rates allowed by state regulators are considered inadequate by admitted companies. Laws governing surplus lines vary by state. Excess coverage; excess limits An insurance policy that provides coverage limits above another policy with similar coverage terms, or above a self-insured amount. Extended Reporting Endorsement Also known as a “tail policy” or “tail premium.” Tail coverage provides protection for future claims filed after a claims-made policy has lapsed. Typically requires payment of an additional premium, the “tail premium.” “Tail coverage” may also be granted if the insured becomes disabled, dies or permanently retired from the covered occupation (i.e., the practice of medicine in medical liability policies.) Facultative reinsurance A generic term describing reinsurance where the reinsurer assumes all or a portion of a single risk. Each risk is separately evaluated and each contract is separately negotiated by the reinsurer. Frequency Number of times a loss occurs per unit of risk or exposure. One of the criteria used in calculating premium rates. Front, fronting A procedure in which a primary insurer acts as the insurer of record by issuing a policy, but then passes all or virtually all of the risk to a reinsurer in exchange for a commission. Often, the fronting insurer is licensed to do business in a state or country where the risk is located, but the reinsurer is not. The reinsurer in this scenario is often a captive or an independent insurance company that cannot sell insurance directly in a particular country. Gross premiums written Total premiums for direct insurance written and assumed reinsurance during a given period. The sum of direct and assumed premiums written. 24 Table of Contents Guaranty Fund; assessment(s) The mechanism by which solvent insurers ensure that some of the policyholder and third party claims against insurance companies that fail are paid. Such funds are required in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, but the type and amount of claim covered by the fund varies from state to state. Incurred but not reported (IBNR) Actuarially estimated reserves for estimated losses that have been incurred by insureds and reinsureds but not yet reported to the insurer or reinsurer including unknown future developments on losses which are known to the insurer or reinsurer. Insurance companies regularly adjust reserves for such losses as new information becomes available. Incurred losses Losses covered by the insurer within a fixed period, whether or not adjusted or paid during the same period, plus changes in the estimated value of losses from prior periods. Insolvent; insolvency Insurer’s inability to pay debts. Typically the first sign of problems is inability to pass the financial tests regulators administer as a routine procedure. (See: Risk-based capital) Investment income Income generated by the investment of assets. Insurers have two sources of income, underwriting (premiums less claims and expenses) and investment income. Liability insurance A line of casualty insurance for amounts a policyholder is legally obligated to pay because of bodily injury or property damage caused to another person. (See: Casualty insurance, Professional liability insurance, Medical professional liability insurance) Limits Maximum amount of insurance that can be paid for a covered loss. Long-tail; short-tail The long period of time between collecting the premium for insuring a risk and the ultimate payment of losses. This allows insurance companies to invest the premiums until losses are paid, thus producing a higher level of invested assets and investment income as compared to other lines of property and casualty business. Medical professional liability is considered a long tail line of insurance. Personal lines is primarily considered a short tail line of insurance due to shorter time periods between insuring the risk and the ultimate payment of claims. As a result, there is less time to invest premiums collected, which makes it necessary to achieve an underwriting profit in order to generate a satisfactory return on equity. (See: Medical professional liability, Professional liability) Loss adjustment expenses (LAE) The expenses of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the portion of general expenses allocated to claim settlement costs. Loss costs The portion of an insurance rate used to cover claims and the costs of adjusting claims. Insurance 25 Table of Contents companies typically determine their rates by estimating their future loss costs and adding a provision for expenses, profit, and contingencies. Loss ratio Percentage of each premium dollar an insurer spends on claims. Loss reserves Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims payments and the related expenses that the insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay in respect of insurance or reinsurance it has written. They represent a liability on the insurer’s balance sheet. Medical professional liability insurance Insurance against the legal liability of an insured (and against loss, damage or expense incidental to a claim of such liability) arising out of death, injury or disablement of a person as the result of negligent deviation from the standard of care or other misconduct in rendering professional service. NAIC The National Association of Insurance Commissioners is the organization of insurance regulators from the 50 states, the District of Columbia and the four U.S. territories. The NAIC provides a forum for the development of uniform policy when uniformity is appropriate. Net loss ratio The net loss ratio measures the ratio of net losses to earned premiums determined in accordance with SAP or GAAP. Net premium earned The portion of net premium written that is recognized for accounting purposes as income during a particular period. Equal to net premiums written plus the change in net unearned premiums during the period. Net premiums written Gross premiums written for a given period less premiums ceded to reinsurers during such period. Non-admitted company; basis Insurers licensed in some states, but not others. States where an insurer is not licensed call that insurer “non-admitted.” Non-admitted companies sell coverage that is unavailable from licensed insurers within a state and are generally exempt from most state laws and regulations related to rates and coverages. Policyholders of such companies generally do not have the same degree of consumer protection and financial recourse as policyholders of admitted companies. Non-admitted companies are said to operate on a “non-admitted” basis. Occurrence policy; coverage Insurance that pays claims arising out of incidents that occur during the policy term, even if they are filed many years later. Under an occurrence policy the insured event becomes a liability when the event takes place. Operating ratio The operating ratio is the combined ratio, less the ratio of investment income (exclusive of realized gains and losses) to net earned premiums, if determined in accordance with GAAP. While the combined ratio 26 Table of Contents strictly measures underwriting profitability, the operating ratio incorporates the effect of investment income. Policy A written contract for insurance between an insurance company and policyholder stating details of coverage. Premium The price of an insurance policy, typically charged annually or semiannually. Premiums written The total premiums on all policies written by an insurer during a specified period of time, regardless of what portions have been earned. Premium tax A state tax on premiums for policies issued in the state, paid by insurers. Primary Company In a reinsurance transaction, the insurance company that is reinsured. Professional liability insurance Covers professionals for negligence and errors or omissions that cause injury or economic loss to their clients. (See: Casualty insurance, Liability insurance, Medical professional liability insurance) Property/casualty insurance Covers damage to or loss of policyholders’ property and legal liability for damages caused to other people or their property. Rate The cost of insurance for a specific unit of exposure, such as for one physician. Rates are based on historical loss experience for similar risks and may be regulated by state insurance offices. Rating agencies These agencies assess insurers’ financial strength and viability to meet claims obligations. Some of the factors considered include company earnings, capital adequacy, operating leverage, liquidity, investment performance, reinsurance programs, and management ability, integrity and experience. A high financial rating is not the same as a high consumer satisfaction rating. Reinsurance Insurance bought by insurance companies. In a reinsurance contract the reinsurer agrees to indemnify another insurance or reinsurance company, the ceding company, against all or a portion of the insurance or reinsurance risks underwritten by the ceding company under one or more policies. Reinsurers may have their own reinsurers, called retrocessionaires. Reinsurers don’t pay policyholder claims. Instead, they reimburse insurers for claims paid. Reinsured layer; retained layer The retained layer is the cumulative portion of each loss, on a per-claim basis, which is less than an insurer’s reinsurance retention for a given coverage year. Likewise, the reinsured layer is the cumulative portion of each loss that exceeds the reinsurance retention. (See: Reinsurance, Retention) Reserves A company’s best estimate of what it will pay, at some point in the future, for claims for which it is currently responsible. 27 Table of Contents Retention The amount or portion of risk that an insurer retains for its own account. Losses in excess of the retention level up to the outer limit, if any, are paid by the reinsurer. In proportional treaties, the retention may be a percentage of the original policy’s limit. In excess of loss business, the retention is a dollar amount of loss, a loss ratio or a percentage. Return on Equity Net Income (or if applicable, Income from Continuing Operations) divided by the average of beginning and ending stockholders’ equity. This ratio measures a company’s overall after-tax profitability from underwriting and investment activity and shows how efficiently invested capital is being used. Risk-Based Capital (RBC) A regulatory measure of the amount of capital required for an insurance company, based upon the volume and inherent riskiness of the insurance sold, the composition of its investment portfolio and other financial risk factors. Higher-risk types of insurance, liability as opposed to property business, generally necessitate higher levels of capital. The NAIC’s RBC model law stipulates four levels of regulatory action with the degree of regulatory intervention increasing as the level of surplus falls below a minimum amount as determined under the model law. (See: NAIC) Risk management Management of the varied risks to which a business firm or association might be subject. It includes analyzing all exposures to gauge the likelihood of loss and choosing options to better manage or minimize loss. These options typically include reducing and eliminating the risk with safety measures, buying insurance, and self-insurance. Self-insurance The concept of assuming a financial risk oneself, instead of paying an insurance company to take it on. Every policyholder is a self-insurer in terms of paying a deductible and co-payments. Larger policyholders often self-insure frequent or predictable losses to avoid insurance overhead expenses. Severity The average claim cost, statistically determined by dividing dollars of losses by the number of claims. Solvent, solvency Insurance companies’ ability to pay the claims of policyholders. Regulations to promote solvency include minimum capital and surplus requirements, statutory accounting conventions, limits to insurance company investment and corporate activities, financial ratio tests, and financial data disclosure. Statutory Accounting Principles; SAP More conservative standards than under GAAP accounting rules, they are imposed by state laws that emphasize the present solvency of insurance companies. SAP helps ensure that the company will have sufficient funds readily available to meet all anticipated insurance obligations by recognizing liabilities earlier or at a higher value than GAAP and assets later or at a lower value. For example, SAP 28 Table of Contents requires that selling expenses be recorded immediately rather than amortized over the life of the policy. (See: Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, Admitted assets) Surplus; statutory surplus The excess of admitted assets over total liabilities (including loss reserves) that protects policyholders in case of unexpectedly high claims. “Statutory Surplus” is determined in accordance with Statutory Accounting Principles. Tail The period of time that elapses between the occurrence of the loss event and the payment in respect thereof. Third-party coverage Liability coverage purchased by the policyholder as a protection against possible lawsuits filed by a third party. The insured and the insurer are the first and second parties to the insurance contract. Treaty reinsurance The reinsurance of a specified type or category of risks defined in a reinsurance agreement (a ''treaty’’) between a primary insurer or other reinsured and a reinsurer. Typically, in treaty reinsurance, the primary insurer or reinsured is obligated to offer and the reinsurer is obligated to accept a specified portion of all such type or category of risks originally written by the primary insurer or reinsured. Underwriting The insurer’s or reinsurer’s process of reviewing applications submitted for insurance coverage, deciding whether to accept all or part of the coverage requested and determining the applicable premiums. Underwriting expense ratio The ratio of underwriting, acquisition and other insurance expenses incurred to net premiums earned (for statutory purposes, the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred to net premiums written.) Underwriting expenses The aggregate of policy acquisition costs, including commissions, and the portion of administrative, general and other expenses attributable to underwriting operations. Underwriting income; loss The insurer’s profit on the insurance sale after all expenses and losses have been paid, before investment income or income taxes. When premiums aren’t sufficient to cover claims and expenses, the result is an “underwriting loss.” Underwriting profit The amount by which net earned premiums exceed Underwriting Income; the sum of losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses (See: Underwriting Income) Unearned premium The portion of premium that represents the consideration for the assumption of risk in the future. Such premium is not yet earned since the risk has not yet been assumed. May also be defined as the pro-rata portion of written premiums that would be returned to policyholders if all policies were terminated by the insurer on a given date. 29 Table of Contents 