ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K before you decide to buy our common stock. It is possible that risks and uncertainties not listed below may arise or become material in the future and affect our business. A Prolonged Economic Downturn, Especially One Affecting Our Geographic Market Area, Could Continue to Materially Affect our Business and Financial Results. The United States economy entered a recession in the fourth quarter of 2007. Our principal market area, Northern Michigan, has also experienced an economic downturn, which has been more severe than than in the United States generally. Throughout the course of 2008, 2009 and 2010, economic conditions continued to worsen, due in large part to the fallout from the collapse of the sub-prime mortgage market. While we did not originate or invest in sub-prime mortgages, our lending business is tied, in large part, to the housing market. Declines in home prices, increases in foreclosures and higher unemployment have adversely affected the credit performance of real estate-related loans, resulting in the write-down of asset values. The continuing housing slump also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing, further declines in home prices, and increased delinquencies on our construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. Further, the ongoing concern about the stability of the financial markets in general has caused many lenders to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. These conditions may also cause a further reduction in loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. The Company's success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of Michigan and the specific local markets in which the Company operates. The local economic conditions in these local markets have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services as well as the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company's deposit funding sources. Economic conditions experienced in the State of Michigan have been more adverse than in the United States generally, and these conditions are not expected to significantly improve in the near future. Unemployment has increased significantly. A further economic downturn or continued weak business environment within Michigan could further negatively impact household and corporate incomes. A majority of the Company's loans are to individuals and businesses in Michigan. Consequently, any further or prolonged decline in Michigan’s economy could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. A significant further decline or a prolonged period without improvement in general economic conditions, whether caused by recession, inflation, unemployment, changes in securities markets, acts of terrorism, other international or domestic occurrences or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: · the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and · the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Like many savings institutions, our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid thereby requiring us to reinvest those cash flows at lower interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Management of Interest Rate Risk.” 34 In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, consisting of agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt obligations and municipal obligations, totaled $35.3 million. Unrealized net gains on these available-for-sale securities totaled $221,000 at December 31, 2010 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity using income simulation models that estimate the change in our net interest income over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net income at risk measures the risk of a decline in earnings due to potential short-term and long-term changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2010, the latest date for which such information is available, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the model projects that we would experience a 0.29% decrease in net interest income over the following 24 months, assuming a static balance sheet environment. As a Result of Our Previous Emphasis on Originating Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Business Loans, Our Credit Risk Has and Will Continue to Increase. Continued Weakness or a Deeper Downturn in the Real Estate Market and Local Economy Could Adversely Affect Our Earnings. At December 31, 2010, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $57.7 million, or 36.0% of our total loans, our portfolio of commercial business loans totaled $8.8 million, or 5.5% of our total loans, and our portfolio of commercial construction loans totaled $3.3 million or 2.0% of our total loans. These loans have increased as a percentage of our total loan portfolio in recent years and generally have more risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial business loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate or commercial business loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate or commercial business loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Because we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses because of the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any such increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. We Have Participated in Commercial Real Estate, Residential Real Estate and Construction Loans Secured by Real Estate Located Outside of Michigan, Which Expose Us to Increased Lending Risks. Beginning in 2007, because of weak market conditions and weak demand for loans in our primary market area, and in an effort to diversify our loan portfolio, we began participating in commercial real estate, residential real estate and construction loans originated by other financial institutions and secured by real estate located outside of Michigan. As of December 31, 2010, $11.7 million of our loans were participations in commercial real estate and construction loans secured by real estate outside of Michigan. As of December 31, 2010 $1.8 million of these loans were considered non-performing. Of our $2.1 million in loan charge-offs in 2010, $575,000 were loans secured by real estate located outside of Michigan. Such loans expose us to increased lending risk because, unlike loans that we originate in our market, we may be unfamiliar with the collateral securing such loans and the market conditions affecting the borrower, and we generally do not have face-to-face contact with the borrowers on such loans. 35 If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.77% of total loans and 42.85% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2010, compared to 2.09% of total loans and 31.05% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2009. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Financial Reform Legislation Recently Enacted by Congress Will, Among Other Things, Eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, Tighten Capital Standards, Create a New Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Result in New Laws and Regulations That Are Expected to Increase Our Costs of Operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act will eliminate our current primary federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and require the Bank to be regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks). The Dodd-Frank Act also authorizes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies, like the Company, in addition to bank holding companies which it currently regulates. Bank holding companies with assets of less than $500 million are exempt from these capital requirements. These capital requirements are substantially similar to the capital requirements currently applicable to the Bank, as described in “Supervision and Regulation—Federal Banking Regulation—Capital Requirements.” The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for insured depository institutions, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the proceeds of trust preferred securities are excluded from Tier 1 capital unless such securities were issued prior to May 19, 2010 by bank or savings and loan holding companies with less than $15 billion of assets. Savings and loan holding companies are subject to a five year transition period before the holding company capital requirements will become applicable. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as the Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The new legislation also weakens the federal preemption available for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act will increase stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation (although the Company will not be subject to this requirement until 2013) and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate and solicit votes for their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. It is difficult to predict at this time what impact the new legislation and implementing regulations will have on community banks, including the lending and credit practices of such banks. Moreover, many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are not yet in effect, and the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations over the next several years. Although the substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations, particularly those provisions relating to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and mutual holding company dividend waivers, will increase our operating and compliance costs and restrict our ability to pay dividends, respectively. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. 36 Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous Michigan-based banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities which provide financial services. Some of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions, have advantages of scale due to their size, or have cost advantages due to their tax status. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. Our Future Growth May Require Us to Raise Additional Capital in the Future, But That Capital May Not Be Available When It Is Needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We believe that our current capital levels will satisfy our regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest in our common stock could be diluted. We Have Suspended our Common Stock Cash Dividend. We suspended our quarterly dividend effective for the quarter ended December 31, 2008. We are dependent primarily upon the Bank for our earnings and funds to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends also is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any reinstatement of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank's earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered by our Board of Directors. 37 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 