D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report, before making an investment decision. We also may face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, which may impair our business. In general, you take more risk when you invest in the securities of issuers in emerging markets such as Argentina than when you invest in the securities of issuers in the United States. You should understand that an investment in our common shares and ADSs involves a high degree of risk, including the possibility of loss of your entire investment. Risks Relating to Argentina Argentina’s growth may not be sustainable. The Argentine economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized by periods of low or negative growth, high inflation and currency devaluation. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced a period of severe political, economic and social crisis, which caused a significant economic contraction and led to radical changes in government policies. Although the economy has recovered significantly since then, uncertainty remains as to whether the recent growth is sustainable, since it has depended, to a significant extent, on favorable exchange rates, high commodity prices and excess production capacity. The recovery, however, has resulted in inflation and has intensified the country’s need for capital investment, with many sectors, particularly the energy sector, operating near full capacity. Additionally, the global financial crisis and economic downturn of 2008 has had a significant adverse impact on the country’s performance and could remain a factor in the foreseeable future. In 2011, the Argentine GDP increased by 7.28%, according to data published by the National Institute of Statistics (“Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas y Censos” or the “INDEC”). For the six months ended June 30, 2012, GDP increased 1.17% relative to the same period the prior year, according to data published by the INDEC. As of June 30, 2012, the Monthly Economic Activity Estimator (“Estimador Mensual de Actividad Económica” or the “EMAE”) increased 0.89%, relative to the same period the prior year, according to data published by the INDEC. The economic and financial crisis in certain European countries, the United States, and certain other important commercial partners of Argentina, may imply a decline in the international demand for Argentine products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the resulted of operations. Moreover, the country’s relative stability since 2002 has been affected recently by increased political tension and government intervention in the economy. Our business depends to a significant extent on macroeconomic and political conditions in Argentina. We cannot assure you that Argentina’s recent growth will continue. Deterioration of the country’s economy would likely have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Content Continuing inflation may have an adverse effect on the economy. The devaluation of the Peso since January 2002 created pressures on the domestic price system that generated high inflation throughout 2002, before inflation substantially stabilized in 2003. In fiscal years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, inflation according to the INDEC was 7.2%, 8.5%, 11.0%, 9.7% and 9.90%, respectively, in part due to actions implemented by the Argentine government to control inflation, including limitations on exports and price arrangements agreed upon with private companies. The uncertainty surrounding future inflation may impact the country’s growth. In the past, inflation has undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to create conditions conducive to growth. A return to a high inflation environment would adversely affect the availability of long-term credit and the real estate market and may also affect Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the Peso devaluation and negatively impacting the level of economic activity and employment. Additionally, high inflation would also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness and adversely affect economic activity, employment, real salaries, consumption and interest rates. In addition, the dilution of the positive effects of the Peso devaluation on the export-oriented sectors of the Argentine economy will decrease the level of economic activity in the country. In turn, a portion of the Argentine debt is adjusted by the Coefciente de Estabilización de Referencia, (the “Stabilization Coefficient Index, or “CER Index”), a currency index that is strongly tied to inflation. Therefore, any significant increase in inflation would cause an increase in Argentina’s debt and, consequently, the country`s financial obligation. If inflation remains high or continues to rise, Argentina’s economy may be negatively impacted and our business could be adversely affected. There are concerns about the accuracy of Argentina’s official inflation statistics. In January 2007, the INDEC modified its methodology used to calculate the consumer price index, which is calculated as the monthly average of a weighted basket of consumer goods and services that reflects the pattern of consumption of Argentine households. Several economists, as well as the international and Argentine press, have suggested that this change in methodology was related to the policy of the Argentine government to curb the increase of inflation and consequently reduce payments on the outstanding inflation-linked bonds issued by Argentina. At the time that the INDEC adopted this change in methodology the Argentine government also replaced several key officers at the INDEC, prompting complaints of governmental interference from the technical staff at the INDEC. In addition, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) requested to clarify its inflation rates several times. In June 2008, the INDEC published a new consumer price index which eliminated nearly half of the items included in previous surveys and introduced adjustable weightings for several items as fruits, vegetables and clothing, which have seasonal cost variations. The INDEC has indicated that it based its evaluation of spending habits on a national household consumption survey from 2004 to 2005, in addition to other sources. The aforementioned 2008 new consumer price index has been criticized by economists and investors after its debut report found prices rising well below expectations. These events have negatively affected the credibility of the consumer price index published by the INDEC, as well as other indexes published by the INDEC which require the consumer price index for their own calculation, including the poverty index, the unemployment index and real gross domestic product index. Argentina’s inflation rate may be significantly higher than the rates indicated by official reports. In December 2010, the Argentine government agreed to meet with an official IMF team which arrived in Argentina to assist the INDEC with the development of a new national price index. In April 2011, the IMF team completed the second technical mission to assist on the design and methodology of a new national price index. As of the date of this annual report, Argentina´s government is intended to implement a new consumer price index before February, 2013. If the investigation carried out by the IMF results in a finding that the methodologies used to calculate the Consumer Price Index or other INDEC indexes derived from the Consumer Price Index were not accurate, or if it is determined that it is necessary to correct the Consumer Price Index and the other INDEC indexes derived from the Consumer Price Index as a result of the methodology used by INDEC, there could be a significant decrease in confidence in the Argentine economy. Given the limited credit available to emerging market nations as a result of the global economic crisis, the ability to access credit in the capital markets could be limited by the uncertainty relating to the inaccuracy of the economic indexes and rates in question which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions. Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth. In 2005, Argentina restructured part of its sovereign debt that had been in default since the end of 2001. As a result of this restructuring, the Argentine government announced that, it had approximately US$ 129.2 billion in total gross public debt as of December 31, 2005. Certain bondholders that did not participate in that restructuring, mainly from the United States, Italy and Germany, filed legal actions against Argentina to collect on the defaulted bonds. Many of these proceedings are still pending as of this date and holdout creditors may initiate new suits in the future. On January 3, 2006, Argentina repaid in full its debt of approximately US$ 9.8 billion with the IMF. In September 2008, Argentina announced its intention to cancel its external public debt to Paris Club creditor nations using reserves of the Central Bank in an amount equal to approximately US$ 6.5 billion. However, as of the date of this Annual Report, the National Government has not yet cancelled such debt. In late 2010, Argentina´s government announced a new round of negotiations with the Paris Club to cancel such debt, which then totaled approximately US$ 8.0 billion, without the intervention of the IMF. In addition, foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies have filed claims before the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (“ICSID”) alleging that certain government measures adopted during the country’s 2001 crisis were inconsistent with the fair and equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. Since May 2005, the ICSID tribunals have issued several awards against Argentina. Only the cases “CMS v. Argentina”, “Azurix v. Argentina” and “Vivendi v. Argentina” are currently final. This decisions required the Argentine government to pay US$ 133.2 million, US$ 165.2 million and US$ 105 million, respectively. As of the date of this annual report, Argentina has not yet paid the amounts referred to above. On April 30, 2010, Argentina launched a new debt exchange to holders of the securities issued in the 2005 debt exchange and to holders of the securities that were eligible to participate in the 2005 debt exchange (other than brady bonds) to exchange such debt for new securities and, in certain cases, a cash payment. As a result of the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers, Argentina restructured over 91% of the defaulted debt eligible for the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers. The creditors who did not participate in the 2005 or 2010 exchange offers may continue their pursuit of a legal action against Argentina for the recovery of debt, which could adversely affect Argentina’s access to the international capital markets. Argentina’s past default and its failure to restructure completely its remaining sovereign debt and fully negotiate with the holdout creditors may limit Argentina’s ability to reenter the international capital markets. Litigation initiated by holdout creditors as well as ICSID claims have resulted and may continue to result in judgments and awards against the Argentine government which, if not paid, could prevent Argentina from obtaining credit from multilateral organizations. Judgment creditors have sought and may continue to seek to attach or enjoin assets of Argentina. In addition, various creditors have organized themselves into associations to engage in lobbying and public relations concerning Argentina’s default on its public indebtedness. Such groups have over the years unsuccessfully urged passage of federal and New York state legislation directed at Argentina’s defaulted debt and aimed at limiting Argentina’s access to the U.S. capital markets. Although neither the United States Congress nor the New York state legislature has taken any significant steps towards adopting such legislation, we can make no assurance that the enactement of a new legislation or other political actions designed to limit Argentina’s access to capital markets will not take effect. In April 2010, a Court of New York granted an attachment over reserves of the Argentine Central Bank in the United States requested by creditors of Argentina on the basis that the Central Bank was its alter ego. In July 2011, an appeals court reserved that ruling, stating that the assets of the Central Bank were protected by law. Plaintiffs have petitioned the United States Supreme Court to review the appeals court decision. As of the date of this annual report, the United States Supreme Court has not addressed the case. As a result of Argentina’s default and its aftermath, the government may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster economic growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy and, consequently, our businesses and results of operations. Furthermore, Argentina’s inability to obtain credit in international markets could have a direct impact on our own ability to access international credit markets to finance our operations and growth. Significant fluctuation in the value of the Peso may adversely affect the Argentine economy as well as our financial performance. Despite the positive effects of the real depreciation of the Peso in 2002 on the competitiveness of certain sectors of the Argentine economy, it has also had a far-reaching negative impact on the Argentine economy and on businesses and individuals’ financial condition. The devaluation of the Peso has had a negative impact on the ability of Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, initially led to very high inflation, significantly reduced real wages, had a negative impact on businesses whose success is dependent on domestic market demand, such as utilities and the financial industry, and adversely affected the government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. If the Peso devalues significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences on our business. Moreover, it would likely result in a decline in the value of our common shares and the ADSs as measured in U.S. Dollars. On the other hand, a substantial increase in the value of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy. The appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar negatively impacts the financial condition of entities whose foreign currency denominated assets exceed their foreign currency-denominated liabilities, such as us. In addition, in the short term, a significant real appreciation of the Peso would adversely affect exports. This could have a negative effect on GDP growth and employment as well as reduce the Argentine public sector’s revenues by reducing tax collection in real terms, given its current heavy reliance on taxes on exports. The appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar could have an adverse effect on the Argentine economy and our business. Government measures to preempt or respond to social unrest may adversely affect the Argentine economy and our business. The Argentine government has historically exercised significant influence over the country’s economy. Additionally, the country’s legal and regulatory frameworks have at times suffered radical changes, due to political influence and significant political uncertainties. Moreover, during its crisis in 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced significant social and political turmoil, including civil unrest, riots, looting, nationwide protests, strikes and street demonstrations. Despite Argentina’s economic recovery and relative stabilization, social and political tension and high levels of poverty and unemployment continue. In 2008, Argentina faced nationwide strikes and protests from farmers due to increased export taxes on agricultural products, which disrupted economic activity and heightened political tension. Future government policies to preempt, or in response to, social unrest may include expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, suspension of the enforcement of creditors’ rights, new taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and changes in laws and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. Such policies could destabilize the country and adversely and materially affect the economy, and thereby our business. The Argentine government may order salary increases to be paid to employees in the private sector, which would increase our operating costs. In the past, the Argentine government has passed laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to maintain minimum wage levels and provide specified benefits to employees and may do so again in the future. In the aftermath of the Argentine economic crisis, employers both in the public and private sectors have experienced significant pressure from their employees and labor organizations to increase wages and to provide additional employee benefits. Due to the high levels of inflation, the employees and labor organizations have begun again demanding significant wage increases. It is possible that the Argentine government could adopt measures mandating salary increases and/or the provision of additional employee benefits in the future. Any such measures could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The nationalization of Argentina’s pension funds has materially and adversely affected local capital markets and may continue to do so. Under Law No. 26,425, which was published in the Official Gazette in December 2008, the Argentine government transferred approximately Ps. 94.4 billion (US$ 29.3 billion) in assets held by the country’s private Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones (pension funds, or “AFJPs”) to the social security agency (“ANSES”) managed by the National State. Law No. 26,425 was supplemented, among others, by Decree No. 2103/2008 which describes the composition of the fund (Fondo de Garantia de Sustentabilidad) to be managed by ANSES and the directions for the management thereof; in turn, Decree No. 2104/08 regulates the matters concerning the transfer to the Argentine government of the contributions and all the documentation of the members of the capitalization regime retroactive as of December 1, 2008. AFJPs were the largest participants in the country’s local capital markets, leading the group of institutional investors. With the nationalization of their assets, the dynamics of the local capital markets changed due to a decrease in their number, becoming a concentrated group. In addition, the government became a significant shareholder in many of the country’s publicly-held companies. Pursuant to current regulations, ANSES may exercise the voting rights corresponding to its respective shares, which could eventually result in uncertain consequences. The nationalization of the AFJP has adversely affected investors’ confidence in Argentina, which may impact our ability to undertake access to the capital market in the future. Exchange controls and restrictions on transfers abroad and capital inflow restrictions have limited, and can be expected to continue to limit, the availability of international credit. In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. On June 2005, the government issued decree No. 616/2005, which established additional controls on capital inflow, including the requirement that, subject to limited exemptions, 30% of all funds remitted to Argentina remain deposited in a domestic financial institution for one year without earning any interest. On October 2011, new exchange controls measures that restrict foreign exchange inflows and outflows of capital have been implemented, among them it was established as a requirement for the repatriation of the direct investment of the non-resident (purchase of shares of local companies and real estate), the demonstration of the income of the currency and its settlement in the single free exchange market “Mercado Único y Libre de Cambios”. This measure increases the cost of obtaining foreign funds and limits access to such financing. 13 Table of Content The Argentine government may, in the future, impose additional controls on the foreign exchange market and on capital flows from and into Argentina, in response to capital flight or depreciation of the Peso. These restrictions may have a negative effect on the economy and on our business if imposed in an economic environment where access to local capital is constrained. For more information, please see Item 10 (d) “Exchange Controls”. Payment of dividends to non-residents has been limited in the past and may be limited again. Beginning in February 2002, the payment of dividends, irrespective of amount, outside Argentina required prior authorization from the Central Bank. On January 7, 2003, the Central Bank issued communication “A” 3859, which is still in force and pursuant to which there are no limitations on companies’ ability to purchase foreign currency and transfer it outside Argentina to pay dividends, provided that those dividends arise from net earnings corresponding to approved and audited financial statements. If similar restrictions are enacted by the Argentine government or the Central Bank in the future, it could have an adverse effect on our business. Property values in Argentina could decline significantly. Property values are influenced by multiple factors that are not beyond control. We cannot assure you that property values will increase. Many of the properties we own are located in Argentina. As a result, a reduction in the value of properties in Argentina would materially affect our business. The stability of the Argentine banking system is uncertain. During 2001 and the first half of 2002, a significant amount of deposits were withdrawn from Argentine financial institutions largely due to the loss of confidence of depositors in the Argentine government’s ability to repay its debts, including its debts within the financial system, and to maintain Peso-Dollar parity in the context of its solvency crisis. To prevent a run on the U.S. Dollar reserves of local banks, the government restricted the amount of money that account holders could withdraw from banks and introduced exchange controls restricting capital outflows. While the condition of the financial system has improved, adverse economic developments, even if not related to or attributable to the financial system, could result in deposits flowing out of the banks and into the foreign exchange market, as depositors seek to shield their financial assets from a new crisis. Any run on deposits could create liquidity or even solvency problems for financial institutions, resulting in a contraction of available credit. In the event of a future shock, such as the failure of one or more banks or a crisis in depositor confidence, the Argentine government could impose further exchange controls or transfer restrictions and take other measures that could lead to renewed political and social tensions and undermine the Argentine government’s public finances, which could adversely affect Argentina’s economy and prospects for economic growth which could adversely affect our business. The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other global markets. Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other global markets. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into other countries, including. Lower capital inflows and declining securities prices negatively affect the real economy of a country through higher interest rates or currency volatility. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including those in Mexico in 1994, the collapse of several Asian economies between 1997 and 1998, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation in January 1999. In addition, Argentina is also affected by the economic conditions of major trade partners, such as Brazil and/or countries that have influence over world economic cycles, such as the United States. If interest rates rise significantly in developed economies, including the United States, Argentina and other emerging market economies could find it more difficult and expensive to borrow capital and refinance existing debt, which would negatively affect their economic growth. In addition, if these developing countries, which are also Argentina’s trade partners, fall into a recession the Argentine economy would be affected by a decrease in exports. All of these factors would have a negative impact on us, our business, operations, financial condition and prospects. Moreover, several European Union members have been obliged recently to reduce their public expenditures due to their high indebtedness rates, which had a negative impact on the economy of the Euro zone. Japan has also announced that it will cut fiscal expenditures. Since 2008 the “sub-prime” crisis in the United States and the recent economic recession and fiscal deficit experienced in certain European countries caused an economic slowdown in the world’s principal economies. Recently, the possibility of a default by Greece or other Eurozone country has increased market volatility and may complicate financing access. After acknowledging difficulties to meet payment of its public debt, the accounts of Greece were put under the supervision of the European Union. Mainly due to fears of contagion and to the drastic decline in Greece’s public debt ratings, the European Union, together with the International Monetary Fund, designed a plan of aid for Greece involving the supply of approximately 110 billion Euros. This contribution was granted based on the adjustment plan approved by the European Union for Greece, which included pay cuts for civil servants, pensions and retirement reductions, and significant increases in taxes. This led to widespread rioting in the streets. Spain, Portugal, Germany, and certain EU countries have adopted similar adjustments in all areas to prevent further deterioration of their accounts. Notwithstanding these measures, it is unclear what consequences there would be in the global financial system if any of the major global financial institutions became insolvent, or what effects such a situation might have on the rest of the financial system. The current global economic condition may have significant long-term effects on Latin America and Argentina, mainly reflected in the lack of access to international credit, reduced demand for Argentine exports, and significant reductions in foreign direct investment. The realization of any or all of these risk factors, as well as events that may arise in the main regional partners, including members of Mercosur, could have a material adverse effect on the Argentine economy and, indirectly, on our operations, business, and results of our operations. 14 Table of Content If prices for Argentina’s main commodity exports decline, such decline could have an adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth and on our business. Argentina’s economy has historically relied on the export of commodities, the prices of which have been volatile in the past and largely outside its control. Argentina’s recovery from the financial crisis in 2001 and 2002 has depended to a significant extent on the rise in commodity prices, particularly prices of its main commodity exports, such as soybeans. High commodity prices have contributed significantly to government revenues from taxes on exports. Fluctuations in prices for commodities exported by Argentina and a significant increase in the value of the Peso (in real terms) may reduce Argentina’s competitiveness and significantly affect the country’s exports. A decrease in exports could affect Argentina’s economy, have a material adverse effect on public finances due to a loss of tax revenues, cause an imbalance in the country’s exchange market which, in turn, could lead to increased volatility with respect to the exchange rate. In addition, and more importantly in the short term, a significant appreciation of the Peso could materially reduce the Argentine government’s revenues in real terms and affect its ability to make payments on its debt obligations, as these revenues are heavily derived from export taxes (withholdings). This could worsen the financial condition of the Argentine public sector, which could materially and adversely affect the Argentine economy, as well as our financial condition and operating results. Restrictions on the supply of energy could negatively affect Argentina’s economy. As a result of prolonged recession, and the forced conversion into Pesos and subsequent freeze of gas and electricity tariffs in Argentina, there has been a lack of investment in gas and electricity supply and transport capacity in Argentina in recent years. At the same time, demand for natural gas and electricity has increased substantially, driven by a recovery in economic conditions and price constraints, which has prompted the government to adopt a series of measures that have resulted in industry shortages and/or costs increase. The federal government has been taking a number of measures to alleviate the short-term impact of energy shortages on residential and industrial users. If these measures prove to be insufficient, or if the investment that is required to increase natural gas production and transportation capacity and energy generation and transportation capacity over the medium-and long-term fails to materialize on a timely basis, economic activity in Argentina could be curtailed which may have a significant adverse effect on our business. As a first step of these measures, subsidies on energy tariffs are being withdrawn to industries and high income consumers. As a result, our operating costs may increase. Risks Relating to Our Business We are subject to risks inherent to the operation of shopping centers that may affect our profitability. Shopping centers are subject to various factors that affect their development, administration and profitability. These factors include: • decline in our lease prices or increases in levels of default by our tenants due to recessions, increases in interest rates and other factors that we cannot control; • the accessibility and the attractiveness of the area where the shopping center is located; • the intrinsic attractiveness of the shopping center; • the flow of people and the level of sales of each shopping center rental unit; • increasing competition from internet sales; • the amount of rent collected from each shopping center rental unit; • changes in consumer demand and availability of consumer credit, both of which are highly sensitive to general macroeconomic conditions; and • the fluctuations in occupancy levels in the shopping centers. An increase in our operating costs, caused by inflation or by other factors, could have a material adverse effect on us if our tenants are unable to pay higher rent due to the increase in expenses. Moreover, the shopping center business is closely related to consumer spending and to the economy in which customers are located. All of our shopping centers are in Argentina, and, as a consequence, their business could be seriously affected by a recession in Argentina. For example, during the economic crisis in Argentina, spending decreased significantly, unemployment, political instability and inflation significantly reduced consumer spending in Argentina, lowering tenants’ sales and forcing some tenants to leave our shopping centers. If the international financial crisis has a substantial impact on economic activity in Argentina, it will likely have a material adverse effect on the revenues from the shopping center activity and thus on our business. Our performance is subject to risks associated with our properties and with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets are subject to the risk that our properties may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to service our debt and to cover other expenses may be adversely affected. Events or conditions beyond our control that may adversely affect our operations or the value of our properties include: • downturns in the national, regional and local economic climate; • volatility and decline in discretionary spending; • competition from other shopping centers; • local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand for retail space; • decreases in consumption levels; • changes in interest rates and availability of financing; • the exercise by our tenants of their legal right to early termination of their leases; • vacancies, changes in market rental rates and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space; • increased operating costs, including insurance expense, salary increases, utilities, real estate taxes, state and local taxes and heightened security costs; • civil disturbances, earthquakes and other natural disasters, or terrorist acts or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; • significant expenditures associated with each investment, such as debt service payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs which are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in revenues from a property; 15 Table of Content • declines in the financial condition of our tenants and our ability to collect rents from our tenants; • changes in our ability or our tenants’ ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance, possibly decreasing the useful life of and revenue from property; and • changes in law or governmental regulations (such as those governing usage, zoning and real property taxes) or government action such as expropriation or confiscation. If any one or more of the foregoing conditions were to affect our business, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An adverse economic environment for real estate companies and the credit crisis may adversely impact our results of operations and business prospects significantly. The success of our business and profitability of our operations are dependent on continued investment in the real estate markets and access to capital and debt financing. A long term crisis of confidence in real estate investments and lack of credit for acquisitions may tend to constrain our business growth. As part of our business goals, we intend to increase our properties portfolio with strategic acquisitions of core properties at advantageous prices, and core plus and value added properties where we believe we can bring necessary expertise to enhance property values. In order to pursue acquisitions, we may need access to equity capital and/or debt financing. Recent disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of major financial institutions, may adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt and the availability and cost of credit in the near future. Any consideration of sales of existing properties or portfolio interests may be tempered by decreasing property values. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness depends on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions. If a recurrence of the disruptions in financial markets remain in the future, there can be no assurances that government responses to such disruptions will restore investor confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. The loss of significant tenants could adversely affect both the operating revenues and value of our properties. If certain of our most important tenants were to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn of business, or if we simply failed to retain their patronage, our business could be adversely affected. Our shopping centers are typically anchored by significant tenants, such as well known department stores who generate shopping traffic at the mall. A decision by such significant tenants to cease operations at our shopping centers could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of the affected segment and, by extension, on our financial condition and results of our operations. The closing of one or more significant tenants may induce other major tenants at an affected property to terminate their leases, to seek rent relief and/or cease operating their stores or otherwise adversely affect occupancy at the property. In addition, key tenants at one or more properties might terminate their leases as a result of mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, dispositions or bankruptcies in the retail industry. The bankruptcy and/or closure of one or more significant tenants, if we are not able to successfully re-lease the affected space, could have a material adverse effect on both the operating revenues and underlying value of the properties involved. Our future acquisitions may be unprofitable. We intend to acquire additional shopping center properties to the extent that they will be acquired on advantageous terms and conditions, and meet our investment criteria. Acquisitions of commercial properties entail general investment risks associated with any real estate investment, including: • our estimates of the cost of improvements needed to bring the property up to established standards for the market may prove to be inaccurate; • properties we acquire may fail to achieve within the time frames we project the occupancy or rental rates we project at the time we make the decision to acquire, which may result in the properties’ failure to achieve the returns we projected; • our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs; and • our investigation of a property or building prior to its acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition cost. If we acquire a business, we will be required to merge and integrate the operations, personnel, accounting and information systems of the acquired business. In addition, acquisitions of or investments in companies may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention away from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current tenants and employees. We face risks associated with property acquisitions. We have in the past acquired, and intend to acquire in the future, properties, including large properties that would increase our size and potentially alter our capital structure. Although we believe that the acquisitions that we have completed in the past and that we expect to undertake in the future have, and will, enhance our future financial performance, the success of such transactions is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the risk that: • we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms; • acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; • the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than our estimates; • acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, absence of business relationships in the area or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and • we may not be able to efficiently integrate acquired properties, particularly portfolios of properties, into our organization and to manage new properties in a way that allows us to realize cost savings and synergies. Some of the land we have purchased is not zoned for development purposes, and we may be unable to obtain, or may face delays in obtaining the necessary zoning permits and other authorizations. We own several plots of land which are not zoned for the type of projects we intend to develop. In addition, we do not yet have the required land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in our attempts to rezone land and to obtain all necessary permits and authorizations, or that rezoning efforts and permit requests will not be unreasonably delayed or rejected. Moreover, we may be affected by building moratorium and anti-growth legislation. If we are unable to obtain all of the governmental permits and authorizations we need to develop our present and future projects as planned, we may be forced to make unwanted modifications to such projects or abandon them altogether. 16 Table of Content Our ability to grow will be limited if we cannot obtain additional capital. Our growth strategy is focused on the development and redevelopment of properties we already own and the acquisition and development of additional properties. As a result, we are likely to depend to an important degree on the availability of debt or equity capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We cannot guarantee that additional financing, refinancing or other capital will be available in the amounts we desire or on favorable terms. Our access to debt or equity capital markets depends on a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential, our ability to pay dividends, our financial condition, our credit rating and our current and potential future earnings. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption since the last credit crisis. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and market conditions, the availability of credit, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our prospects or the industry generally. We may not be able to successfully obtain any necessary additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Serious illnesses and pandemics, such as the 2009 outbreak of Influenza A H1N1 virus, (the “swine flu”), have in the past adversely affected consumer and tourist activity, may do so in the future and may adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of the outbreak of Influenza A H1N1 during the winter of 2009, consumers and tourists dramatically changed their spending and travel habits to avoid contact with crowds. Further, several governments enacted regulations limiting the operation of schools, cinemas and shopping centers. Even though the Argentine government only issued public service recommendations to the population regarding the risks involved in visiting crowded places, such as shopping centers, and did not issue specific regulations limiting access to public places, a significant number of consumers nonetheless changed their habits vis-a-vis shopping centers and malls. We cannot assure you that a new outbreak or health hazard will not occur in the future, or that such an outbreak or health hazard would not significantly affect consumer and/or tourist activity, and that such scenario would not adversely affect our businesses. Adverse incidents that occur in our shopping centers may result in damage to our image and a decrease in the number of our customers. Given that shopping centers are open to the public, with ample circulation of people, accidents, theft, robbery and other incidents may occur in our facilities, regardless of the preventative measures we adopt. In the event such an incident or series of incidents occurs, shopping center customers and visitors may choose to visit other shopping venues that they believe are safer and less violent, which may cause a reduction in the sales volume and operating income of our shopping centers. Argentine Lease Law No. 23,091 imposes restrictions that limit our flexibility. Argentine laws governing leases impose certain restrictions, including the following: • lease agreements may not contain inflation adjustment clauses based on consumer price indexes or wholesale price indexes. Although many of our lease agreements contain readjustment clauses, these are not based on an official index nor do they reflect the inflation index. In the event of litigation these provisions may not be enforceable and therefore it may be impossible for us to adjust the amounts owed to us under our lease agreements; • residential leases must comply with a mandatory minimum term of two years and retail leases must comply with a mandatory minimum term of three years except in the case of stands and/or spaces for special exhibitions; • lease terms may not exceed ten years, except for leases regulated by Law No. 25,248 (which provides that leases containing a purchase option are not subject to term limitations); and • tenants may rescind commercial and office lease agreements after the initial six-month period. As a result of the foregoing, we are exposed to the risk of increases of inflation under our leases and the exercise of rescission rights by our tenants could materially and adversely affect our business and we cannot assure you that our tenants will not exercise such right, especially if rent values stabilize or decline in the future or if economic conditions deteriorate. Eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time consuming. Although Argentine law permits a summary proceeding to collect unpaid rent and a special proceeding to evict tenants, eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time-consuming. Historically, the heavy workloads of the courts and the numerous procedural steps required have generally delayed landlords’ efforts to evict tenants. Eviction proceedings generally take between six months and two years from the date of filing of the suit to the time of actual eviction. We have usually attempted to negotiate the termination of lease agreements with defaulting tenants after the first few months of non-payment in order to avoid legal proceedings. Delinquency may increase significantly in the future, and such negotiations with tenants may not be as successful as they have been in the past. Moreover, new Argentine laws and regulations may forbid or restrict eviction, and in each such case they would likely have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Our investment in property development, redevelopment and construction activities may be less profitable than we anticipate. We are engage in the development and construction of shopping centers and residential apartment complexes, frequently through third-party contractors. Risks associated with our development, re-development and constructions activities include the following, among others: · abandonment of development opportunities and renovation proposals; · construction costs of a project may exceed our original estimates for reasons including raises in interest rates or increases in the costs of materials and labor, making a project unprofitable; · occupancy rates and rents at newly completed properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, resulting in lower than projected rental rates and a corresponding lower return on our investment; · pre-construction buyers may default on their purchase contracts or units in new buildings may remain unsold upon completion of construction; · the unavailability of favorable financing alternatives in the private and public debt markets; · sale prices for residential units may be insufficient to cover development costs; · construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; · impossibility to obtain, delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, or building moratoria and anti-growth legislation; · significant time lags between the commencement and completion of projects subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuation in the general economy; · construction may not be completed on schedule because of a number of factors, including weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters (such as fires, hurricanes, earthquakes or floods), resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; and · we may incur capital expenditures that could result in considerable time consuming efforts and which may never be completed due to government restrictions. 17 Table of Content In addition, we may face contractors’ claims for the enforcement of labor laws in Argentina (sections 30, 31, 32 under Law No. 20,744), which provide for joint and several liability. Many companies in Argentina hire personnel from third-party companies that provide outsourced services, and sign indemnity agreements in the event of labor claims from employees of such third company that may affect the liability of such hiring company. However, in recent years several courts have denied the existence of independence in those labor relationships and declared joint and several liabilities for both companies. While our policies with respect to expansion, renovation and development activities are intended to limit some of the risks otherwise associated with such activities, we are nevertheless subject to risks associated with the construction of properties, such as cost overruns, design changes and timing delays arising from a lack of availability of materials and labor, weather conditions and other factors outside of our control, as well as financing costs, may exceed original estimates, possibly making the associated investment unprofitable. Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these redevelopment projects and harm our operating results. We are subject to great competitive pressure. Our development activities are highly concentrated in the Buenos Aires metropolitan area, where the real estate market is highly competitive due to a scarcity of properties in sought-after locations and the increasing number of local and international competitors. Furthermore, the Argentine real estate industry is generally highly competitive and fragmented and does not have high barriers to entry restricting new competitors from entering the market. The main competitive factors in the real estate development business include availability and location of land, price, funding, design, quality, reputation and partnerships with developers. A number of residential and commercial developers and real estate services companies compete with us in seeking land for acquisition, financial resources for development and prospective purchasers and tenants. Other companies, including joint ventures of foreign and local companies, have become increasingly active in the real estate business and shopping center business in Argentina, further increasing this competition. To the extent that one or more of our competitors are able to acquire and develop desirable properties, as a result of greater financial resources or otherwise, our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to respond to such pressures as promptly as our competitors, or the level of competition increases, our financial condition and results of our operations could be adversely affected. All of our shopping center properties are located in Argentina. There are other shopping centers and numerous smaller retail stores and residential properties within the market area of each of our properties. The number of competing properties in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease retail space in our shopping centers or sell units in our residential complexes and on the amount of rent or the sale price that we are able to charge. To date, there have been relatively few companies competing with us for shopping center properties. However, if additional companies become active in the Argentine shopping center market in the future, such competition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our assets are highly concentrated in certain geographic areas and an economic downturn in such areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, 81.2 % of our sales from leases and services were derived from shopping centers in the City of Buenos Aires and the Gran Buenos Aires metropolitan area. Although we own properties and may acquire or develop additional properties outside of the City of Buenos Aires and the Gran Buenos Aires metropolitan area, we expect to continue to depend to a very large extent on economic conditions affecting those areas and therefore, an economic downturn in those areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our dependence on rental income may adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations. The substantial majority of our income is derived from rental income from real property. As a result, our performance depends on our ability to collect rent from tenants. Our income and funds for distribution would be negatively affected if a significant number of our tenants, or any of our major tenants (as discussed in more detail below): • Delay lease commencements; • Decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration; • Fail to make rental payments when due; or • Close stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenant’s leases and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases. In addition, we cannot be sure that any tenant whose lease expires will renew that lease or that we will be able to re-lease space on economically advantageous terms. The loss of rental revenues from a number of our tenants and our inability to replace such tenants may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to meet debt and other financial obligations in either Pesos or in a foreign currency. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance and certain kinds of insurance coverage may become prohibitively expensive. We currently carry insuarence policies that cover potential risks such as civil liability, fire, loss profit, floods, including extended coverage and losses from leases on all of our properties. Although we believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are generally customary, there are certain types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims, terrorism and acts of war that generally are not insured under the insurance policies offered in the national market. Should an insured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot assure you that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Moreover, we do not purchase life or disability insurance for any of our key employees. If any of our key employees were to die or become incapacitated, we could experience losses caused by a disruption in our operations which will not be covered by insurance, and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our insurance coverage in an adequate amount or at reasonable prices. Insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to terrorist acts and mold, or, if offered, these types of insurance may be prohibitively expensive. 18 Table of Content An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from our negligence or intentional misconduct or that of our agents. Tenants are generally required, at the tenant’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. In addition, we cannot assure the holders that the tenants will properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our level of debt may adversely affect our operations and our ability to pay our debt as it becomes due. We had, and expect to continue to have, substantial liquidity and capital resource requirements to finance our business. As of June 30, 2012, our consolidated financial debt amounted to Ps. 780.2 million (including accrued and unpaid interests and deferred financing costs). Although we are generating sufficient funds from operating cash flows to satisfy our debt service requirements and our capacity to obtain new financing is adequate given the current availability of credit lines with the banks, we cannot assure you that we will maintain such cash flow and adequate financial capacity in the future. The fact that we are leveraged may affect our ability to refinance existing debt or borrow additional funds to finance working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditures. In addition, the recent disruptions in the global financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of major financial institutions, may adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt and the availability and cost of credit in the future. In such conditions, access to equity and debt financing options may be restricted and it may be uncertain how long these economic circumstances may last. This would require us to allocate a substantial portion of cash flow to repay principal and interest, thereby reducing the amount of money available to invest in operations, including acquisitions and capital expenditures. Our leverage could also affect our competitiveness and limit our ability to changes in market conditions, changes in the real estate industry and economic downturns. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to satisfy our debt service requirements or to obtain future financing. If we cannot satisfy our debt service requirements or if we default on any financial or other covenants in our debt arrangements, the lenders and/or holders of our debt will be able to accelerate the maturity of such debt or cause defaults under the other debt arrangements. Our ability to service debt obligations or to refinance them will depend upon our future financial and operating performance, which will, in part, be subject to factors beyond our control such as macroeconomic conditions (including the recent international credit crisis) and regulatory changes in Argentina. If we cannot obtain future financing, we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our planned capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our ability to generate cash flows and repay our obligations. The recurrence of a credit crisis could have a negative impact on our major customers, which in turn could materially adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. The recent credit crisis had a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. The impact of a crisis on our major tenants cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. A disruption in the ability of our significant tenants to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction their future orders of their products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. The shift of consumers to purchasing goods over the Internet may negatively affect sales in our shopping centers. During the last years, retail sales by means of the Internet have grown significantly in Argentina, even though the market share of Internet sales related to retail sales is still not significant. The Internet enables manufacturers and retailers to sell directly to consumers, diminishing the importance of traditional distribution channels such as retail stores and shopping centers. We believe that our target consumers are increasingly using the Internet, from home, work or elsewhere, to shop electronically for retail goods, and this trend is likely to continue. If e-commerce and retail sales through the Internet continue to grow, consumers’ reliance on traditional distribution channels such as our shopping centers could be materially diminished, having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our business is subject to extensive regulation and additional regulations may be imposed in the future. Our activities are subject to federal, state and municipal laws, and to regulations, authorizations and licenses required with respect to construction, zoning, use of the soil, environmental protection and historical patrimony, consumer protection, antitrust and other requirements, all of which affect our ability to acquire land, buildings and shopping centers, develop and build projects and negotiate with customers. In addition, companies in this industry are subject to increasing tax rates, the creation of new taxes and changes in the taxation regime. We are required to obtain licenses and authorizations with different governmental authorities in order to carry out our projects. Maintaining our licenses and authorizations can be a costly provision. In the case of non-compliance with such laws, regulations, licenses and authorizations, we may face fines, project shutdowns, and cancellation of licenses and revocation of authorizations. In addition, public authorities may issue new and stricter standards, or enforce or construe existing laws and regulations in a more restrictive manner, which may force us to make expenditures to comply with such new rules. Development activities are also subject to risks relating to potential delays in obtaining or an inability to obtain all necessary zoning, environmental, land-use, development, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. Any such delays or failures to obtain such government approvals may have an adverse effect on our business. In the past, the Argentine government imposed strict and burdensome regulations regarding leases in response to housing shortages, high rates of inflation and difficulties in accessing credit. Such regulations limited or prohibited increases on rental prices and prohibited eviction of tenants, even for failure to pay rent. Most of our leases provide that the tenants pay all costs and taxes related to their respective leased areas. In the event of a significant increase in the amount of such costs and taxes, the Argentine government may respond to political pressure to intervene by regulating this practice, thereby negatively affecting our rental income. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not impose similar or other regulations in the future. Changes in existing laws or the enactment of new laws governing the ownership, operation or leasing of properties in Argentina could negatively affect the Argentine real estate market and the rental market and materially and adversely affect our operations and profitability. We are controlled by one principal shareholder. As of June 30, 2012, IRSA Inversiones y Representaciones Sociedad Anónima (“IRSA”), our major shareholder, owned in the aggregate 95.6% of our capital stock. This principal shareholder controls us and has significant influence on the election of our directors and the outcome of any action requiring shareholder approval. 19 Table of Content We are dependent on our Board of Directors. Our success, to a significant extent, depends on the continued employment of Eduardo Elsztain and certain other members of our board of directors and senior management, who have significant expertise and knowledge of our business and industry. The loss or interruption in of his services for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success also depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel, or that any of our personnel will remain employed by us. Due to the currency mismatches between our assets and liabilities, we have currency exposure. As of June 30, 2012, the majority of our liabilities, such as our Series I Notes and our Convertible Notes are denominated in U.S. Dollars while our revenues are denominated in Pesos. This currency gap exposes us to a risk of exchange rate volatility, which would negatively affect our financial results if the dollar were to appreciate against the Peso. Any further depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar will correspondingly increase the amount of our debt in Pesos, with further adverse effects on our results of operation and financial condition and may increase the collection risk of our leases and other receivables from our tenants and mortgage debtors, most of whom have Peso-denominated revenues. Risks Relating to our ADSs and our Common Shares Shares eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of our shares and American Depositary Shares (“ADS”). The market prices of our common shares and the ADSs could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of common shares or ADSs in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The ADSs are freely transferable under U.S. securities laws, including shares sold to our affiliate. IRSA, which as of June 30, 2012 own approximately 95.6% of our common shares (or approximately 1,204,566,686 common shares which may be exchanged for an aggregate of 30,114,167 ADSs), is free to dispose of any or all of its common shares or ADSs at any time in its discretion. Sales of a large number of our common shares and/or ADSs would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and the ADSs. We are subject to certain different corporate disclosure requirements and accounting standards than domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States. There may be less publicly available information about the issuers of securities listed on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (the “Bolsa de Comercio de Buenos Aires”) than is regularly published by or about domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States and certain other countries. In addition, all listed Argentine companies must prepare their financial statements in accordance with Argentine GAAP and the regulations of the Comisión Nacional de Valores, which differ in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. For this and other reasons, the presentation of Argentine financial statements and reported earnings may differ from that of companies in other countries in this and other respects. We are exempt from the rules under the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Investors may not be able to effect service of process within the U.S., limiting their recovery of any foreign judgment. We are a publicly held stock corporation (sociedad anónima) organized under the laws of Argentina. Most of our directors and our senior managers, and most of our assets are located in Argentina. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such persons or to enforce against us or them in United States courts judgments obtained in such courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. There is doubt whether the Argentine courts will enforce, to the same extent and in as timely a manner as a U.S. or foreign court, an action predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or other foreign regulations brought against such persons or against us. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, U.S. Holders of our shares or ADSs would suffer negative consequences. Based on the current and projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), for United States federal income tax purposes, for the tax year ending June 30, 2012, and we do not currently expect to become a PFIC, although there can be no assurance in this regard. The determination of whether we are a PFIC is made annually. Accordingly, it is possible that we may be a PFIC in the current or any future taxable year due to changes in our asset or income composition or if our projections are not accurate. The volatility and instability of Argentina’s economic and financial system may substantially affect the composition of our income and assets and the accuracy of our projections. In addition, this determination is based on the interpretation of certain U.S. Treasury regulations relating to rental income, which regulations are potentially subject to differing interpretation.If we become a PFIC, U.S. Holders (as defined in “Taxation—United States Taxation”) of our shares or ADSs will be subject to certain United States federal income tax rules that have negative consequences for U.S. Holders such as additional tax and an interest charge upon certain distributions by us or upon a sale or other disposition of our shares or ADSs at a gain, as well as reporting requirements. Please see ‘‘Taxation—United States Taxation’’ for a more detailed discussion of the consequences if we are deemed a PFIC. You should consult your own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to your particular circumstances. Holders of our ADSs may be unable to exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares underlying the ADSs at our shareholders’ meetings. We will not treat the holders of our ADSs as one of our shareholders and the holders of our ADSs will not have shareholder rights. The depositary will be the holder of the common shares underlying your ADSs and ADS holders may exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. There are no provisions under Argentine law or under our by-laws that limit the exercise by ADS holders of their voting rights through the depositary with respect to the underlying common shares. However, there are practical limitations on the ability of ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional procedural steps involved in communicating with these holders. For example, holders of our common shares will receive notice of shareholders’ meetings through publication of a notice in an Official Gazette in Argentina, an Argentine newspaper of general circulation and the bulletin of the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange, and will be able to exercise their voting rights by either attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. ADS holders, by comparison, will not receive notice directly from us. Instead, in accordance with the deposit agreement, we will provide the notice to the depositary. The depositary will mail to holders of ADSs the notice of the meeting and a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by holders. To exercise their voting rights, ADS holders must then instruct the depositary as to voting the common shares represented by their ADSs. Due to these procedural steps involving the depositary, the process for exercising voting rights may take longer for ADS holders than for holders of common shares and common shares represented by ADSs may not be voted as their desire. 20 Table of Content Under Argentine law, shareholder rights may be fewer or less well defined than in other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and by Argentine corporate law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the States of Delaware or New York, or in other jurisdictions outside Argentina. In addition, your rights or the rights of holders of our common shares to protect your or their interests in connection with actions by our board of directors may be fewer and less well defined under Argentine corporate law than under the laws of those other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are illegal under Argentine law, the Argentine securities markets are not as highly regulated or supervised as the U.S. securities markets or markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self—dealing and regarding the preservation of shareholder interests may be less well defined and enforced in Argentina than in the United States, putting holders of our common shares and ADSs at a potential disadvantage. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Argentina are different from and more limited than those in the United States and may be more difficult to enforce. Under Argentine law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and much more limited than, those in the United States and some other Latin American countries. For example, the legal framework with respect to shareholder disputes, such as derivative lawsuits and class actions, is less developed under Argentine law than under U.S. law as a result of Argentina’s short history with these types of claims and few successful cases. In addition, there are different procedural requirements for bringing these types of shareholder lawsuits. As a result, it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. Our shareholders may determine to not pay any dividends. In accordance with Argentine corporate law we may pay dividends to shareholders out of net and realized profits, if any, as set forth in our audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Argentine GAAP. The approval, amount and payment of dividends are subject to the approval by our shareholders at our annual ordinary shareholders meeting. The approval of dividends requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate enough net and realized profits so as to pay dividends or that our shareholders will decide that dividends will be paid. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by law and certain commitments under loan agreements. In accordance with Argentine corporate law, we may pay dividends in Pesos out of retained earnings, if any, to the extent set forth in our audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Argentine GAAP. Our shareholders’ ability to receive cash dividends may be limited. Our shareholders’ ability to receive cash dividends may be limited by the ability of the depositary to convert cash dividends paid in Pesos into U.S. Dollars. Under the terms of our deposit agreement with the depositary for the ADSs, to the extent that the ADS depositary can in its judgment, and in accordance with local exchange regulations, convert Pesos (or any other foreign currency) into U.S. Dollars on a reasonable basis and transfer the resulting U.S. Dollars abroad, the ADS depositary will promptly as practicable convert or cause to be converted all cash dividends received by it in Pesos on the deposited securities into U.S. Dollars. If in the judgment of the depositary this conversion is not possible on a reasonable basis (or is not permitted by applicable Argentine laws, regulations and approval requirements), the ADS depositary may distribute the foreign currency received by it in Pesos in Argentina or in its discretion hold such currency uninvested for the respective accounts of the owners entitled to receive the same. As a result, if the exchange rate fluctuates significantly during a time when the depositary cannot convert the foreign currency, you may lose some or all of the value of the dividend distribution. 