D. Risk Factors You should consider the following risks associated with our business, taking into account the instability of the country in which we operate. We may also face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently affecting us, or that we currently deem immaterial, which may materially impair our business. In general, investing in companies which operate in emerging markets such as Argentina is more risky than investing in companies which operate in more stable markets such as the United States. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Argentina We collect substantially all of our revenues in Argentina, thus the economic crisis suffered in this country has had and continues to have severe consequences in our financial condition. We are a corporation (sociedad anónima) organized under the laws of the Republic of Argentina. We collect substantially all of our revenues in Argentina and substantially all of our operations, developments, and customers are located in Argentina. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations depend to a significant extent on macroeconomic and political conditions prevailing from time to time in Argentina. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina underwent a period of severe political, economic and social instability that led to the early resignation of President De la Rúa, the default on substantially all of Argentina’s sovereign debt and the devaluation of the Peso after a ten-year period of one-to-one parity with the U.S. Dollar. Following a succession of interim Presidents during the course of ten days, on January 1, 2002, at a joint session of the Argentine Congress, Eduardo Duhalde, a senator for the Justicialist Party, was selected to complete the term in office left vacant by President de la Rúa which was due to expire in December 2003. During his term in office, President Duhalde adopted a number of measures, including, but not limited to the following: • ratifying the suspension of payment of a portion of Argentina’s sovereign debt which had been previously declared suspended by interim President Rodriguez Saá; • ending the one-to-one Peso-U.S. Dollar parity that had been in place since April 1991; • converting certain U.S. Dollar-denominated loans by financial institutions in the Argentine financial system into Peso-denominated loans (“pesification”) at a one-to-one exchange rate plus an adjustment for variations in consumer prices (Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia or “CER”) or in salaries (Coeficiente de Variación de Salarios or “CVS”), as the case may be; • converting U.S. Dollar-denominated bank deposits in financial institutions in the Argentine financial system into Peso-denominated bank deposits at an exchange rate of Ps.1.40 per US$1.00 plus an adjustment pursuant to CER; • requiring the mandatory sale, currently suspended, by all banks of all their foreign currency held in Argentina to the Argentine Central Bank (Banco Central de la República Argentina or “Argentine Central Bank”) at an exchange rate of Ps.1.40 per US$1.00 (in the case of U.S. Dollars) or at an equivalent rate (in the case of other currencies); • converting most foreign currency-denominated obligations of entities in Argentina to non-financial institutions in Argentina into Peso-denominated obligations at a one-to-one exchange rate (in the case of obligations denominated in U.S. Dollars) or at a comparable rate (in the case of obligations denominated in another foreign currency), plus an adjustment pursuant to the CER or the CVS, as the case may be, plus an equitable adjustment in certain cases; • restructuring the maturity of, and interest rates on, domestic bank deposits and maintaining restrictions on withdrawals of those deposits; • enacting an amendment to the Argentine Central Bank’s charter allowing it to (1) print currency in excess of the amount of foreign reserves it holds, (2) make short-term advances to the Argentine government and (3) provide financial assistance to financial institutions in the Argentine financial system with liquidity constraints or solvency problems; • converting or “pesifying” public service tariffs, originally calculated in U.S. Dollars, into Pesos at a one-to-one exchange rate; 14 Table of Contents • freezing public service tariffs without permitting indexation of any kind in contracts executed after the effective date of the Public Emergency Law; • authorizing the Argentine government to renegotiate tariffs in public utility service contracts; • imposing restrictions on transfers of funds abroad subject to certain exceptions; • requiring the deposit in the Argentine financial system of foreign currency earned from exports, subject to certain exceptions; and • enacting amendments to the Bankruptcy Law to protect debtors. The measures set forth above resulted in a profound change to the Argentine monetary and foreign exchange regime and to the regulatory framework for all business sectors in Argentina. The impact of such measures on the Argentine economy was significant in the course of 2002 and throughout the first half of 2003. In accordance with data published by the INDEC, in 2002 Argentina’s gross domestic product (“GDP”) decreased 10.9%, unemployment increased to unsustainable levels and the persistent devaluation of the Peso led to an escalation in retail and wholesale prices of 41.4% and 118.2%, respectively. This led to a reduction of wages in real terms and of disposable income and resulted in changes in consumer behavior across all sectors of the Argentine population adversely affecting our sales. In 2003 the Argentine economy began to experience a recovery which may not be sustained if the government fails to achieve its proposed goals. The increase in the level of demonstrations and violence in June 2002 led then-President Duhalde to announce his resignation effective May 25, 2003 and to call presidential elections prior to the expiration of his term. Néstor Kirchner was elected President in the second round and was inaugurated on May 25, 2003. His term in office will expire on December 10, 2007. Although the economic policies implemented by Kirchner’s administration have succeeded in achieving economic growth Argentina in 2003 (estimated at 8.8% as compared to 2002) and 2004 (estimated at 9.0% as compared to 2003) and in the first six months of 2005 (estimated at 9.1% as compared to the first six months of 2004), there are still major issues pending resolution, such as the contracts with privatized public utility companies, the restructuring of the country’s financial system and continuing default of pre-existing sovereign debt that did not participate in the government’s exchange offer. The Kirchner administration’s main challenge is to generate confidence and create conditions that allow for a transition from the current short-term stabilization economic policies to long-term and sustainable growth. We cannot assure you that the Kirchner administration will be able to implement the required reforms to engender economic growth and reestablish political confidence. If it is unable to do so this would likely have an adverse effect on the economy and financial system. The government’s actions concerning the economy, including the ones with respect to inflation, interest rates, price controls, foreign exchange controls and taxes, have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on private entities, including us. Decisions with regards to those issues could paralyze investment and consumption decisions causing a reduction in retail sales and real estate sales. Consequently, we cannot provide any assurance that future economic, social and political developments in Argentina, over which we have no control, will not impair our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The Peso has been subject to major devaluations in the past and may suffer significant fluctuations in the future. The economic policies of the Argentine government as well as any future depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar might have an adverse impact on our financial condition and the results of our operations. The Peso has been subject to major devaluations in the past and may suffer significant fluctuations in the future. Law No. 25,561, promulgated on January 6, 2002, called Public Emergency and Foreign Exchange Regime Reform Law (“Public Emergency Law”), put an end to over a decade of one-to-one parity between the 15 Table of Contents U.S. Dollar and the Peso and authorized the Argentine government to set the exchange rate. Subsequent to the devaluation of the Peso in early 2002 and since the beginning of the economic crisis, there have been significant fluctuations in the value of the Peso causing repeated Argentine Central Bank interventions to stabilize the Peso through purchases and sales of U.S. Dollars. As of November 30, 2005, the exchange rate was Ps.2.95 per U.S. Dollar after a peak of Ps.3.90 per U.S. Dollar on June 25, 2002. We collect substantially all of our revenues in Argentina, and as a result of the enactment of the Public Emergency Law, they are calculated and collected in Pesos. We cannot assure you that the policies to be implemented by the Argentine government in the future will stabilize the value of the Peso against foreign currencies. Therefore, the Peso may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations and further devaluations which might significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations. Further depreciation of the Peso would have particular impact on: • revenues collected for services provided in Argentina, such as lease agreements; • the valuations of our assets; and • our Peso-denominated monetary assets and liabilities which could be affected by the introduction of different inflation adjustment indexes. Argentina may not be able to attract foreign investment in the future. Argentina’s recent social and economic instability, the Government’s emergency measures to address the instability and security concerns relating to an increase in crime (including the recent activities of organized picketers, or “piqueteros”) have made many foreign investors unwilling to invest in Argentina. Foreign investment is conducive in many respects to our economic recovery and future economic growth. Argentina’s continuing inability to attract foreign investment may have an adverse effect on Argentina’s economy and prospects. Inflation may escalate and further undermine the economy, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On January 24, 2002, the Argentine government amended the Argentine Central Bank’s charter allowing it to print currency without having to maintain a fixed and direct ratio with the foreign currency and gold reserves. This amendment allows the Argentine Central Bank to make advances to the Argentine government to cover anticipated budget deficits and to provide financial assistance to financial institutions with liquidity problems. Furthermore, the devaluation of the Peso affected the domestic price system generating inflation in 2002. Through December 31, 2003, the CER and the wholesale price index exhibited increased by 3.7% and 4.3%, respectively, compared to 41.4% and 118.2%, respectively, for 2002. During 2004, the CER increased by 6.1% and the wholesale price index increased by 7.9%. Although in the course of 2003 and 2004 inflation has been relatively stable, there is great concern over the escalating levels of inflation by the end of 2005. After rising 0.8% and 1.5% in December 2004 and January 2005, respectively, prices increased by 1.0% in February, 1.5% in March 2005, 0.5% in April 2005, 0.6% in May 2005, 0.9% in June 2005, 1.0% in July 2005, 0.4% in August 2005, 1.2% in September 2005, 0.8% in October 2005 and 1.2% in November 2005, creating significant uncertainty regarding future inflation levels. The devaluation of the Peso and related economic measures implemented by the Argentine government were intended primarily to remedy the effects of unemployment and to stimulate economic growth. To date, the objectives pursued have been achieved, but the sustainable success of such measures will depend on the ability of the Argentine government to generate confidence in the local and international financial markets. If current uncertainty regarding the government’s policies persists, it is likely that inflation rates will increase significantly, investment and economic activity will contract, unemployment will increase beyond current levels, tax collection will drop and the current fiscal surplus will erode, leading to fiscal deficit. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the value of the Peso will continue to be stable or that inflation will remain at current 16 Table of Contents levels. Any significant increase in inflation or additional volatility in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The recent economic and financial crisis produced significant social and political tensions, which could worsen in the event of another shock and have a material adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth. During the height of its recent economic crisis, Argentina experienced significant social and political turmoil, evidenced by street demonstrations, strikes, increased rates of crime and the rapid succession of four interim administrations between President De la Rúa’s resignation in December 2001 and President Duhalde’s appointment in January 2002. In addition, the lack of any clear political consensus in favor of a particular set of economic policies has also given rise to, and may perpetuate, significant uncertainties about Argentina’s economic and political future. There can be no assurance that the significant domestic instability evident during 2001 and 2002 will not reemerge in response to an internal or external shock. Such instability could have a material adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth. Furthermore, if unemployment rates do not decrease substantially, consumption of retail goods will be detrimentally affected which in turn will adversely affect the financial condition of our tenants, and consequently, our results of operations. Promulgations of laws related to foreclosure on real state adversely affect property rights In February 2002, the Argentine government amended Argentina’s bankruptcy law, suspending bankruptcies and foreclosures, initially for a six-month period and subsequently extended until November 14, 2002. On June 2, 2003, the Congress passed a law formally suspending the ability to foreclose on mortgaged properties for a term of ninety days, reinstating the earlier “formal” suspension on foreclosures that ended on November 14, 2002. This suspension was extended until September 2, 2003. However, the creditors voluntarily agreed, together with banks and other financial institutions, to extend such suspension until a new law solved this situation. On November 5, 2003 Law No. 25,798 was enacted. It established a mechanism to reschedule the mortgage debts by creating a Trust (paid by the Argentine Government) which purchases portfolio mortgage debts and reschedules them in a more profitable way. The period that creditors had to express their consent to this mortgage reschedule system expired on June 22, 2004. This law was partially modified by Law No. 25,908 (enacted on July 13, 2004) which included different conditions referring to the incorporation to this system of the mortgage loans that were in judicial or private execution proceedings. Future governmental policies will likely significantly affect the economy as well as the operations of financial institutions The Argentine government has historically exercised significant influence over the economy, and financial institutions, in particular, have operated in a highly regulated environment. Due to the Argentine crisis, in the last few months the Argentine government has promulgated numerous, far-reaching and not always consistent laws and regulations affecting the economy and financial institutions in particular. We cannot assure you that laws and regulations currently governing the economy or the banking sector will not continue to change in the future, particularly in light of the continuing economic crisis, or that any changes will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or our ability to honor our foreign-currency denominated debt obligations. Due to the current social and political crisis, investing in Argentina also entails the following risks: • rioting, looting, nation-wide protests, strikes and widespread social unrest; • expropriation, nationalization and forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts; and • unpredictable taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims. 17 Table of Contents Despite the apparent disappearance of the signs of economic and political crisis, the structural problems of the Argentine economy, which have recurrently caused or contributed to the political crisis in the past, have not been resolved, and there can be no assurance that the policies of the elected president will be ultimately successful. Future exchange controls may prevent us from servicing our foreign currency-denominated debt obligations. Since early December 2001, the Argentine authorities implemented a number of monetary and currency exchange control measures that included restrictions on the withdrawal of funds deposited with banks and severe restrictions on transfers abroad. Although most restrictions in connection with repayments to foreign creditors have been lifted, these regulations have been changing constantly since they were first enacted, and we cannot assure you that they will not be put in place again and, if they are, whether they will be stricter than before. Currently, the government, through the Argentine Central Bank, holds control over capital inflows and outflows, enacting the applicable rules in this regard. Decree No. 616/2005, issued on June 10, 2005, established that inflows and outflows of foreign currency into the local exchange market, and indebtedness transactions incurred by local residents that may result in a foreign currency-denominated payment to non-residents, need to be registered with the Argentine Central Bank. Furthermore, as from May 26, 2005, the following situations are subject to certain requirements and conditions: (a) inflows of funds derived from foreign borrowing by the private financial and non-financial sectors; and (b) inflows of foreign currency by non-residents for the purpose of: (i) holding a position in local currency, (ii) purchasing financial debt or assets and (iii) investing in government bonds in the secondary market. In these situations, the following requirements must be met: (i) inflows must remain in Argentina for 365 days to be computed as from the day they were negotiated in the local exchange market; (ii) the funds involved in the transactions covered by this decree must be deposited in a local bank account; (iii) a non-transferable deposit denominated in U.S. Dollars for an amount equal to 30% of the relevant transaction has to be made with the resulting proceeds. This deposit will only be reimbursed after the expiration of a 365 days term, cannot bear interest (nor yield any other type of profit) and may not be used as collateral in any credit transaction. Such requirements do not apply to: (a) foreign direct investment, (b) primary placement of publicly traded debt or equity securities listed in one or more exchange markets, and (c) foreign trade and export finance related transactions. Subsequently, Resolution No. 365/2005 from the Ministry of Economy and Production established that non-resident capital inflows destined for the primary subscription of Argentine Central Bank notes and income derived from the sale by residents of foreign assets for an amount greater than US$2 million per month, will also be subject to the aforementioned requirements. Resolution No. 365/2005 provided certain exemptions to the non-transferable deposit requirement such as (i) inflows derived from borrowings extended by multilateral and bilateral financial institutions and official credit agencies, and (ii) inflows derived from financial borrowings extended by foreign creditors, so long as they are devoted to investments in non-financial assets and the borrowed amounts are repaid at least 24 months after they were granted. However, neither Resolution No.365/2005 nor the relevant Argentine Central Bank Communications contain any definition or example as to what would constitute a non-financial asset that would fall under such exception. Therefore, inflows of foreign currency derived from loans extended by foreign creditors to residents devoted to finance the acquisition or the construction of any real estate property are likely to be subject to the non-transferable deposit requirement even if such borrowings are to be repaid no earlier than 24 months after they were granted. By contrast, according to Communication “C” 43075 dated September 26, 2005, inflows of foreign currency caused by a non-resident and devoted to the cancellation of payment obligations under a purchase agreement (including installment payments thereof) concerning a real estate property under construction may be registered as foreign direct investments provided certain conditions are met. Finally, Resolution No. 637/2005 from the Ministry of Economy and Production dated November 16, 2005 established that any inflow of foreign currency to the local exchange market devoted to the primary subscription of notes, bonds or participation certificates issued by the trustee of a trust, regardless of the channels in which they are traded (public or private offerings, or listings in self-regulated markets) is subject to 18 Table of Contents the non-transferable deposit requirement established by Decree 616/2005 if such requirement would be deemed applicable to the acquisition of the underlying assets of the trust. See Item 10.D. Although most capital outflow restrictions with regard to import of goods, payment of interest, utilities, dividends and financial debts, have been eliminated, there can be no assurance that the Argentine Central Bank will not reverse its position and once again restrict payments of principal and interest outside of Argentina. If more stringent restrictions are imposed by the Argentine Central Bank, we may be unable to make payments of principal and interest on our foreign currency-denominated debt obligations. If that were to occur, we would likely suffer payment defaults on our existing debt obligations, and such defaults would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects and our ability to service our external debt obligations. Argentina’s sovereign debt restructuring may create certain additional uncertainties regarding future litigation and economic development. On December 23, 2001, interim President Rodríguez Saá announced the suspension of the payment of all of Argentina’s sovereign indebtedness, which as of December 31, 2001 amounted to approximately US$144.5 billion. On January 2, 2002, then President Duhalde ratified this decision in relation to the portion of the debt corresponding to private-sector foreign debt holders. Subsequently, the main international credit rating agencies downgraded Argentina’s sovereign debt rank. In November 2002, Argentina failed to honor certain payments then outstanding and payable to the World Bank. On September 21, 2003, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund approved the restructuring of US$12.5 billion of Argentina’s sovereign debt outstanding with multilateral lenders. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement with the International Monetary Fund, the maturities of this debt were extended over the next three years. In addition, Argentina committed itself to achieving certain targets, including a primary fiscal surplus of 3% of GDP for 2004, and left the primary fiscal surplus target for the following two years open for negotiation. Prior to reaching an agreement, the Argentine government defaulted in a payment due to the International Monetary Fund that was cured by execution of a new standby agreement. On September 23, 2003, the Argentine government announced the guidelines proposed for a restructuring plan in connection with approximately US$95 billion of debt held by the private sector. These guidelines set forth that the Government could require existing debt holders to accept, among other decisions, a 75% reduction in principal, honoring only 25% of the outstanding principal on such indebtedness. In accordance with the agreement reached with the IMF, Argentina is subject to quarterly reviews. The first reviews were approved in January 2004 and in March 2004, respectively. In August 2004, the International Monetary Fund’s financial assistance program was suspended until the conclusion of the public debt restructuring process. The Argentine debt exchange offer ended on February 25, 2005. On March 18, 2005, the Argentine government announced the final results of the debt restructuring process, with a rate of participation by bondholders of approximately 76% and an aggregate tendered amount of US$ 62.3 billion. Despite the high levels of acceptance of the offer, the amounts not tendered for exchange totaled approximately US$20 billion, which created uncertainty as to the final resolution of the sovereign debt problem and its impact on the future performance of the Argentine economy. The settlement of the debt exchange was completed on June 2, 2005 due to a delay resulting from legal action commenced by certain bondholders who did not participate in the exchange offer in an attempt to attach the tendered bonds. Following the settlement of Argentina’s sovereign debt restructuring on May 18, 2005, the International Monetary Fund agreed to a one-year extension of Argentina’s scheduled repayment of debt amounting to US$2.5 billion with maturities due and owed to the International Monetary Fund arising between May 20, 2005 and April 28, 2006. Additionally, certain companies have filed claims before the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes. The claimants allege that the emergency measures are inconsistent with the fair and equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. 19 Table of Contents Most of these claimants contend that government’s actions had the effect of expropriating their investments without adequate compensation. Their pleadings are still pending a decision. We can give no assurance that further litigation to be initiated by holdouts will not result in material judgments against the Argentine government. After the exchange offer, Argentina’s sovereign debt exceeds US$120 billion. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will honor its obligations either under the exchange offer or under the rescheduled agreement with the International Monetary Fund. Further defaults may result in additional litigation and affect Argentina’s credibility toward multilateral lenders. This would adversely affect economic growth. Under these circumstances, we cannot assure that the economy will not suffer additional shocks which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The recent suspension of the Mayor of the City of Buenos Aires and the commencement of an impeachment proceeding against him is generating political and institutional instability. On November 14, 2005, the legislative body of the City of Buenos Aires suspended Mayor Aníbal Ibarra and initiated an impeachment proceeding against him. He is being charged with breach of duties a fire on December 30, 2004 that caused the death of 193 people in a local night club that did not comply with minimum safety standards required for the issuance of a municipal permit. If Mayor Ibarra is found guilty of these charges he could be removed from office. This impeachment proceeding is the first one of its kind to take place in the history of the City of Buenos Aires. The confrontation among political parties in the legislative body of the City and the trial is generating political and institutional instability in the city where most of IRSA’s (Inversiones y Representaciones Sociedad Anónima) and APSA’s assets are located. Recent changes in Kirchner’s cabinet of ministers is generating uncertainty as to the future development of governmental policies On November 28, 2005 President Kirchner announced the replacement of several Ministers of his cabinet. Felisa Josefina Miceli replaced Roberto Lavagna as head of the Ministry of Economy and Production, Jorge Enrique Taiana replaced Rafael Bielsa as head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Nilda Garré replaced José Pampuro as head of the Ministry of Defense and Juan Carlos Nadalich replaced Alicia Kirchner as head of the Ministry of Social Development. After these announcements, some concerns have arisen, particularly with regards to the replacement of the Minister of Economy and Production. The most important concern is whether the new Minister will be able to develop governmental policies that foster the recovery of the local economy and reduce the poverty level in Argentina. Risks Related to Our Business The devaluation of the Argentine Peso and the deterioration of the Argentine economy may cause a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and financial condition As of June 30, 2005, our outstanding financial debt denominated in U.S. Dollar amounted to Ps. 170.2 million (including accrued and unpaid interest and deferred financing costs), which represented a 73.5% of our consolidated financial debt. Any further depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar will correspondingly increase the amount of our debt in Pesos, with further adverse effects on our results of operation and financial condition. Our level of debt may adversely affect our operations and our ability to pay our debt as it becomes due We had, and expect to have, substantial liquidity and capital resource requirements to finance our business. As of June 30, 2005, our consolidated financial debt amounted to Ps. 231.5 million (including accrued and unpaid interests and deferred financing costs). 20 Table of Contents Although we are generating sufficient funds from operating cash flows to satisfy our debt service requirements and our capacity to obtain new financing is adequate, we cannot assure you that we will maintain such cash flow and adequate financial structure in the future. The fact that we are leveraged may affect our ability to refinance existing debt or borrow additional funds to finance working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditures. This would require us to allocate a substantial portion of cash flow to repay principal and interest, thereby reducing the amount of money available to invest in operations, including acquisitions and capital expenditures. Our leverage could also affect our competitiveness and limit our ability to react to market conditions, the real estate industry and economic downturns. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to satisfy our debt service requirements or to obtain future financing. If we cannot satisfy our debt service requirements or if we default on any financial or other covenants in our debt arrangements, the holders of our debt will be able to accelerate the maturity of such debt or cause defaults under the other debt arrangements. Our ability to service debt obligations or to refinance them will depend upon our future financial and operating performance, which will, in part, be subject to factors beyond our control such as macroeconomic conditions and regulatory changes in Argentina. If we cannot obtain future financing, we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our planned capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our ability to generate cash flows and repay our obligations. Risks associated with real estate investments Our real estate investments are subject to risks common to commercial and residential properties in general, many of which are not within our control. Any of these risks may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The yields available from equity investments in real estate depend on the level of sales or rental income generated and expenses incurred. Our ability to generate sufficient income from our properties to service our debt and cover other expenses may be adversely affected by the following factors, among others, some of which we cannot control: • oversupply of retail space or a reduction in demand for retail space, which could result in lower rent prices and lower revenues for us; • increased competition from other real estate operators which might drive down our prices and profits; • changes in our ability or our tenants’ ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance, which in turn may decrease the revenues collected from leased property; • increases in operating expenses which could lower our profitability; • the inability to collect rents due to bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants or otherwise; • the need to periodically renovate, repair and release space, the higher costs thereof; and • exercise by our tenants of their legal right to terminate their leases early. An economic downturn in the areas in which the shopping centers are located, bankruptcy of tenants and reduction in the shopping center sales due to lower disposable income might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors may result in the inability or unwillingness of some tenants to pay rent or increase expense. In addition, we have a number of important tenants occupying space in more than one shopping center; if any one or more of such tenants were to experience financial difficulties and default in lease payments, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, our biggest tenant contributed approximately 1.4% of our income from leases and services. Furthermore, as leases on properties expire or terminate early, we may be unable to find new tenants or existing tenants may enter into new leases on terms 21 Table of Contents that are less favorable to us. The failure to lease such properties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Failure to sell planned properties will adversely affect our financial condition We might have difficulty or fail to sell our futures developments. A failure or a delay in selling these properties would result in lower results of operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Real estate market illiquidity and a decrease in property value in U.S. Dollars terms may adversely affect our financial condition The Argentine crisis, including the devaluation of the Peso, has decreased real estate value in U.S. Dollar terms and liquidity for real estate investments. Despite the current recovery of the economy, it may be more difficult for us to adjust our property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or business conditions or to the factors described above. The economic recession and the devaluation of the Peso significantly reduced consumer spending power while the social unrest and ensuing political instability together with the succession of governmental measures have adversely affected the normal operations of banks. If we are forced to sell one or more of our shopping centers in order to cover operating expenses or to satisfy debt service obligations, or if we are forced to liquidate the proceeds from such sales might be less than our total investment in the shopping centers sold. We are subject to shopping center operating risks that may affect our profitability Shopping centers are subject to several factors that could affect their administration and profitability. These factors include: • the accessibility and the attractiveness of the area where the shopping center is located; • the intrinsic attractiveness of the shopping center; • the flow of people and the level of sales of each shopping center rental unit; • the amount of rent collected from each shopping center rental unit; and • the fluctuations in occupancy levels in the shopping centers. In the event of an increase in operational costs, caused by inflation or other factors, we could suffer a material adverse effect, if our tenants are unable to pay their higher rent obligations. Moreover, the profitability of our shopping center is closely related to consumer spending, and, therefore, to the economy in which our shopping centers operate. All of our shopping centers are located in Argentina, and, as a consequence, their business has been seriously affected by the Argentine recession. Unemployment, political instability and inflation have reduced consumer spending in Argentina, lowering tenants’ sales and forcing some of them to leave our shopping centers. This has reduced our occupied space and consequently, our revenues. We are subject to great competitive pressure All of our properties are located in Argentina. There are other shopping centers and numerous smaller retail stores and residential properties within the market area of each of our properties. The number of competing properties in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease retail space in our shopping centers or sell units in our residential complexes and on the amount of rent or the sale price that we are able to charge. To date, there have been relatively few companies competing with us for shopping center properties. However, if additional companies become active in the Argentine shopping center market in the future, such competition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our assets are highly concentrated in certain geographic areas and an economic downturn in such areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition Our main properties are located in the City of Buenos Aires and the Greater Buenos Aires area and substantially all of our revenues are derived from such properties. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, approximately 71.9% of our sales from leases and services were derived from properties in the City of Buenos Aires and the Greater Buenos Aires area. Although we own properties and may acquire or develop additional properties outside of the City of Buenos Aires and the Greater Buenos Aires area, we expect to continue to depend to a very large extent on economic conditions affecting those areas and therefore, an economic downturn in those areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we cannot reach an agreement with the sellers of the Neuquén Project regarding our acquisition of a significant interest, the sale may be voided and we may lose our original investment On July 6, 1999 APSA acquired 94.6% ownership of Shopping Neuquén S.A. for Ps. 4.2 million. APSA paid Ps. 0.9 million on September 1, 1999 and the remaining Ps. 3.3 million were originally scheduled to be paid on or before July 5, 2001 or at the completion of the construction of the shopping center, whichever happened first. We clarify that said amounts are in Pesos according to the emergency legislation in force. However, Shopping Neuquén S.A.’s former shareholders have challenged the constitutionality of such legislation, and no final decision has been issued. As of November 30, 2005 the purchase price balance remains unpaid. Shopping Neuquén S.A.’s sole asset is a plot of land of approximately 50,000 square meters on which a shopping center is proposed to be built. The proposed project contemplates the building of a shopping center, a hypermarket, a hotel and a housing complex none of which have been commenced. Legal issues with Shopping Neuquén S.A’s former shareholders On August 15, 2003 APSA was informed that the former shareholders of Shopping Neuquén S.A., who had a 85.75% interest, filed a complaint against APSA seeking recovery of the purchase price balance, interest and legal costs. In September 2003, APSA answered the complaint opposing several defenses such as, plaintiffs’ non-compliance with their duties under the contract and the pesification of the purchase price balance according to the emergency legislation. Moreover, APSA filed a counterclaim alleging there should be a readjustment of the effects of the contract which became excessively burdensome for unforeseeable reasons given the 2001 economic, social and political crisis. In November 2003 the plaintiffs replied to APSA’s counterclaim alleging that the payment under the purchase agreement was overdue before the economic and social crisis emerged and thus APSA’s contract readjustment claim was inadmissible. As of November 30, 2005 the trial is in the discovery stage. Legal issues with the Municipality of Neuquén In June 2001 Shopping Neuquén S.A. filed a request with the Municipality of Neuquén to extend the construction deadlines that had been originally scheduled. In addition, it requested authorization to convey certain plots of land to third parties so that each participant to the Neuquén project would be able to build on his own land. On December 20, 2002 the Municipality of Neuquén issued Decree 1437/02 denying both requests. In addition, it declared the rights under Ordinance 5178 had lapsed and that the land purchase agreements would be terminated. As a result, the improvements already performed by Shopping Neuquén S.A. would be lost and accrued in favor of the Municipality of Neuquén, leaving Shopping Neuquén S.A. with no right to compensation. On January 21, 2003 Shopping Neuquén S.A. submitted its response to the Decree 1437/02 requesting its revocation. It also requested permission to submit a new construction timetable, which would be prepared in accordance with the current situation of the project, including reasonable short and medium term projections. The Municipal Executive issued Decree 585/2003 rejecting this. On June 25, 2003 Shopping Neuquén S.A. filed an administrative action with the Supreme Court of Neuquén requesting the annulment of Decrees 1437/2002 and 585/2003. On December 21, 2004, the Supreme Court of Neuquén ruled in favor of the 23 Table of Contents Municipality of Neuquén, declaring that the administrative action filed by Shopping Neuquén S.A. had expired. The decision, however, is not final. APSA filed an appeal but the Supreme Court of Neuquén has not yet issued a decision with regards to its admissibility. If the appeal is declared admissible the Federal Supreme Court will give a final decision, but if it is declared inadmissible APSA will file an appeal directly with the Federal Supreme Court. Shopping Neuquén S.A. is currently seeking to negotiate with the Municipality of Neuquén the terms of an agreement that might permit reactivation of the proposed development. Nevertheless, we cannot give you any assurance that APSA will be able to achieve such an agreement on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and if APSA cannot, the Municipality of Neuquén would be entitled to request the restitution of the property and APSA will likely lose all or substantially all of its investment which amounts to Ps. 10 million. We maintain a provision of Ps. 2.3 million which represents our best estimate of the probable loss to be incurred in connection with these claims. The shift of consumers to purchasing goods over the Internet may negatively affect sales in our shopping centers During the last years, retail sales by means of the Internet have grown significantly in Argentina, even though the market share of Internet sales related to retail sales is still not significant. The Internet enables manufacturers and retailers to sell directly to consumers, diminishing the importance of traditional distribution channels such as retail stores and shopping centers. We believe that our target consumers are increasingly using the Internet, from home, work or elsewhere, to shop electronically for retail goods, and this trend is likely to continue. If e-commerce and retail sales through the Internet continue to grow, consumers’ reliance on traditional distribution channels such as our shopping centers could be materially diminished, having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our investments in Internet companies are subject to high risk Our Internet investments involve a high risk. Internet companies are relatively new and there is little or no historical operating and financial information available to analyze. Additionally, in the first years of operation, Internet companies generally do not generate earnings or positive cash flows, and their losses must be covered with capital contributions from investors. We cannot assure you that Internet companies will generate earnings or will be able to obtain financing once the initial capital contributions are already used. Therefore, our risks associated with Internet companies includes the possibility that: • we will not recover the investments already made; and • we will have to increase our capital contributions to finance the Internet companies. We may also experience the following additional risks with respect to our investment in Internet companies: • the possibility that the Internet company might not maintain and/or increase the level of traffic of the sites; • the Internet company might not adapt itself or anticipate the changes in the market; • the Internet company may be inefficient in updating and developing the necessary systems and organization and in hiring new or specialized personnel; • the chance that the world wide web will not be able to handle the site traffic; • the difficulty in generating expected income; 24 Table of Contents • the failure in the administration of expansion of operations; and • the lack of efficiency to merge new lines of business to the existing operations. Moreover, it should be taken into account that the expected level of use and acceptance of the Internet and online services might never be reached. Our future acquisitions may be unprofitable We intend to acquire additional shopping center properties to the extent that they will be acquired on advantageous terms and meet our investment criteria. Acquisitions of commercial properties entail general investment risks associated with any real estate investment, including: • the risk that investments will fail to perform as expected, or • the risk that estimates of the cost of improvements needed to bring the property up to established standards for the market may prove to be inaccurate. Development and construction activities may render projects unprofitable for us In the development, renovation and construction of shopping centers and residential apartment complexes, we generally hire third-party contractors. Risks associated with our development, renovation and construction activities include: • abandonment of development opportunities and renovation proposals; • construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates, making a project unprofitable; • occupancy rates and rents of a newly completed project may not be sufficient to make the project profitable; • sale prices for residential units may be insufficient to cover development costs; • we may be unable to obtain financing on favorable terms for the development of a project; • pre-construction buyers may default on their purchase contracts, or units in new buildings may remain unsold upon completion of construction; • construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; • we may be unable to obtain or may face delays in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; and • contractors’ claims for the enforcement of labor laws in Argentina (art. 30, 31, 32 Law No. 20,744), which provide for joint and several liability. All kinds of companies in Argentine are used to hire personel from third companies. Due to such necessity they signed indemnity agreements. However, in the last years there have been several Courts which denied the existence of any kind of independence in those labors relationships and ruled for the plaintiff (employee) declaring the existence of joint and several liability. We are subject to the risk of payment defaults due to our investments in credit card businesses Investments in credit card businesses can be adversely affected by delinquency on credit card accounts, defaults in payments by credit card holders, extensive judicial process enforcing the collection of payments, 25 Table of Contents doubtful accounts or losses on receivables. The actual rates of delinquency, collection proceedings and losses on receivables may vary and be affected by numerous factors, which among others include: • adverse changes in the Argentine economy; • adverse changes in the regional economies; • political instability; • increase of unemployment; and • loss of value of actual salaries. These and other factors may have an adverse effect on present rates of delinquency, executions and losses, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. In addition, if our credit card business is adversely affected by any one or more of the above factors, the asset quality of our securitized receivables are also likely to be adversely affected. Therefore, we could be adversely affected to the extent that at such time we hold a participating interest in any such securitized receivables. We are controlled by two principal shareholders As of November 30, 2005, IRSA Inversiones y Representaciones Sociedad Anonima (“IRSA”) and Parque Arauco S.A. (“Parque Arauco”), our main shareholders, owned in the aggregate approximately 91.2% of our capital stock. These principal shareholders control us and have, and will continue to have, significant influence on the election of our directors and the outcome of any action requiring shareholder approval. The number of shares beneficially owned by IRSA and Parque Arauco in the aggregate will increase by 2,169,156,543 assuming full conversion of US$ 47.3 million Convertible Notes owned by IRSA and Parque Arauco. We provided mortgage loans to purchasers of our residential development properties and any default on such loans could adversely affect our cash flow Although mortgage financing for residential property is available in Argentina from banks and financial institutions, we have provided seller financing to purchasers of units in our residential development properties by extending mortgage loans to such purchasers. Our mortgage loans were pesified and currently bear interest at a fixed interest rate averaging 14% per year and for terms ranging generally from 1 to 15 years. As of June 30, 2005, we had approximately Ps. 1.1 million in outstanding mortgage loans. We are subject to risks normally associated with such financing, including the risk of default in the payment of principal and interest, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Argentine law imposes significant restrictions on our ability to foreclose and auction properties. Thus, if there is a default under a mortgage loan, we do not have the right to foreclose on the unit. Instead, in order to reacquire a property, we are required to purchase each unit at a public court ordered auction, or at an out-of-court auction, in accordance with Law No. 24,441. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recover any amount outstanding on any mortgage loan through the sale of any property at such an auction. Our business is subject to extensive regulation The Argentine real estate industry is subject to extensive building and zoning regulations by various federal, state and municipal authorities which affect land acquisition, development and construction activities, and certain dealings with customers, as well as consumer credit and consumer protection statutes and regulations. We are required to obtain approval from various governmental authorities for our development activities, and new laws or regulations could be adopted, enforced or interpreted in a manner that could adversely affect our results of operations and levels of cash flow necessary or available to meet our obligations. Development activities are also subject to risks relating to the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining all 26 Table of Contents necessary zoning, environmental, land-use, development, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. We are also subject to federal, state and municipal environmental laws applicable in Argentina. We believe that such laws and regulations currently do not materially affect our business or results of operations. However, we are unable to assure that real estate industry regulations and related regulations such as environmental regulations, will not change in a way which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Argentine lease laws imposes restrictions that limit our flexibility Argentine laws governing leases impose certain restrictions, including the following: • lease agreements may not contain inflation adjustment clauses based on consumer price indexes or wholesale price indexes. Although many of our lease agreements contain readjustment clauses, these are not based on an official index nor do they reflect the inflation index. In the event of litigation, it may be impossible for us to increase the amounts owed under our lease agreements; • lease agreements must be for a minimum term of two years for residential properties and three years for retail property, except in the case of stands and/or spaces for special exhibitions; • lease terms may not exceed ten years, except for the leases regulated by Law No. 25,248 (which provides that leases containing a purchase option are not subject to term limitations); and • tenants may rescind commercial lease agreements after the initial six months. The exercise of such rescission rights by our tenants could materially and adversely affect our business and we cannot assure you that our tenants will not exercise such right, especially if rent values stabilize or decline in the future. The Argentine government may impose additional restrictions on the lease, operation and ownership of property In the past, in response to housing shortages, high rates of inflation and difficult access to credit, the Argentine government has imposed strict and burdensome regulations regarding leases. Such regulations limited or prohibited rental increases and prohibited eviction of tenants, even for failure to pay rent. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not impose similar or other regulations in the future. Changes in existing laws or the enactment of new laws governing the ownership or operation or leasing of properties in Argentina could materially and adversely affect our operations and profitability. There can be no assurance that additional regulations will not be imposed in the future. Such regulations could negatively affect the Argentine real estate market, and the rental market. Furthermore, most of our leases provide that the tenants pay all costs and taxes related to their respective leasable areas. In the event of a significant increase in the amount of such costs and taxes, the Argentine government may respond to political pressure to intervene by regulating this practice, thereby negatively affecting our rental income. Eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time consuming Although Argentine law permits a summary proceeding to collect unpaid rent and a special procedure to evict tenants, historically, the heavy workload of the courts that hear these matters and the existence of numerous procedural requirements have delayed landlords´ efforts to evict tenants. Eviction proceedings generally range from six months to two years from the date of filing of the lawsuit to the time of actual eviction. Such prolonged proceedings could have a negative impact on the enforcement of our lease agreements. Historically, we have generally attempted to negotiate the termination of lease agreements with defaulting tenants in order to avoid legal proceedings. We cannot assure you that such negotiations will be successful in any particular case. 27 Table of Contents We are dependent on our chairman Eduardo S. Elsztain Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued employment of Eduardo S. Elsztain, Chairman of our Board of Directors. The loss of his services for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success also depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel, or that any of our personnel will remain employed by us. Risks Related to the American Shares and the Shares Shares eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of our shares and American Depositary Shares The market prices of our common shares and American Depositary Shares could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of common shares or American Depositary Shares in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The American Depositary Shares are freely transferable under U.S. securities laws, including shares sold to our affiliates. IRSA and Parque Arauco, which as of November 30, 2005 own approximately 91.2% of our common shares (or approximately 712,036,358 common shares which may be exchanged for an aggregate of 17,800,909 American Depositary Shares), are free to dispose of any or all of their common shares or American Depositary Shares at any time in their discretion. Sales of a large number of our common shares and/or American Depositary Shares would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and the American Depositary Shares. Different Corporate Disclosure and Accounting Standards. We are subject to certain different corporate disclosure requirements and accounting standards than domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States. There is less publicly available information about the issuers of securities listed on the Buenos Aires Stock Market than information publicly available about domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States and certain other countries. In addition, all listed Argentine companies must prepare their financial statements in accordance with Argentine GAAP which differs in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. For this and other reasons, the presentation of Argentine financial statements and reported earnings may differ from that of companies in other countries in this and other respects. APSA is exempted from the rules under the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and its officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempted from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. 28 Table of Contents Investors may not be able to effect service of process within the U.S., limiting their recovery of any foreign judgment. We are a publicly held stock corporation (sociedad anónima) organized under the laws of Argentina. Most of our directors and senior managers, and most of our assets are located in Argentina. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such persons or to enforce against them in United States courts judgments obtained in such courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. We have been advised by our Argentine counsel, Zang, Bergel & Viñes, that there is doubt whether the Argentine courts will enforce in all respects, to the same extent and in as timely a manner as a U.S. or foreign court, an action predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or other foreign regulations brought against such persons or against us. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, United States holders of our equity securities would suffer negative consequences. The Company has not made a determination as to whether it is, or may be, a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), for United States federal income tax purposes for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2005. Because the determination of whether we are a PFIC is an annual determination based upon the composition of our assets and income, it is possible that we may be a PFIC in the current year or that we may become a PFIC in the future. The volatility and instability of Argentina’s economic and financial system may substantially affect the composition of our income and assets. If we are or become a PFIC, United States holders of our shares or American Depositary Shares will be subject to certain United States federal income tax rules which will have negative consequences on them such as additional tax and an interest charge upon certain distributions or upon sales or other disposition of our shares or GDSs at a gain, as well as reporting requirements. Please see Item 10.E “United States Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules” for a more detailed discussion of the consequences of the Company being deemed a PFIC. Investors are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to them. 