ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report before purchasing our securities. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose some or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business A failure to successfully execute our strategy of acquiring other businesses to grow our company could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We intend to continue pursuing growth through the acquisition of companies or assets to expand our project skill-sets and capabilities, enlarge our geographic markets, add experienced management and increase critical mass to enable us to bid on larger contracts. However, we may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates or to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. Moreover, any completed acquisition may not result in the intended benefits and involves a number of risks, including: ● We may have difficulty integrating the acquired companies; ● Our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; ● We may not realize the anticipated cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated; ● We may have difficulty applying our expertise in one market to another market; ● We may have difficulty retaining or hiring key personnel, customers and suppliers to maintain expanded operations; ● Our internal resources may not be adequate to support our operations as we expand, particularly if we are awarded a significant number of contracts in a short time period; ● We may have difficulty retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; ● We may not be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing on terms acceptable to us or at all, and any such financing could result in dilution to our stockholders, impact our ability to service our debt within the scheduled repayment terms and include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations; ● We may have failed to, or were unable to, discover liabilities of the acquired companies during the course of performing our due diligence; and ● We may be required to record additional goodwill as a result of an acquisition, which will reduce our tangible net worth. Any of these risks could prevent us from executing our acquisition growth strategy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 12 We may be unable to successfully integrate our recent and future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We recently acquired a number of companies, including ADEX and T N S in September 2012 and ERFS in December 2012, and have entered into definitive agreements for the acquisition of two additional companies. The operation and management of recent acquisitions, or any of our future acquisitions, may adversely affect our existing income and operations or we may not be able to effectively manage any growth resulting from these transactions. Before we acquired them, these companies operated independently of one another. Until we establish centralized financial, management information and other administrative systems, we will rely on the separate systems of these companies, including their financial reporting systems. Our success will depend, in part, on the extent to which we are able to merge these functions, eliminate the unnecessary duplication of other functions and otherwise integrate these companies (and any additional businesses with which we may combine in the future) into a cohesive, efficient enterprise. This integration process may entail significant costs and delays could occur. Our failure to integrate the operations of these companies successfully could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. To the extent that any acquisition results in additional goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as our credit and bonding capacity. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from master service agreements that may be cancelled by customers on short notice, or which we may be unable to renew on favorable terms or at all. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we derived approximately 60% and 59%, respectively, of our revenues from master service agreements and long-term contracts, none of which require our customers to purchase a minimum amount of services. The majority of these contracts may be cancelled by our customers upon minimum notice (typically 60 days), regardless of whether or not we are in default. In addition, many of these contracts permit cancellation of particular purchase orders or statements of work without any notice. These agreements typically do not require our customers to assign a specific amount of work to us until a purchase order or statement of work is signed. Consequently, projected expenditures by customers are not assured until a definitive purchase order or statement of work is placed with us and the work is completed. Furthermore, our customers generally require competitive bidding of these contracts. As a result, we could be underbid by our competitors or required to lower the price charged under a contract being rebid. The loss of work obtained through master service agreements and long-term contracts or the reduced profitability of such work could adversely affect our business or results of operations. If we do not accurately estimate the overall costs when we bid on a contract that is awarded to us, we may achieve a lower than anticipated profit or incur a loss on the contract. A significant portion of our revenues from our engineering and professional services offerings are derived from fixed unit price contracts that require us to perform the contract for a fixed unit price irrespective of our actual costs. We bid for these contracts based on our estimates of overall costs, but cost overruns may cause us to incur losses. The costs incurred and any net profit realized on such contracts can vary, sometimes substantially, from the original projections due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: ● onsite conditions that differ from those assumed in the original bid; ● delays in project starts or completion, including as a result of weather conditions; ● fluctuations in the cost of materials to perform under a contract; ● contract modifications creating unanticipated costs not covered by change orders; ● changes in availability, proximity and costs of construction materials, as well as fuel and lubricants for our equipment; ● availability and skill level of workers in the geographic location of a project; ● our suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform due to various reasons, including bankruptcy; ● fraud or theft committed by our employees; ● mechanical problems with our machinery or equipment; ● citations or fines issued by any governmental authority; ● difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals or performance bonds; ● changes in applicable laws and regulations; and ● claims or demands from third parties alleging damages arising from our work or from the project of which our work is a part. 13 These factors may cause actual reduced profitability or losses on projects, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our contracts may require us to perform extra or change order work, which can result in disputes and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our contracts generally require us to perform extra or change order work as directed by the customer, even if the customer has not agreed in advance on the scope or price of the extra work to be performed. This process may result in disputes over whether the work performed is beyond the scope of the work included in the original project plans and specifications or, if the customer agrees that the work performed qualifies as extra work, the price that the customer is willing to pay for the extra work. Even when the customer agrees to pay for the extra work, we may be required to fund the cost of such work for a lengthy period of time until the change order is approved by the customer and we are paid by the customer. We generally recognize revenues when services are invoiced. To the extent that actual recoveries with respect to change orders or amounts subject to contract disputes or claims are less than the estimates used in our financial statements, the amount of any shortfall will reduce our future revenues and profits, and this could adversely affect our reported working capital and results of operations. In addition, any delay caused by the extra work may adversely impact the timely scheduling of other project work and our ability to meet specified contract milestone dates. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few customers and the loss of one of these customers, or a reduction in their demand for our services, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our customer base is highly concentrated. Due to the size and nature of our construction contracts, one or a few customers have represented a substantial portion of our consolidated revenues and gross profits in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. Verizon Communications accounted for approximately 7% of our total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2012 and 56% of our total revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011. Our top four customers, Nexlink, Ericsson, Inc., Verizon Communications and Ericsson Caribbean, accounted for approximately 59% of our total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2012. Our top two customers, Verizon Communications and Danella Construction, accounted for approximately 73% of our total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2011. Revenues under our contracts with significant customers may continue to vary from period to period depending on the timing or volume of work that those customers order or perform with their in-house service organizations. A limited number of customers may continue to comprise a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Because we do not maintain any reserves for payment defaults, a default or delay in payment on a significant scale could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We could lose business from a significant customer for a variety of reasons, including: ● the consolidation, merger or acquisition of an existing customer, resulting in a change in procurement strategies employed by the surviving entity that could reduce the amount of work we receive; ● our performance on individual contracts or relationships with one or more significant customers are impaired due to another reason, which may cause us to lose future business with such customers and, as a result, our ability to generate income would be adversely impacted; ● the strength of our professional reputation; and ● key customers could slow or stop spending on initiatives related to projects we are performing for them due to increased difficulty in the credit markets as a result of the recent economic crisis or other reasons. Since many of our customer contracts allow our customers to terminate the contract without cause, our customers may terminate their contracts with us at will, which could impair our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business is labor intensive and if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and skilled labor, or if we encounter labor difficulties, our ability to bid for and successfully complete contracts may be negatively impacted. Our ability to attract and retain reliable, qualified personnel is a significant factor that enables us to successfully bid for and profitably complete our work. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, hire and retain project managers, estimators, supervisors, foremen, equipment operators, engineers, linemen, laborers and other highly-skilled personnel. Our ability to do so depends on a number of factors, such as general rates of employment, competitive demands for employees possessing the skills we need and the level of compensation required to hire and retain qualified employees. We may also spend considerable resources training employees who may then be hired by our competitors, forcing us to spend additional funds to attract personnel to fill those positions. Competition for employees is intense, and we could experience difficulty hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. Our labor expenses may also increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. If we do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting, developing and retaining new highly-skilled employees, our reputation may be harmed and our future earnings may be negatively impacted. 14 If we are unable to attract and retain qualified executive officers and managers, we will be unable to operate efficiently, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We depend on the continued efforts and abilities of our executive officers, as well as the senior management of our subsidiaries, to establish and maintain our customer relationships and identify strategic opportunities. The loss of any one of them could negatively affect our ability to execute our business strategy and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Competition for managerial talent with significant industry experience is high and we may lose access to executive officers for a variety of reasons, including more attractive compensation packages offered by our competitors. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot guarantee that any of them or other key management personnel will remain employed by us for any length of time. Because we maintain a workforce based upon current and anticipated workloads, we may incur significant costs in adjusting our workforce demands, including addressing understaffing of contracts, if we do not receive future contract awards or if these awards are delayed. Our estimates of future performance depend, in part, upon whether and when we will receive certain new contract awards. Our estimates may be unreliable and can change from time to time. In the case of larger projects, where timing is often uncertain, it is particularly difficult to project whether and when we will receive a contract award. The uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching workforce size with contractual needs. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur significant costs resulting from retaining more staff than is necessary. Similarly, if we underestimate the workforce necessary for a contract, we may not perform at the level expected by the customer and harm our reputation with the customer. Each of these may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Timing of the award and performance of new contracts could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. It is generally very difficult to predict whether and when new contracts will be offered for tender because these contracts frequently involve a lengthy and complex design and bidding process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and governmental approvals. Because of these factors, our results of operations and cash flows may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and the fluctuation may be substantial. Such delays, if they occur, could adversely affect our operating results for current and future periods until the affected contracts are completed. Our operating results may fluctuate due to factors that are difficult to forecast and not within our control. Our past operating results may not be accurate indicators of future performance, and you should not rely on such results to predict our future performance. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and could fluctuate in the future. Factors that may contribute to fluctuations include: ● changes in aggregate capital spending, cyclicality and other economic conditions, or domestic and international demand in the industries we serve; ● our ability to effectively manage our working capital; ● our ability to satisfy consumer demands in a timely and cost-effective manner; ● pricing and availability of labor and materials; ● our inability to adjust certain fixed costs and expenses for changes in demand; ● shifts in geographic concentration of customers, supplies and labor pools; and ● seasonal fluctuations in demand and our revenue. Unanticipated delays due to adverse weather conditions, global climate change and difficult work sites and environments may slow completion of our contracts, impair our customer relationships and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Because some of our work is performed outdoors, our business is impacted by extended periods of inclement weather and is subject to unpredictable weather conditions, which could become more frequent or severe if general climatic changes occur. Generally, inclement weather is more likely to occur during the winter season, which falls during our second and third fiscal quarters. Additionally, adverse weather conditions can result in project delays or cancellations, potentially causing us to incur additional unanticipated costs, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. In addition, some of our contracts require that we assume the risk that actual site conditions vary from those expected. Significant periods of bad weather typically reduce profitability of affected contracts, both in the current period and during the future life of affected contracts, which can negatively affect our results of operations in current and future periods until the affected contracts are completed. 15 Some of our projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes up to several years. We may encounter difficulties in engineering, delays in designs or materials provided by the customer or a third party, equipment and material delivery delays, schedule changes, delays from customer failure to timely obtain rights-of-way, weather-related delays, delays by subcontractors in completing their portion of the project and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, but which may impact our ability to complete a project within the original delivery schedule. In some cases, delays and additional costs may be substantial, and we may be required to cancel a project and/or compensate the customer for the delay. We may not be able to recover any of these costs. Any such delays, cancellations, defects, errors or other failures to meet customer expectations could result in damage claims substantially in excess of revenue associated with a project. These factors could also negatively impact our reputation or relationships with our customers, which could adversely affect our ability to secure new contracts. Environmental and other regulatory matters could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and could require expenditures that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health that, among other things, regulate employee exposure to hazardous substances. While immigration laws require us to take certain steps intended to confirm the legal status of our immigrant labor force, we may nonetheless unknowingly employ illegal immigrants. Violations of laws and regulations could subject us to substantial fines and penalties, cleanup costs, third-party property damage or personal injury claims. In addition, these laws and regulations have become, and enforcement practices and compliance standards are becoming, increasingly stringent. Moreover, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of legislation or regulatory requirements that could be imposed, or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted, with respect to products or activities to which they have not been previously applied. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of the regulatory agencies, could require us to make substantial expenditures for, among other things, pollution control systems and other equipment that we do not currently possess, or the acquisition or modification of permits applicable to our activities. If we fail to maintain qualifications required by certain governmental entities, we could be prohibited from bidding on certain contracts. If we do not maintain qualifications required by certain governmental entities, such as low voltage electrical licenses, we could be prohibited from bidding on certain governmental contracts. A cancellation of an unfinished contract or our exclusion from the bidding process could cause our work crews to be idled for a significant period of time until other comparable work becomes available, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The cancellation of significant contracts or our disqualification from bidding for new contracts could reduce our revenues and profits and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Fines, judgments and other consequences resulting from our failure to comply with regulations or adverse outcomes in litigation proceedings could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. From time to time, we may be involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions, including class action lawsuits, that are brought or threatened against us in the ordinary course of business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour laws, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties, consequential damages or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. Any defects or errors, or failures to meet our customers’ expectations could result in large damage claims against us. Claimants may seek large damage awards and, due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. Any failure to properly estimate or manage cost, or delay in the completion of projects, could subject us to penalties. The ultimate resolution of these matters through settlement, mediation or court judgment could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regardless of the outcome of any litigation, these proceedings could result in substantial cost and may require us to devote substantial resources to defend ourselves. When appropriate, we establish reserves for litigation and claims that we believe to be adequate in light of current information, legal advice and professional indemnity insurance coverage, and we adjust such reserves from time to time according to developments. If our reserves are inadequate or insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may suffer. We employ and assign personnel in the workplaces of other businesses, which subjects us to a variety of possible claims that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We employ and assign personnel in the workplaces of other businesses. The risks of these activities include possible claims relating to: ● discrimination and harassment; 16 ● wrongful termination or denial of employment; ● violations of employment rights related to employment screening or privacy issues; ● classification of employees, including independent contractors; ● employment of illegal aliens; ● violations of wage and hour requirements; ● retroactive entitlement to employee benefits; and ● errors and omissions by our temporary employees. Claims relating to any of the above could subject us to monetary fines or reputational damage, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are required to reclassify independent contractors as employees, we may incur additional costs and taxes which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We use a significant number of independent contractors in our operations for whom we do not pay or withhold any federal, state or provincial employment tax. There are a number of different tests used in determining whether an individual is an employee or an independent contractor and such tests generally take into account multiple factors. There can be no assurance that legislative, judicial or regulatory (including tax) authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would change, or at least challenge, the classification of our independent contractors. Although we believe we have properly classified our independent contractors, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or other U.S. federal or state authorities or similar authorities of a foreign government may determine that we have misclassified our independent contractors for employment tax or other purposes and, as a result, seek additional taxes from us or attempt to impose fines and penalties. If we are required to pay employer taxes or pay backup withholding with respect to prior periods with respect to or on behalf of our independent contractors, our operating costs will increase, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Increases in the cost of fuel could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The price of fuel needed to run our vehicles and equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Most of our contracts do not allow us to adjust our pricing. Accordingly, any increase in fuel costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our dependence on subcontractors and suppliers could increase our costs and impair our ability to complete contracts on a timely basis or at all. We rely on third-party subcontractors to perform some of the work on many of our contracts. We also rely on third-party suppliers to provide most of the materials needed to perform our obligations under those contracts. We generally do not bid on contracts unless we have the necessary subcontractors and suppliers committed for the anticipated scope of the contract and at prices that we have included in our bid. Therefore, to the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or suppliers, our ability to bid for contracts may be impaired. In addition, if a subcontractor or third-party supplier is unable to deliver its goods or services according to the negotiated terms for any reason, we may suffer delays and be required to purchase the services from another source at a higher price. We sometimes pay our subcontractors and suppliers before our customers pay us for the related services. If customers fail to pay us and we choose, or are required, to pay our subcontractors for work performed or pay our suppliers for goods received, we could suffer an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all significant risk exposures. We will be exposed to liabilities that are unique to the services we provide. While we intend to maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business. It is also not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. The failure to obtain adequate insurance coverage on terms favorable to us, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 17 Our operations are subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage, thereby subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses, which may not be covered by insurance. Our workers are subject to hazards associated with providing construction and related services on construction sites. For example, some of the work we perform is underground. If the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil containing pollutants that could result in a rupture and discharge of pollutants. In such a case, we may be liable for fines and damages. These operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. Even though we believe that the insurance coverage we maintain is in amounts and against the risks that we believe are consistent with industry practice, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur in our operations. To the extent that we experience a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents or workers’ compensation claims, or unfavorable developments on existing claims, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended (OSHA), establishes certain employer responsibilities, including the maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the Occupational Health and Safety and Health Administration and various recordkeeping, disclosure and procedural requirements. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in occupational health and safety programs, serious accidents or violations of OSHA rules may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Defects in our specialty contracting services may give rise to claims against us, increase our expenses, or harm our reputation. Our specialty contracting services are complex and our final work product may contain defects. We have not historically accrued reserves for potential claims as they have been immaterial. The costs associated with such claims, including any legal proceedings, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks Related to Our Industry Our industry is highly competitive, with a variety of larger companies with greater resources competing with us, and our failure to compete effectively could reduce the number of new contracts awarded to us or adversely affect our market share and harm our financial performance. The contracts on which we bid are generally awarded through a competitive bid process, with awards generally being made to the lowest bidder, but sometimes based on other factors, such as shorter contract schedules or prior experience with the customer. Within our markets, we compete with many national, regional, local and international service providers, including Dycom Industries, Inc., MasTec, Inc., Tech Mahindra, Unisys Corporation and Goodman Networks, Inc. Price is often the principal factor in determining which service provider is selected by our customers, especially on smaller, less complex projects. As a result, any organization with adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. Smaller competitors are sometimes able to win bids for these projects based on price alone because of their lower costs and financial return requirements. Additionally, our competitors may develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are equal or superior in both price and quality to our services, and we may not be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our customers whose personnel perform some of the services that we provide. Some of our competitors have already achieved greater market penetration than we have in the markets in which we compete, and some have greater financial and other resources than we do. A number of national companies in our industry are larger than we are and, if they so desire, could establish a presence in our markets and compete with us for contracts. As a result of this competition, we may need to accept lower contract margins in order to compete against competitors that have the ability to accept awards at lower prices or have a pre-existing relationship with a customer. If we are unable to compete successfully in our markets, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. Many of the industries we serve are subject to consolidation and rapid technological and regulatory change, and our inability or failure to adjust to our customers’ changing needs could reduce demand for our services. We derive, and anticipate that we will continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenue from customers in the telecommunications and utilities industries. The telecommunications and utilities industries are subject to rapid changes in technology and governmental regulation. Changes in technology may reduce the demand for the services we provide. For example, new or developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used for the transmission of voice, video and data, and improvements in existing technology may allow telecommunications providers to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. Alternatively, our customers could perform more tasks themselves, which would cause our business to suffer. Additionally, the telecommunications and utilities industries have been characterized by a high level of consolidation that may result in the loss of one or more of our customers. Our failure to rapidly adopt and master new technologies as they are developed in any of the industries we serve or the consolidation of one or more of our significant customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 18 Further, many of our telecommunications customers are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and other international regulators. The FCC and other regulators may interpret the application of their regulations in a manner that is different than the way such regulations are currently interpreted and may impose additional regulations, either of which could reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Economic downturns could cause capital expenditures in the industries we serve to decrease, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The demand for our services has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the United States economy. The United States economy is still recovering from a recession, and growth in United States economic activity has remained slow. It is uncertain when these conditions will significantly improve. The wireless telecommunications industry and the staffing services industry are both particularly cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the United States and international economies. Our customers are affected by economic changes that decrease the need for or the profitability of their services. This can result in a decrease in the demand for our services and potentially result in the delay or cancellation of projects by our customers. Slow-downs in real estate, fluctuations in commodity prices and decreased demand by end-customers for services could affect our customers and their capital expenditure plans. As a result, some of our customers may opt to defer or cancel pending projects. A downturn in overall economic conditions also affects the priorities placed on various projects funded by governmental entities and federal, state and local spending levels. In general, economic uncertainty makes it difficult to estimate our customers’ requirements for our services. Our plan for growth depends on expanding our company both in the United States and internationally. If economic factors in any of the regions in which we plan to expand are not favorable to the growth and development of the telecommunications industries in those countries, we may not be able to carry out our growth strategy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Financing Plans We have a history of losses and may continue to incur losses in the future, raising substantial doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a history of losses and may continue to incur losses in the future, which could negatively impact the trading value of our common stock. We incurred losses from operations of $2.8 million and $5.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We incurred a net loss attributable to common stockholders of $2.1 million and $6.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, our stockholder’s deficit was $3.3 million. We may continue to incur operating losses in future periods. These losses may increase and we may never achieve profitability for a variety of reasons, including increased competition, decreased growth in the telecommunications industry and other factors described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. These factors raise substantial doubt that we will be able to continue operations as a going concern, and our independent registered public accountants included an explanatory paragraph regarding this uncertainty in their report on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our generating cash flow sufficient to fund operations and reducing operating expenses. We may never achieve profitability, and if we do, we may not be able to sustain such profitability. Further, we may incur significant losses in the future due to the other risks described in this report, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown events. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our stockholders may lose their entire investment. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not occur in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and may lead to a decline in our stock price. We have historically had a small internal accounting and finance staff with limited experience in public reporting. This lack of adequate accounting resources has resulted in the identification of material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In connection with the audit of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, our management team identified material weaknesses relating to (i) the ability to prepare and timely issue the required filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, (ii) the Company lacking the appropriate technical resources to properly evaluate transactions in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and, (iii) the Company lacking a review function. We have taken steps, including the hiring of a Chief Financial Officer and implementing an improved segregation of duties, and plan to continue to take additional steps, to seek to remediate these material weaknesses for the year ending December 31, 2013 and to improve our financial reporting systems and implement new policies, procedures and controls. If we do not successfully remediate the material weaknesses described above, or if other material weaknesses or other deficiencies arise in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results on a timely basis, which could cause our reported financial results to be materially misstated and require restatement which could result in the loss of investor confidence, delisting and/or cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 19 Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we had total indebtedness of approximately $21.2 million, consisting of $0.6 million of bank debt, $16.0 million of notes payable and $4.6 million of contingent consideration for our completed acquisitions. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders. For example, it could: ● require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; ● increase our vulnerability to and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; ● place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; ● limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments; and ● make us more vulnerable to a general economic downturn than a company that is less leveraged. A high level of indebtedness would increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness will depend on our future performance. General economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. Our term loan imposes restrictions on us, which may prevent us from engaging in beneficial transactions. We have a term loan pursuant to a Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of September 17, 2012 and amended as of November 13, 2012 and March 21, 2013, among our company, our subsidiaries, as guarantors, the lenders party thereto and MidMarket Capital Partners, LLC, as agent, or collectively, the “MidMarket Loan Agreement,” which provides for a maximum borrowing of $15.0 million. At December 31, 2012, $15.0 million was outstanding under the MidMarket Loan Agreement. The terms of the MidMarket Loan Agreement contain covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things: ● make certain payments, including the payment of dividends; ● redeem or repurchase our capital stock; ● incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; ● make investments or create liens; ● merge or consolidate with another entity; ● sell certain assets; and ● enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, the MidMarket Loan Agreement requires us to comply with a consolidated leverage ratio and a consolidated interest coverage ratio. These covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions and securing additional financing, if needed. We have in the past breached certain covenants under the MidMarket Loan Agreement that have resulted in various events of default under such agreement, which events of default have either been cured or waived by the lenders thereunder. As of the date of this filing, we were not in default of any of the covenants. Any additional breach of any of these covenants could result in new defaults or events of default under the notes and the MidMarket Loan Agreement, in which case, depending on the actions taken by the lenders thereunder or their successors or assignees, such lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. If we were unable to repay such borrowings or interest, the lenders could proceed against their collateral. Further, if the indebtedness under the MidMarket Loan Agreement were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. 20 Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements. To prepare financial statements in conformity with GAAP, management is required to make estimates and assumptions, as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: ● contract costs and profits and application of percentage-of-completion accounting and revenue recognition of contract change order claims; ● provisions for uncollectible receivables and customer claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, suppliers and others; ● valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; and ● accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. At the time the estimates and assumptions are made, we believe they are accurate based on the information available. However, our actual results could differ from, and could require adjustments to, those estimates. Risks Related to Our Operating History and Results of Operations Our limited operating history as an integrated company, recent acquisitions and the rapidly-changing telecommunications market may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and also impairs our ability to accurately forecast our future performance. Although we were incorporated in 1999, we were a development stage company with limited operations until our 2010 merger with Digital Comm, Inc. (“Digital”). We experienced rapid and significant expansion in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012 due to a series of strategic acquisitions. We acquired ADEX and T N S in September 2012 and ERFS in December 2012, and we have definitive purchase agreements for the acquisitions of Telco and IPC. As a result of our recent acquisitions, our financial results are heavily influenced by the application of the acquisition method of accounting. The acquisition method of accounting requires management to make assumptions regarding the assets purchased and liabilities assumed to determine their fair market value. If our assumptions are incorrect, any resulting change or modification could adversely affect our financial conditions and/or results of operations. Further, our limited operating history as an integrated company, combined with our short history operating as providers of staffing and cloud-based services, may not provide an adequate basis for investors to evaluate our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and makes accurate financial forecasting difficult for us. Because we operate in the rapidly-evolving telecommunications markets and because our business is rapidly changing due to a series of acquisitions, we may have difficulty in engaging in effective business and financial planning. It may also be difficult for us to evaluate trends that may affect our business and whether our expansion may be profitable. Thus, any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in a more predictable market. If we are unable to sustain our recent revenue growth rates, we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We experienced significant growth in recent years, primarily due to our strategic acquisitions. Our net revenue increased to $17.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2012, from $2.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2011. In order to become profitable and maintain our profitability, we must, among other things, continue to increase our revenues. We may be unable to sustain our recent revenue growth, particularly if we are unable to develop and market our specialty contracting and telecommunications staffing services, increase our sales to existing customers or, develop new customers. However, even if our revenues continue to grow, they may not be sufficient to exceed increases in our operating expenses or to enable us to achieve or sustain profitability. Our inability to obtain additional capital may prevent us from completing our acquisition strategy and successfully operating our business; however, additional financings may subject our existing stockholders to substantial dilution. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue, if ever, we expect to finance our anticipated future strategic acquisitions through public or private equity offerings or debt financings. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more strategic acquisitions or business plans. In addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development and reduce or forego attractive business opportunities. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. In addition, debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. We may seek to access the public or private capital markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Our access to the financial markets and the pricing and terms we receive in the financial markets could be adversely impacted by various factors, including changes in financial markets and interest rates. 21 Our forecasts regarding the sufficiency of our financial resources to support our current and planned operations are forward-looking statements and involve significant risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary as a result of a number of factors, including the factors discussed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could utilize our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the costs and timing of our future acquisitions. If we are unable to raise sufficient equity capital in the next fiscal quarter, we may be unable to consummate our proposed acquisitions of Telco and IPC, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In November 2012, we entered into definitive agreements to acquire Telco and IPC. To consummate such acquisitions, we anticipate we will need to make cash payments at closing in the aggregate amount of approximately $17.5 million in the case of Telco and approximately $18.2 million in the case of IPC. We expect to raise such funds through the sale of shares of our common stock in the public markets. If we are unable to consummate a public offering of our common stock in a timely manner due to market conditions or otherwise, we may breach our purchase obligations under our definitive acquisition agreements relating to Telco and IPC, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We exercise judgment in determining our provision for taxes in the United States and Puerto Rico that are subject to tax authority audit review that could result in additional tax liability and potential penalties that would negatively affect our net income. The amounts we record in intercompany transactions for services, licenses, funding and other items affects our tax liabilities. Our tax filings are subject to review or audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We exercise judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income and other taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Examinations of our tax returns could result in significant proposed adjustments and assessment of additional taxes that could adversely affect our tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Risks Related to our Common Stock An active trading market for our common stock may not develop, and our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” regulations under the Exchange Act. Our common stock is not listed on any national securities exchange. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. The OTCBB is an electronic quotation system that displays real-time quotes, last-sale prices, and volume information for many OTC securities that are not listed on a national securities exchange. Trading volume for our common stock is limited and OTCBB quotations for our common stock price may not represent the true market value of our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to the development of an active public trading market or how liquid that public market may become. Additionally, because the quoted price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, our common stock is considered a “penny stock,” and trading in our common stock is subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act. Under this rule, broker/dealers who recommend low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including making an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receiving the purchaser’s written consent prior to the transaction. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations also require additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a “penny stock,” including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and its associated risks. These requirements severely limit the liquidity of securities in the secondary market because few brokers or dealers are likely to undertake these compliance activities and this limited liquidity will make it more difficult for an investor to sell his shares of our common stock in the secondary market should the investor wish to liquidate the investment. In addition to the applicability of the penny stock rules, other risks associated with trading in penny stocks could also be price fluctuations and the lack of a liquid market. Our stock price has fluctuated widely in recent years, and the trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors and litigation. In addition to changes to market prices based on our results of operations and the factors discussed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section, the market price of and trading volume for our common stock may change for a variety of other reasons, not necessarily related to our actual operating performance. The capital markets have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the average daily trading volume of the securities of small companies can be very low, which may contribute to future volatility. Factors that could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly include: ● the results of operating and financial performance and prospects of other companies in our industry; 22 ● strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; ● announcements of innovations, increased service capabilities, new or terminated customers or new, amended or terminated contracts by our competitors; ● the public’s reaction to our press releases, other public announcements, and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; ● market conditions for providers of services to telecommunications, utilities and cloud services customers; ● lack of securities analyst coverage or speculation in the press or investment community about us or market opportunities in the telecommunications services and staffing industry; ● changes in government policies in the United States and, as our international business increases, in other foreign countries; ● changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities or research analysts who track our common stock or failure of our actual results of operations to meet those expectations; ● market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy; ● changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; ● any lawsuit involving us, our services or our products; ● arrival and departure of key personnel; ● sales of common stock by us, our investors or members of our management team; and ● changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural or man-made disasters. Any of these factors, as well as broader market and industry factors, may result in large and sudden changes in the trading volume of our common stock and could seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. This may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares of our common stock, if at all. In addition, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders often institute securities class action litigation against that company. Our involvement in any class action suit or other legal proceeding could divert our senior management’s attention and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through common stock offerings. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own, collectively, 67.6% of our outstanding common stock, giving effect to the conversion of any preferred stock or other convertible securities held by such officers or directors. If one or more of them were to sell a substantial portion of the shares they hold, it could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, our Series B, C, E, F, G, H and I Preferred Stock are all convertible into common stock. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. As of March 28, 2013, there were also warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,517,766 shares of our common stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $63.89 per share, of which warrants to purchase 749,542 shares at a weighted-average exercise price of $1.25 per share were exercisable as of such date. The conversion of a significant number of our shares of our outstanding preferred stock or exercise of warrants at prices below the market price of our common stock could adversely affect the price of shares of our common stock. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of our capital stock in connection with acquisitions or in connection with other financing efforts. Any issuance of our common stock that is not made solely to then-existing stockholders proportionate to their interests, such as in the case of a stock dividend or stock split, will result in dilution to each stockholder. We are controlled by a small group of our existing stockholders, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. Our executive officers and directors will significantly influence our activities, and their interests may differ from your interests as a stockholder. As of March 28, 2013, our executive officers and directors beneficially own, collectively, 67.6% of our outstanding common stock, giving effect to the conversion of any preferred stock or other convertible securities held by such officers or directors. 23 Accordingly, these stockholders have had, and will continue to have, significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or any other matter submitted for approval to our stockholders, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of our assets, director elections and other significant corporate actions. They will also have significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control of our company. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of these stockholders may differ from your interests as a stockholder, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and certain provisions of Delaware corporate law, as well as certain of our contracts, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Delaware law, as well as our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, contains anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions could lower the price that future investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. These anti-takeover provisions: ● authorize our board of directors to create and issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock, thereby increasing the number of outstanding shares, which can deter or prevent a takeover attempt; ● prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; ● establish a three-tiered classified board of directors requiring that not all members of our board be elected at one time; ● establish a supermajority requirement to amend our amended and restated bylaws and specified provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation; ● prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; ● establish limitations on the removal of directors; ● empower our board of directors to fill any vacancy on our board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; ● provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; ● provide that our directors will be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in the election of directors; ● establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by our stockholders at stockholder meetings; ● limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and ● provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for any derivative action, actions asserting a breach of fiduciary duty and certain other actions against us or any directors or executive officers. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the terms of our stock incentive plans, the terms of our change in control agreements with our senior executives and other contractual provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Section 203 generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the date the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Our stock incentive plans include change-in-control provisions that allow us to grant options or stock purchase rights that may become vested immediately upon a change in control. The terms of changes of control agreements with our senior executives and contractual restrictions with third parties may discourage a change in control of our company. Our board of directors also has the power to adopt a stockholder rights plan that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company even if the change in control is generally beneficial to our stockholders. These plans, sometimes called “poison pills,” are oftentimes criticized by institutional investors or their advisors and could affect our rating by such investors or advisors. If our board of directors adopts such a plan, it might have the effect of reducing the price that new investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Together, these charter, statutory and contractual provisions could make the removal of our management and directors amore difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Furthermore, the existence of the foregoing provisions, as well as the significant common stock beneficially owned by our executive officers, key non-executive officer employees, and members of our board of directors, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. 24 We have never paid cash dividends and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance our operations and growth. As a result, any short-term return on your investment will depend on the market price of our common stock, and only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur, will provide a return to stockholders. The decision whether to pay dividends will be made by our board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including, but not limited to, factors such as our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, and covenants under any applicable contractual arrangements. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts, over whom we have no control, publish about us and our business. We may never obtain research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of our company, the market price for our common stock could decline. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, the market price of our common stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our common stock or if those analysts issue unfavorable commentary, even if it is inaccurate, or cease publishing reports about us or our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 