D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report, before making an investment decision. We also may face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, which may adversely affect our business. In general, you take more risk when you invest in the securities of issuers in emerging markets such as Argentina than when you invest in the securities of issuers in the United States. You should understand that an investment in our common shares and ADSs involves a high degree of risk, including the possibility of loss of your entire investment. Risks Relating to Argentina Argentina’s growth may not be sustainable. The Argentine economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized by periods of low or negative growth, high inflation and currency devaluation. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced a period of severe political, economic and social crisis, which caused a significant economic contraction and led to radical changes in government policies. Although the economy has recovered significantly since then. During 2014, the Argentine economy has shown signs of slowdown due to the increase in the applicable exchange rates and the decrease in the commodity prices. Argentine economy is suffering high inflation and an increasing need of capital investment, with many sectors, particularly the energy sector, operating near full capacity. During 2013, the Argentine GDP increased by 2.9%, according to data published by the National Institute of Statistics (“Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas y Censos” or the “INDEC”). For the six months ended June 30, 2014, GDP increased 0.0% relative to the same period the prior year, according to data published by the INDEC. As of August 30, 2014, the Monthly Economic Activity Estimator (“Estimador Mensual de Actividad Económica” or the “EMAE”) decreased 1.2%, relative to the same period the prior year, according to data published by the INDEC The economic and financial slowdown in certain European countries, the United States, and certain other important commercial partners of Argentina, may imply a decline in the international demand for Argentine products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of operations. Moreover, the country’s relative stability since 2002 has been affected by increased political tension and government intervention in the economy. Additionally, as of the date of this annual report the negotiations of the argentine government with the holdouts of Argentina’s sovereign debt remain unresolved, which may adversely affect the growth of the country. For more information see “Risks Factors Relating to Argentina - Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth.” Our business depends to a significant extent on macroeconomic and political conditions in Argentina. We cannot assure you that Argentina’s recent growth will continue. Deterioration of the country’s economy would likely have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continuing inflation may have an adverse effect on the economy. In fiscal years 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, inflation according to the INDEC was 11.0%, 9.7%, 9.9%, 10.5% and 15.0% (Since January 2014, the Argentine government established a new consumer price index (“IPCNu”) which more broadly reflects consumer prices by considering price information from the 24 provinces of Argentina. Therefore, the consumer price index for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 only takes notice for a six month period after IPCNu was introduced). Until 2013 inflation has been controlled, in part due to actions implemented by the Argentine government to control inflation, including limitations on exports and price arrangements agreed with private companies. During 2014 inflation has accelerated mainly due to the devaluation process carried out by the Argentine Central Bank. The uncertainty surrounding future inflation may impact the country’s growth. In the past, inflation has undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to create conditions conducive to growth. A return to a high inflation environment would adversely affect the availability of long-term credit and the real estate market and may also affect Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the Peso devaluation and negatively impacting the level of economic activity and employment. Additionally, high inflation would also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness and adversely affect economic activity, employment, real salaries, consumption and interest rates. In addition, the dilution of the positive effects of the Peso devaluation on the export-oriented sectors of the Argentine economy will decrease the level of economic activity in the country. In turn, a portion of the Argentine debt is adjusted by the Coefciente de Estabilización de Referencia, (“CER Index”), a currency index that is strongly tied to inflation. Therefore, any significant increase in inflation would cause an increase in Argentina’s debt and, consequently, the country`s financial obligation. The government has taken certain measures in order to control the inflation, such as implementing a fair price program, by virtue of which supermarkets have to offer certain products at a determined price, and sectoral agreements in order to implement salaries increases. Additionally, on September 19, 2014, the Argentine government has amended Law No. 20,680 (the “Supply Law”), which enables the federal government to intervene the markets when it considers that any party to such market is trying to impose prices, or supply restrictions over such market. The Supply Law provides among others pecuniary sanctions, suspension, seizure of operations, and confiscation of goods. If inflation remains high or continues to rise, Argentina’s economy may be negatively impacted and our business could be adversely affected. There are concerns about the accuracy of Argentina’s official inflation statistics. In January 2007, the INDEC modified its methodology used to calculate the consumer price index, which is calculated as the monthly average of a weighted basket of consumer goods and services that reflects the pattern of consumption of Argentine households. Several economists, as well as the international and Argentine press, have suggested that this change in methodology was related to the policy of the Argentine government intended to curb the increase of inflation and consequently reduce payments on the outstanding inflation-linked bonds issued by Argentina. At the time that the INDEC adopted this change in methodology the Argentine government also replaced several key officers at the INDEC, prompting complaints of governmental interference from the technical staff at the INDEC. In addition, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) requested to clarify its inflation rates several times. On November 23, 2010, the Argentine government began consulting with the IMF for technical assistance in order to prepare a new national consumer price index with the aim of modernizing the current statistical system. During the first quarter of 2011, a team from the IMF started working in conjunction with the INDEC in order to create such an index. Notwithstanding the foregoing, reports published by the IMF stated that its staff also used alternative measures of inflation for macroeconomic surveillance, including data produced by private sources, and such measures have shown inflation rates that are considerably higher than those issued by the INDEC since 2007. Consequently, the IMF called on Argentina to adopt improves measures to the quality of used data by the INDEC. In a meeting held on February 1, 2013, the Executive Board of the IMF emphasized that the progress in implementing remedial measures since September 2012 has not been sufficient. As a result, the IMF issued a declaration of censure against Argentina in connection with the breach of its related obligations to the IMF and called on Argentina to adopt remedial measures to address the inaccuracy of inflation and GDP data without further delay. In order to address the quality of official data, the IPCNu was enacted on February 13, 2014. The IPCNu represents the first national indicator to measure changes in prices of final consumption by households. While the previous price index only measured inflation in the Greater Buenos Aires. The IPCNu is calculated by measuring prices on goods across the entire urban population of the 24 provinces of Argentina. Pursuant to these calculations, the new consumer price index rose by 10% during the first quarter of 2014. The IMF has declared that it will review later in 2014 Argentina’s reports on progress in revising its inflation and gross domestic product statistics. 4 Notwithstanding the aforementioned, there are private reports implying significantly higher inflation rates than the official reports of the INDEC. In January 2014, the INDEC decided to change the measurement procedure with the IPCNu, even though there are still noticeable differences between the figures resulting from this indicator and those recorded by private consultants, the Argentinian Congress and the provincial statistic agencies. The ability of Argentina to access credit in the capital markets could be limited not only by the global economic conditions, the current negotiations of Argentina with the holdouts, but also by the uncertainty relating to the inaccuracy of the economic indexes and rates in question which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions. Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth. Between 2005 and 2010, Argentina restructured part of its sovereign debt that had been in default since the end of 2001. As a result of the restructuring the Argentine government announced that it had approximately US$ 129.2 billion in total gross public debt, restructuring over 92.4% of the defaulted debt eligible for the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers. Certain bondholders that did not participate in that restructuring, mainly from the United States, Italy and Germany, filed legal actions against Argentina in order to collect on the defaulted bonds. Many of these proceedings are still pending as of the date of this annual report and holdout creditors may initiate new suits in the future, which may impose in precautionary measures on assets outside of Argentina. On January 3, 2006, Argentina repaid in full its debt of approximately US$ 9.8 billion with the IMF. In September 2008, Argentina announced its intention to cancel its external public debt to Paris Club creditor nations using reserves of the Central Bank in an amount equal to approximately US$ 6.5 billion. In 2010, the Argentine Government announced a new round of negotiations with the Paris Club to cancel such debt, which then totaled approximately US$ 8.0 billion, without the intervention of the IMF. In May 2014, the Argentine Government agreed with the Paris Club concerning the consolidated amount of debt that on 30 April, 2014 rose to US$ 9.7 billion, that it will be cancelled completely within the next 5 years, with an initial payment in principal of US$ 659 million in June, 2014. The agreed sum for interest amounts to 3% for capital balances during the first 5 years, while the agreement also establishes a minimum payment that will face Argentina each year and determines a payment criteria if additional investments come from member countries of the Paris Club. The agreement also provides that if during the period of 5 years additional investments are insufficient, Argentina may delay the payments two years totaling seven years later, with the consequent increase in the financial cost of around an additional 1% for the total period. In addition, foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies have filed claims before the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (“ICSID”) alleging that certain government measures adopted during the country’s 2001 crisis were inconsistent with the fair and equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. Since May 2005, the ICSID tribunals have issued several awards against Argentina. Only the cases “CMS v. Argentina”, “Azurix v. Argentina” and “Vivendi v. Argentina” are currently final. As the date of this annual report, there are still 45 complaints filed by the ICSID against Argentina which are yet to be resolved and whose outcome is still unknown. Moreover, under the arbitration rules of the Commission of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law ("UNCITRAL"), certain arbitral courts condemned Argentina to pay to British Gas (shareholder gas company Metrogas Argentina), and National Grid plc. (Transener’s shareholder, the transport company for argentine electricity). Argentina filed with the Federal District Court of the United States of America for the District of Columbia ordering cancellation of both rulings. The annulment of the ruling in relation to National Grid plc. was rejected by the District Court. Furthermore, on March 5, 2014 the Supreme Court of the United States delivered its judgment regarding the appeal filed by British Gas to the judgment of the Court of Appeals in Washington, rejecting the request made by British Gas based on the fact that it must have incurred the courts of Argentina prior to the commencement of the arbitral body established in 2002. The judgment of the Supreme Court of the United States, by a vote of 7-2, reversed the decision of the Court of Appeal of Washington and ordered Argentina to pay the sum of US$ 185 million in compensation for paying the debt back in a foreign currency to the British company, then controlling Metrogas, during the crisis of 2002 and as a consequence the freezing of fees charged by the Government to Metrogas. At the date of issue of this annual report , the Argentine Government made no public statements relating to the way the country should give effect to the judgment against it. During the month of October 2013, the Argentine Government reached an agreement with five companies – four of which litigate in the ICSID (CMS Gas, Azurix, Vivendi and Continental Casualty) and the fifth, National Grid, litigating under the arbitration rules of the UNCITRAL, whereby Argentina made the payment to which it was permitted a cut of 25%, engaging companies to invest in public securities issued by the Argentine government, among others. At the end of December 2012, Argentina filed a request with the applicable district court in New York in order to reopen the restructuring of its defaulted debt to some of the holdouts who were left out of previous exchanges. This exchange offer was part of a filing made by Argentina in the New York Court of Appeal requesting the review of the judgment made by the judge which ordered Argentina to pay US$1.3 billion with interest in favor of the holdouts. Argentina also said in its presentation (which was in the same terms and conditions of the 2010 restructuring), that referred judgment violated the pari passu clause. On September 23, 2013, Law No. 26,886 (the “2013 Restructuring Law”) was enacted. The 2013 Restructuring Law provides that holders of government securities that were eligible for the 2005-2010 restructuring, if willing could participate in a new restructuring, waiving all their rights under these securities they hold, including those recognized by judicial or administrative judgments, or arbitrary rulings, releasing Argentina from any judicial, administrative, arbitral proceedings or otherwise, initiated or to be initiated in the future with respect to such securities or obligations arising in a new restructuring therfrom, including any action destined to receive service of capital or interest of such securities. Also 2013 Restructuring Law states that the financial terms and conditions offered may not be better than those offered to creditors in 2003-2010 restructuring. The holdouts have obtained favorable judgments ordering the payment of owed original capital with interest, and compliance with the pari passu clause concerning future payments. Such decisions were appealed by Argentina. The Court of Appeal of New York confirmed the same on several occasions, and ordered Argentina to pay US$ 1.3 billion with interest accrued from the date of judgment in favor of the holdouts, suspending the execution of the judgment at first instance until the Supreme Court of Justice of the United States pronounce it. The chamber´s judgment (equal to the judgment of first instance) has a "stay", this being an injunction suspending the payment. The chamber´s judgment was appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States, who on January 10, 2014 agreed to take the case. On June 16, 2014 the Supreme Court of the United States refused to address the Argentine case against holdouts by debt default and removed the "stay". The decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of the United States to dismiss the appeals filed by the Argentine government confirmed the decisions of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan, which in principle requires the Argentine goverment to pay US$ 1.3 billion enabling other holdouts to request their payment on the same terms (estimated at a total of approximately US$ 15 billion). While the Argentine government has indicated on several occasions its intention to pay the full amount to the creditors who accepted the terms of 2003-2010 restructuring, the decisions of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan, confirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States of America, implies that any potential payment of restructured debt, which is not accompanied by a payment to the funds obtained in the aforementioned rulings could be repossessed. On June 30, 2014 the payment of the coupon of the Discount bonds expired. The government wired the respective sums of money to the trustee of such bonds in order to perform the payment, but the court blocked such payment. On July 30, 2014 the grace period under the terms of such bonds expired, notwithstanding the foregoing and the payment has not yet been performed as of the date of this annual report as a consequence of not reinstating the stay and preventing banks from transferring funds deposited by Argentina, which are requesting the payment of funds together with the payment to restructured bondholders. 5 On September 11, 2014 the Argentine government enacted Law No. 26,984 by which changed the paying agent of the 2003-2010 restructuring, and establishing Buenos Aires as the domicile of payment for the bonds issued under each restructuring. With this law the government seeks to create a new voluntary exchange of restructured debt. Additionally, during August, 2014 the Argentine Central Bank revoked the authorization of Bank of New York Mellon to act in Argentina, the current payment agent of Argentina´s sovereign debt. In September 29, 2014, Thomas Griesa proclaimed to Argentina in contempt, considering that ignored the payment ordered to the holdouts. During August and September 2014, the District Court of the Southern District of New York, authorized Citibank N.A. to pay creditors who held debt issued under Argentine Law but payable on New York. As of the date of this annual report, it is still under analysis of the District Court of the Southern District of New York the possibility for a third exception to be made on December 2014 in order to allow payment. However, motions filed by debt holders under U.S., European or Japanese law to allow payment by Citibank N.A. where rejected. The lawsuits filed by the holdouts against the Argentina government could result in the freezing or precautionary measures taken on assets of, or that are considered of, Argentina, that could be able to have a materially adverse effect on the economy of the country and affect our ability to access international financing or repay our debts. As a result of Argentina’s failure to restructure completely its remaining sovereign debt and fully negotiate with the holdout creditors, the Argentine government may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster economic growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy and, consequently, our businesses and results of operations. Furthermore, Argentina’s inability to obtain credit in international markets could have a direct impact on our own ability to access international credit markets to finance our operations and growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During both debt restructuration proceedings carried out by Argentine government on 2005 and 2010, a termination of the rights upon future offers clause (the “RUFO Clause”) was incorporated. The RUFO Clause states that if any debt holder receives any improvement, every other debt holder is entitled to receive the same conditions. The payment to the holdouts could potentially be interpreted as a condition for the application of such clause and allow the rest of the debt holders to claim the amount originally owed to them. After December 31, 2014, once the RUFO clause expires, the Argentine government could be in condition to make any potential offer to the holdouts, without receiving any potential reclaim from the rest of the bond holders.. Significant fluctuation in the value of the Peso may adversely affect the Argentine economy as well as our financial performance. Despite the positive effects of the real depreciation of the Peso in 2002 on the competitiveness of certain sectors of the Argentine economy, it has also had a far-reaching negative impact on the Argentine economy and on businesses and individuals’ financial condition. The devaluation of the Peso has had a negative impact on the ability of Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, initially led to very high inflation, significantly reduced real wages, had a negative impact on businesses whose success is dependent on domestic market demand, such as utilities and the financial industry, and adversely affected the government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. During January and October 2014, the Argentine government has devaluated significantly the Peso. If the Peso continues to devaluate significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences on our business. Moreover, it would likely result in a material adverse effect in our business as a result of the exposure to financial commitments in US Dollar. On the other hand, a substantial increase in the value of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy. The appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar negatively impacts the financial condition of entities whose foreign currency denominated assets exceed their foreign currency-denominated liabilities, such as us. In addition, in the short term, a significant real appreciation of the Peso would adversely affect exports. This could have a negative effect on GDP growth and employment as well as reduce the Argentine public sector’s revenues by reducing tax collection in real terms, given its current heavy reliance on taxes on exports. The appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar could have an adverse effect on the Argentine economy and our business. Certain measures that may be taken by the Argentine government may adversely affect the Argentine economy and, as a result, our business and results of operations During recent years, the Argentine government has increased its direct intervention in the economy, including through the implementation of expropriation and nationalization measures, price controls and exchange controls. In November 2008, the Argentine government enacted Law No. 26,425 which provided for the nationalization of the Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones (the “AFJPs”). More recently, beginning in April 2012, the Argentine government provided for the nationalization of YPF S.A. and imposed major changes to the system under which oil companies operate, principally through the enactment of Law No. 26,741 and Decree No. 1277/2012. In February 2014, the Argentine government and Repsol (which was the principal shareholder of YPF S.A.) announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of the compensation payable to Repsol for the expropriation of the YPF S.A. shares. Such compensation totals US$ 5 billion, payable by delivery of Argentine sovereign bonds with various maturities. Additionally, on December 19, 2012, the Argentine government issued Decree No. 2552/2012 which, in its article 2, ordered the expropriation of the “Predio Rural de Palermo”. However, on January 4, 2013, the Federal Civil and Commercial Chamber granted an injunction that has temporarily blocked the application of Decree No. 2,552/2012. This Decree may indirectly affect our investment in Entertainment Holding S.A. (“EHSA”) (For more information see Item 4 – A. History and Development of the Company – Significant acquisitions, disposition and development of businesses “La Rural”). We cannot assure you that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine government, such as expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, new taxation policies, changes in laws, regulations and policies affecting foreign trade, investment, etc., will not have a material adverse effect on the Argentine economy and, as a consequence, adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs The Argentine government may order salary increases to be paid to employees in the private sector, which would increase our operating costs. In the past, the Argentine government has passed laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to maintain minimum wage levels and provide specified benefits to employees and may do so again in the future. In the aftermath of the Argentine economic crisis, employers both in the public and private sectors have experienced significant pressure from their employees and labor organizations to increase wages and to provide additional employee benefits. Due to the high levels of inflation, the employees and labor organizations have begun again demanding significant wage increases. It is possible that the Argentine government could adopt measures mandating salary increases and/or the provision of additional employee benefits in the future. Any such measures could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Exchange controls and restrictions on transfers abroad and capital inflow restrictions have limited, and can be expected to continue to limit, the availability of international credit. In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. On June 2005, the government issued decree No. 616/2005, which established additional controls on capital inflow, including the requirement that, subject to limited exemptions, 30% of all funds remitted to Argentina remain deposited in a domestic financial institution for one year without earning any interest. On October 2011, new exchange controls measures that restrict foreign exchange inflows and outflows of capital have been implemented, among them it was established as a requirement for the repatriation of the direct investment of the non-resident (purchase of shares of local companies and real estate), the demonstration of the income of the currency and its settlement in the single free exchange market “Mercado Único y Libre de Cambios” or “MULC”. This measure increases the cost of obtaining foreign funds and limits access to such financing. 6 Additionally, on July 12, 2012, the Argentine Central Bank issued Communication “A” 5318, which among others, suspended the access to MULC for residents for external assets without a specific purpose. Through resolution 3210/2011 of the AFIP and the Communications "A" 5239, 5240, 5242 and 5245 and its amendments of the Argentine Central Bank, the "Consultation of Exchange Operations Programme," was established, a system by which an assessment will be made at the time of each transaction, in order to have the possibility to acquired US Dollars for tourism purpose. The system analyze the consistency with tax information of each currency buyer, and validate or invalidate the transaction. In January 2014, the Argentine Central Bank established by Communication "A" 5526 that the resident individuals in the country will be able to access the local exchange market for purchases made by the concept "buy for the possession of foreign currency in the country" according to their income declared to the AFIP and other quantitative parameters established in the framework of exchange rate policy. In this sense, the AFIP established through its General Resolution No. 3583/2014 a parameter of 20% of the monthly income of the taxpayer validating the exchange transaction, with a minimum amount of monthly income of Ps. 7,200 (two minimum, living and mobile wages) and a monthly cap of US$ 2,000. The purchase amount that individuals can access this concept can be found through the “Exchange Operations Consultation Program", available on the corporate website of the AFIP. Additionally, on July 10, 2014, by means of Communication "A" 5604, the Argentine Central Bank amended Communication "A" 5526 (which regulates access to MULC by residents for the purchase of foreign currency for their application to specific destinations in local assets) establishing the possibility that local governments and/or residents of the nonfinancial private sector issue new bonds and other debt securities with a public offering, can access the MULC simultaneously to the liquidation of the funds they receive for these emissions, to purchase foreign currency notes, for up to 90% of the amount liquidated in the MULC. To do this, they must meet the other requirements in the Communication "A" 5604 and allocate foreign currency acquired for determined purposes. On October 9, 2014, such situation was extended to the funds received from external financial loans and direct investments under Communication “A” 5643. The Argentine government may, in the future, impose additional controls on the foreign exchange market and on capital flows from and into Argentina, in response to capital flight or depreciation of the Peso. These restrictions may have a negative effect on the economy and on our business if imposed in an economic environment where access to local capital is constrained. For more information, please see Item 10 (d) “Exchange Controls”. Payment of dividends to non-residents has been limited in the past and may be limited again. Beginning in February 2002, the payment of dividends, irrespective of amount, outside Argentina required prior authorization from the Argentine Central Bank. On January 7, 2003, the Argentine Central Bank issued communication “A” 3859, which is still in force and pursuant to which there are no limitations on companies’ ability to purchase foreign currency and transfer it outside Argentina to pay dividends, provided that those dividends arise from net earnings corresponding to approved and audited financial statements. In spite of the lack of restriction to access the MULC in order to transfer those profits, there might be delays to exchange them for U.S. Dollars or any other currency and the consequent transfer of the earnings to the shareholders. In the future, Government or the Argentine Central Bank could impose new restrictions to the payment of dividends abroad and established additional requirements. Any restrictions on transferring funds abroad imposed by the government could undermine the ability of the holders of our ADSs to collect dividend payments. Property values in Argentina could decline significantly. Property values are influenced by multiple factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that property values will increase or that they will not be reduced. Many of the properties we own are located in Argentina. As a result, a reduction in the value of properties in Argentina could materially affect our business. The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other global markets. Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other global markets. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into other countries, including. Lower capital inflows and declining securities prices negatively affect the real economy of a country through higher interest rates or currency volatility. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including those in Mexico in 1994, the collapse of several Asian economies between 1997 and 1998, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation in January 1999. In addition, Argentina is also affected by the economic conditions of major trade partners, such as Brazil and/or countries that have influence over world economic cycles, such as the United States. If interest rates rise significantly in developed economies, including the United States, Argentina and other emerging market economies could find it more difficult and expensive to borrow capital and refinance existing debt, which would negatively affect their economic growth. In addition, if these developing countries, which are also Argentina’s trade partners, fall into a recession the Argentine economy would be affected by a decrease in exports. All of these factors would have a negative impact on us, our business, operations, financial condition and prospects. 7 Moreover, several European Union members have been obliged to reduce their public expenditures due to their high indebtedness rates, which had a negative impact on the economy of the Euro zone. The situation of global economics on Argentina could imply in a reduction in the exports and foreign direct investment, and a decline in the national tax revenues and the inability to access to the international capital markets, which could adversely affect our business and results of our operations. If prices for Argentina’s main commodity exports decline, such decline could have an adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth and on our business. Argentina’s economy has historically relied on the export of commodities, the prices of which have been volatile in the past and largely outside its control. Argentina’s recovery from the financial crisis in 2001 and 2002 has depended to a significant extent on the rise in commodity prices, particularly prices of its main commodity exports, such as soybeans. High commodity prices have contributed significantly to government revenues from taxes on exports. Fluctuations in prices for commodities exported by Argentina and a significant increase in the value of the Peso (in real terms) may reduce Argentina’s competitiveness and significantly affect the country’s exports. During 2014, global commodity prices have presented a significant drop. A decrease in exports could affect Argentina’s economy, have a material adverse effect on public finances due to a loss of tax revenues, cause an imbalance in the country’s exchange market which, in turn, could lead to increased volatility with respect to the exchange rate. In addition, and more importantly in the short term, a significant appreciation of the Peso could materially reduce the Argentine government’s revenues in real terms and affect its ability to make payments on its debt obligations, as these revenues are heavily derived from export taxes (withholdings). This could worsen the financial condition of the Argentine public sector, which could adversely affect the Argentine economy, as well as our financial condition and operating results. Restrictions on the supply of energy could negatively affect Argentina’s economy. As a result of prolonged recession, and the forced conversion into Pesos and subsequent freeze of gas and electricity tariffs in Argentina, there has been a lack of investment in gas and electricity supply and transport capacity in Argentina in recent years. At the same time, demand for natural gas and electricity has increased substantially, driven by a recovery in economic conditions and price constraints, which has prompted the government to adopt a series of measures that have resulted in industry shortages and/or costs increase. In particular, Argentina has been importing gas in order to compensate the shortage in local production. In order to pay for those importations the Argentine government has frequently used the Argentine Central Bank reserves due to absence of incoming currencies from investment. If the government is unable to pay for the gas import in order to produce electricity, business and industries may be affected. The federal government has been taking a number of measures to alleviate the short-term impact of energy shortages on residential and industrial users. If these measures prove to be insufficient, or if the investment that is required to increase natural gas production and transportation capacity and energy generation and transportation capacity over the medium-and long-term fails to materialize on a timely basis, economic activity in Argentina could be curtailed which may have a significant adverse effect on our business. As a first step of these measures, subsidies on energy tariffs were withdrawn to industries and high income consumers. Additionally, since 2011, a series of rate increases and the reduction of subsidies mainly amongst industries and high-income consumers occurred. As a result, energy costs raised significantly, which could affect substantially and adversely the Argentine economy, as well as business operations and results of our transactions. Risks Relating to Our Business We are subject to risks inherent to the operation of shopping centers that may affect our profitability. Shopping centers are subject to various factors that affect their development, administration and profitability. These factors include: • decline in our lease prices or increases in levels of default by our tenants due to recessions, increases in interest rates and other factors that we cannot control; • the accessibility and the attractiveness of the area where the shopping center is located; • the intrinsic attractiveness of the shopping center; • the flow of people and the level of sales of each shopping center rental unit; • increasing competition from internet sales; • the amount of rent collected from each shopping center rental unit; • changes in consumer demand and availability of consumer credit (considering the limits impose by the Argentine Central Bank to interest rates charged by financial institutions), both of which are highly sensitive to general macroeconomic conditions; and • the fluctuations in occupancy levels in the shopping centers. An increase in our operating costs, caused by inflation or by other factors, could have a material adverse effect on us if our tenants are unable to pay higher rent due to the increase in expenses. Moreover, the shopping center business is closely related to consumer spending and to the economy in which customers are located. All of our shopping centers are in Argentina, and, as a consequence, their business could be seriously affected by a recession in Argentina. For example, during the economic crisis in Argentina, spending decreased significantly, unemployment, political instability and inflation significantly reduced consumer spending in Argentina, lowering tenants’ sales and forcing some tenants to leave our shopping centers. If the international financial crisis has a substantial impact on economic activity in Argentina, it will likely have a material adverse effect on the revenues from the shopping center activity and thus on our business. Our performance is subject to risks associated with our properties and with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets are subject to the risk that our properties may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to service our debt and to cover other expenses may be adversely affected. Events or conditions beyond our control that may adversely affect our operations or the value of our properties include: • downturns in the national, regional and local economic climate; • volatility and decline in discretionary spending; • competition from other shopping centers; • local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand for retail space; • decreases in consumption levels; • changes in interest rates and availability of financing; • the exercise by our tenants of their legal right to early termination of their leases; • vacancies, changes in market rental rates and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space; • increased operating costs, including insurance expense, salary increases, utilities, real estate taxes, state and local taxes and heightened security costs; • civil disturbances, earthquakes and other natural disasters, or terrorist acts or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; • significant expenditures associated with each investment, such as debt service payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs which are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in revenues from a property; • declines in the financial condition of our tenants and our ability to collect rents from our tenants; • changes in our ability or our tenants’ ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance, possibly decreasing the useful life of and revenue from property; and • changes in law or governmental regulations (such as those governing usage, zoning and real property taxes) or government action such as expropriation or confiscation. If any one or more of the foregoing conditions were to affect our business, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 8 An adverse economic environment for real estate companies and the credit crisis may adversely impact our results of operations and business prospects significantly. The success of our business and profitability of our operations are dependent on continued investment in the real estate markets and access to capital and debt financing. A long term crisis of confidence in real estate investments and lack of credit for acquisitions may tend to constrain our business growth. As part of our business goals, we intend to increase our properties portfolio with strategic acquisitions of core properties at advantageous prices, and core plus and value added properties where we believe we can bring necessary expertise to enhance property values. In order to pursue acquisitions, we may need access to equity capital and/or debt financing. Recent disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of major financial institutions, may adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt and the availability and cost of credit in the near future. Any consideration of sales of existing properties or portfolio interests may be tempered by decreasing property values. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness depends on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions. If a recurrence of the disruptions in financial markets remain in the future, there can be no assurances that government responses to such disruptions will restore investor confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. The loss of significant tenants could adversely affect both the operating revenues and value of our properties. If certain of our most important tenants were to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn of business, or if we simply failed to retain their patronage, our business could be adversely affected. Our shopping centers are typically anchored by significant tenants, such as well-known department stores who generate shopping traffic at the mall. A decision by such significant tenants to cease operations at our shopping centers could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of the affected segment and, by extension, on our financial condition and results of our operations. The closing of one or more significant tenants may induce other major tenants at an affected property to terminate their leases, to seek rent relief and/or cease operating their stores or otherwise adversely affect occupancy at the property. In addition, key tenants at one or more properties might terminate their leases as a result of mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, dispositions or bankruptcies in the retail industry. The bankruptcy and/or closure of one or more significant tenants, if we are not able to successfully re-lease the affected space, could have a material adverse effect on both the operating revenues and underlying value of the properties involved. Our future acquisitions may be unprofitable. We intend to acquire additional shopping center properties to the extent that they will be acquired on advantageous terms and conditions, and meet our investment criteria. Acquisitions of commercial properties entail general investment risks associated with any real estate investment, including: • our estimates of the cost of improvements needed to bring the property up to established standards for the market may prove to be inaccurate; • properties we acquire may fail to achieve within the time frames we project the occupancy or rental rates we project at the time we make the decision to acquire, which may result in the properties’ failure to achieve the returns we projected; • our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs; and • our investigation of a property or building prior to its acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition cost. If we acquire a business, we will be required to merge and integrate the operations, personnel, accounting and information systems of such acquired business. In addition, acquisitions of or investments in companies may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention away from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current tenants and employees. We may face risks associated with property acquisitions. We have in the past acquired, and intend to acquire in the future, properties, including large properties that would increase our size and potentially alter our capital structure. Although we believe that the acquisitions that we have completed in the past and that we expect to undertake in the future have, and will, enhance our future financial performance, the success of such transactions is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the risk that: • we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms; • acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; • the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than our estimates; • acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, absence of business relationships in the area or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and If we acquire new properties; we may not be able to efficiently integrate acquired properties, particularly portfolios of properties, into our organization and to manage new properties in a way that allows us to realize cost savings and synergies, which could impair our results of operations. 9 Some of the land we have purchased is not zoned for development purposes, and we may be unable to obtain, or may face delays in obtaining the necessary zoning permits and other authorizations. We own several plots of land which are not zoned for the type of projects we intend to develop. In addition, we do not yet have the required land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in our attempts to rezone land and to obtain all necessary permits and authorizations, or that rezoning efforts and permit requests will not be unreasonably delayed or rejected. Moreover, we may be affected by building moratorium and anti-growth legislation. If we are unable to obtain all of the governmental permits and authorizations we need to develop our present and future projects as planned, we may be forced to make unwanted modifications to such projects or abandon them altogether. Our ability to grow will be limited if we cannot obtain additional capital. Our growth strategy is focused on the development and redevelopment of properties we already own and the acquisition and development of additional properties. As a result, we are likely to depend to an important degree on the availability of debt or equity capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We cannot guarantee that additional financing, refinancing or other capital will be available in the amounts we desire or on favorable terms. Our access to debt or equity capital markets depends on a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential, our ability to pay dividends, our financial condition, our credit rating and our current and potential future earnings. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption since the last credit crisis. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and market conditions, the availability of credit, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our prospects or the industry generally. We may not be able to successfully obtain any necessary additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Serious illnesses and pandemics, such as the 2009 outbreak of Influenza A H1N1 virus (the “Swine Flu”), have in the past adversely affected consumer and tourist activity, may do so in the future and may adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of the outbreak of Swine Flu during the winter of 2009, consumers and tourists dramatically changed their spending and travel habits to avoid contact with crowds. Furthermore, several governments’ enacted regulations limiting the operation of schools, cinemas and shopping centers. Even though the Argentine government only issued public service recommendations to the population regarding the risks involved in visiting crowded places, such as shopping centers, and did not issue specific regulations limiting access to public places, a significant number of consumers nonetheless changed their habits vis-a-vis shopping centers and malls. In addition, as of the date of this annual report, a remote but possible outbreak of ebola may endanger our activities if such outbreak actually occurs and the government decides to take measures to limit interaction between large concentrations of people. We cannot assure you that a new outbreak or health hazard will not occur in the future, or that such an outbreak or health hazard would not significantly affect consumer and/or tourist activity, and that such scenario would not adversely affect our businesses. Adverse incidents that occur in our shopping centers may result in damage to our image and a decrease in the number of our customers. Given that shopping centers are open to the public, with ample circulation of people, accidents, theft, robbery and other incidents may occur in our facilities, regardless of the preventative measures we adopt. In the event such an incident or series of incidents occurs, shopping center customers and visitors may choose to visit other shopping venues that they believe are safer and less violent, which may cause a reduction in the sales volume and operating income of our shopping centers. Argentine Lease Law No. 23,091 imposes restrictions that limit our flexibility. Argentine laws governing leases impose certain restrictions, including the following: • lease agreements may not contain inflation adjustment clauses based on consumer price indexes or wholesale price indexes. Although many of our lease agreements contain readjustment clauses, these are not based on an official index nor do they reflect the inflation index. In the event of litigation these provisions may not be enforceable and therefore it may be impossible for us to adjust the amounts owed to us under our lease agreements; • residential leases must comply with a mandatory minimum term of two years and retail leases must comply with a mandatory minimum term of three years except in the case of stands and/or spaces for special exhibitions; • lease terms may not exceed ten years, except for leases regulated by Law No. 25,248 (which provides that leases containing a purchase option are not subject to term limitations); and • tenants may rescind commercial and office lease agreements after the initial six-month period. As a result of the foregoing, we are exposed to the risk of increases of inflation under our leases and the exercise of rescission rights by our tenants could materially and adversely affect our business and we cannot assure you that our tenants will not exercise such right, especially if rent values stabilize or decline in the future or if economic conditions deteriorate. Eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time consuming. Although Argentine law permits a summary proceeding to collect unpaid rent and a special proceeding to evict tenants, eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time-consuming. Historically, the heavy workloads of the courts and the numerous procedural steps required have generally delayed landlords’ efforts to evict tenants. Eviction proceedings generally take between six months and two years from the date of filing of the suit to the time of actual eviction. We have usually attempted to negotiate the termination of lease agreements with defaulting tenants after the first few months of non-payment in order to avoid legal proceedings. Delinquency may increase significantly in the future, and such negotiations with tenants may not be as successful as they have been in the past. Moreover, new Argentine laws and regulations may forbid or restrict eviction, and in each such case they would likely have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Our investment in property development, redevelopment and construction activities may be less profitable than we anticipate. We are engage in the development and construction of shopping centers and residential apartment complexes, frequently through third-party contractors. Risks associated with our development, re-development and constructions activities include the following, among others: • abandonment of development opportunities and renovation proposals; • construction costs of a project may exceed our original estimates for reasons including raises in interest rates or increases in the costs of materials and labor, making a project unprofitable; • occupancy rates and rents at newly completed properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, resulting in lower than projected rental rates and a corresponding lower return on our investment; • pre-construction buyers may default on their purchase contracts or units in new buildings may remain unsold upon completion of construction; • the unavailability of favorable financing alternatives in the private and public debt markets; • sale prices for residential units may be insufficient to cover development costs; • construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; • impossibility to obtain, delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, or building moratoria and anti-growth legislation; • significant time lags between the commencement and completion of projects subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuation in the general economy; • construction may not be completed on schedule because of a number of factors, including weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters (such as fires, hurricanes, earthquakes or floods), resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; and • we may incur capital expenditures that could result in considerable time consuming efforts and which may never be completed due to government restrictions. In addition, we may face contractors’ claims for the enforcement of labor laws in Argentina (sections 30, 31, 32 under Law No. 20,744), which provide for joint and several liability. Many companies in Argentina hire personnel from third-party companies that provide outsourced services, and sign indemnity agreements in the event of labor claims from employees of such third company that may affect the liability of such hiring company. However, in recent years several courts have denied the existence of independence in those labor relationships and declared joint and several liabilities for both companies. While our policies with respect to expansion, renovation and development activities are intended to limit some of the risks otherwise associated with such activities, we are nevertheless subject to risks associated with the construction of properties, such as cost overruns, design changes and timing delays arising from a lack of availability of materials and labor, weather conditions and other factors outside of our control, as well as financing costs, may exceed original estimates, possibly making the associated investment unprofitable. Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these redevelopment projects and harm our operating results. 10 We are subject to great competitive pressure. Our development activities are highly concentrated in the Buenos Aires metropolitan area, where the real estate market is highly competitive due to a scarcity of properties in sought-after locations and the increasing number of local and international competitors. Furthermore, the Argentine real estate industry is generally highly competitive and fragmented and does not have high barriers to entry restricting new competitors from entering the market. The main competitive factors in the real estate development business include availability and location of land, price, funding, design, quality, reputation and partnerships with developers. A number of residential and commercial developers and real estate services companies compete with us in seeking land for acquisition, financial resources for development and prospective purchasers and tenants. Other companies, including joint ventures of foreign and local companies, have become increasingly active in the real estate business and shopping center business in Argentina, further increasing this competition. To the extent that one or more of our competitors are able to acquire and develop desirable properties, as a result of greater financial resources or otherwise, our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to respond to such pressures as promptly as our competitors, or the level of competition increases, our financial condition and results of our operations could be adversely affected. All of our shopping center properties are located in Argentina. There are other shopping centers and numerous smaller retail stores and residential properties within the market area of each of our properties. The number of competing properties in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease retail space in our shopping centers or sell units in our residential complexes and on the amount of rent or the sale price that we are able to charge. To date, there have been relatively few companies competing with us for shopping center properties. However, if additional companies become active in the Argentine shopping center market in the future, such competition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our assets are highly concentrated in certain geographic areas and an economic downturn in such areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014, 79.6% of our sales from leases and services were derived from shopping centers in the City of Buenos Aires and the Greater Buenos Aires. Although we own properties and may acquire or develop additional properties outside of the City of Buenos Aires and the Greater Buenos Aires, we expect to continue to depend to a very large extent on economic conditions affecting those areas and therefore, an economic downturn in those areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our dependence on rental income may adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations. The substantial majority of our income is derived from rental income from real property. As a result, our performance depends on our ability to collect rent from tenants. Our income and funds for distribution would be negatively affected if a significant number of our tenants, or any of our major tenants (as discussed in more detail below): • Delay lease commencements; • Decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration; • Fail to make rental payments when due; or • Close stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenant’s leases and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases. In addition, we cannot be sure that any tenant whose lease expires will renew that lease or that we will be able to re-lease space on economically advantageous terms. The loss of rental revenues from a number of our tenants and our inability to replace such tenants may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to meet debt and other financial obligations in either Pesos or in a foreign currency. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance and certain kinds of insurance coverage may become prohibitively expensive. We currently carry insurance policies that cover potential risks such as civil liability, fire, loss profit, floods, including extended coverage and losses from leases on all of our properties. Although we believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are generally customary, there are certain types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims, terrorism and acts of war that generally are not insured under the insurance policies offered in the national market. Should an insured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot assure you that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Moreover, we do not purchase life or disability insurance for any of our key employees. If any of our key employees were to die or become incapacitated, we could experience losses caused by a disruption in our operations which will not be covered by insurance, and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our insurance coverage in an adequate amount or at reasonable prices. Insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to terrorist acts and mold, or, if offered, these types of insurance may be prohibitively expensive. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from our negligence or intentional misconduct or that of our agents. Tenants are generally required, at the tenant’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. In addition, we cannot assure the holders that the tenants will properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our level of debt may adversely affect our operations and our ability to pay our debt as it becomes due. We had, and expect to have, substantial liquidity and capital resource requirements to finance our business. As of June 30, 2014, our consolidated financial debt amounted to Ps. 1,525.3 million (including accrued and unpaid interests and deferred financing costs). Although we are generating sufficient funds from operating cash flows to satisfy our debt service requirements and our capacity to obtain new financing is adequate given the current availability of credit lines with the banks, we cannot assure you that we will maintain such cash flow and adequate financial capacity in the future. The fact that we are leveraged may affect our ability to refinance existing debt or borrow additional funds to finance working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditures. In addition, the recent disruptions in the global financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of major financial institutions, may adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt and the availability and cost of credit in the future. In such conditions, access to equity and debt financing options may be restricted and it may be uncertain how long these economic circumstances may last. This would require us to allocate a substantial portion of cash flow to repay principal and interest, thereby reducing the amount of money available to invest in operations, including acquisitions and capital expenditures. Our leverage could also affect our competitiveness and limit our ability to changes in market conditions, changes in the real estate industry and economic downturns. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to satisfy our debt service requirements or to obtain future financing. If we cannot satisfy our debt service requirements or if we default on any financial or other covenants in our debt arrangements, the lenders and/or holders of our debt will be able to accelerate the maturity of such debt or cause defaults under the other debt arrangements. Our ability to service debt obligations or to refinance them will depend upon our future financial and operating performance, which will, in part, be subject to factors beyond our control such as macroeconomic conditions (including the recent international credit crisis) and regulatory changes in Argentina. If we cannot obtain future financing, we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our planned capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our ability to generate cash flows and repay our obligations. The recurrence of a credit crisis could have a negative impact on our major customers, which in turn could materially adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. The recent credit crisis had a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. The impact of a crisis on our major tenants cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. A disruption in the ability of our significant tenants to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction their future orders of their products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. The shift of consumers to purchasing goods over the Internet may negatively affect sales in our shopping centers. During the last years, retail sales by means of the Internet have grown significantly in Argentina, even though the market share of Internet sales related to retail sales is still not significant. The Internet enables manufacturers and retailers to sell directly to consumers, diminishing the importance of traditional distribution channels such as retail stores and shopping centers. We believe that our target consumers are increasingly using the Internet, from home, work or elsewhere, to shop electronically for retail goods, and this trend is likely to continue. If e-commerce and retail sales through the Internet continue to grow, consumers’ reliance on traditional distribution channels such as our shopping centers could be materially diminished, having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our business is subject to extensive regulation and additional regulations may be imposed in the future. Our activities are subject to federal, state and municipal laws, and to regulations, authorizations and licenses required with respect to construction, zoning, use of the soil, environmental protection and historical patrimony, consumer protection, antitrust and other requirements, all of which affect our ability to acquire land, buildings and shopping centers, develop and build projects and negotiate with customers. In addition, companies in this industry are subject to increasing tax rates, the creation of new taxes and changes in the taxation regime. We are required to obtain licenses and authorizations with different governmental authorities in order to carry out our projects. Maintaining our licenses and authorizations can be a costly provision. In the case of non-compliance with such laws, regulations, licenses and authorizations, we may face fines, project shutdowns, and cancellation of licenses and revocation of authorizations. In addition, public authorities may issue new and stricter standards, or enforce or construe existing laws and regulations in a more restrictive manner, which may force us to make expenditures to comply with such new rules. Development activities are also subject to risks relating to potential delays in obtaining or an inability to obtain all necessary zoning, environmental, land-use, development, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. Any such delays or failures to obtain such government approvals may have an adverse effect on our business. In the past, the Argentine government imposed strict and burdensome regulations regarding leases in response to housing shortages, high rates of inflation and difficulties in accessing credit. Such regulations limited or prohibited increases on rental prices and prohibited eviction of tenants, even for failure to pay rent. Most of our leases provide that the tenants pay all costs and taxes related to their respective leased areas. In the event of a significant increase in the amount of such costs and taxes, the Argentine government may respond to political pressure to intervene by regulating this practice, thereby negatively affecting our rental income. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not impose similar or other regulations in the future. Changes in existing laws or the enactment of new laws governing the ownership, operation or leasing of properties in Argentina could negatively affect the Argentine real estate market and the rental market and materially and adversely affect our operations and profitability. 12 We are controlled by one principal shareholder. As of June 30, 2014, IRSA Inversiones y Representaciones Sociedad Anónima (“IRSA”), our major shareholder, owned in the aggregate 95.7% of our capital stock. This principal shareholder controls us and has significant influence on the election of our directors and syndics and the outcome of any action requiring shareholder approval. We are dependent on our Board of Directors. Our success, to a significant extent, depends on the continued employment of Eduardo Sergio Elsztain and certain other members of our board of directors and senior management, who have significant expertise and knowledge of our business and industry. The loss or interruption in of his services for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our future success also depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel, or that any of our personnel will remain employed by us. Due to the currency mismatches between our assets and liabilities, we have currency exposure. As of June 30, 2014, the majority of our liabilities, such as our Series I Notes are denominated in U.S. Dollars while our revenues are denominated in Pesos. This currency gap exposes us to a risk of exchange rate volatility, which would negatively affect our financial results if the dollar were to appreciate against the Peso. Any further depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar will correspondingly increase the amount of our debt in Pesos, with further adverse effects on our results of operation and financial condition and may increase the collection risk of our leases and other receivables from our tenants and mortgage debtors, most of whom have Peso-denominated revenues. Risks Relating to our ADSs and our Common Shares. Common shares eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of our common shares and American Depositary Shares (“ADS”) The market prices of our common shares and the ADSs could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of common shares or ADSs in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The ADSs are freely transferable under U.S. securities laws, including common shares sold to our affiliate. IRSA, which as of June 30, 2014 owned approximately 95.7% of our common shares (or approximately 1,206,043,414 common shares which may be exchanged for an aggregate of 30,151,085 ADSs), is free to dispose of any or all of its common shares or ADSs at any time, in its discretion. Sales of a large number of our common shares and/or ADSs would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and the ADSs. We are subject to certain different corporate disclosure requirements and accounting standards than domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States There may be less publicly available information about the issuers of securities listed on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (the “Bolsa de Comercio de Buenos Aires” or “Base”) than is regularly published by or about domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States and certain other countries. We are exempt from the rules under the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Investors may not be able to effect service of process within the U.S., limiting their recovery of any foreign judgment We are a publicly held stock corporation (sociedad anónima) organized under the laws of Argentina. Most of our directors and our senior managers, and most of our assets are located in Argentina. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such persons or to enforce against us or them in United States courts judgments obtained in such courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. There is doubt whether the Argentine courts will enforce, to the same extent and in as timely a manner as a U.S. or foreign court, an action predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or other foreign regulations brought against such persons or against us. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, U.S. Holders of our common shares or ADSs would suffer negative consequences. Based on the current and projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ending June 30, 2014, and we do not currently expect to become a PFIC, although there can be no assurance in this regard. The determination of whether we are a PFIC is made annually. Accordingly, it is possible that we may be a PFIC in the current or any future taxable year due to changes in our asset or income composition or if our projections are not accurate. The volatility and instability of Argentina’s economic and financial system may substantially affect the composition of our income and assets and the accuracy of our projections. In addition, this determination is based on the interpretation of certain U.S. Treasury regulations relating to rental income, which regulations are potentially subject to differing interpretation. If we become a PFIC, U.S. Holders (as defined in “Taxation—United States Taxation”) of our common shares or ADSs will be subject to certain United States federal income tax rules that have negative consequences for U.S. Holders such as additional tax and an interest charge upon certain distributions by us or upon a sale or other disposition of our common shares or ADSs at a gain, as well as reporting requirements. Please see ‘‘Taxation—United States Taxation’’ for a more detailed discussion of the consequences if we are deemed a PFIC. You should consult your own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to your particular circumstances. Holders of our ADSs may be unable to exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares underlying the ADSs at our shareholders’ meetings. We will not treat the holders of our ADSs as one of our shareholders and the holders of our ADSs will not have shareholder rights. The depositary will be the holder of the common shares underlying your ADSs and ADS holders may exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. There are no provisions under Argentine law or under our by-laws that limit the exercise by ADS holders of their voting rights through the depositary with respect to the underlying common shares. However, there are practical limitations on the ability of ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional procedural steps involved in communicating with these holders. For example, holders of our common shares will receive notice of shareholders’ meetings through publication of a notice in an Official Gazette in Argentina, an Argentine newspaper of general circulation and the bulletin of the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange, and will be able to exercise their voting rights by either attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. ADS holders, by comparison, will not receive notice directly from us. Instead, in accordance with the deposit agreement, we will provide the notice to the depositary. The depositary will mail to holders of ADSs the notice of the meeting and a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by holders. To exercise their voting rights, ADS holders must then instruct the depositary as to voting the common shares represented by their ADSs. Due to these procedural steps involving the depositary, the process for exercising voting rights may take longer for ADS holders than for holders of common shares and common shares represented by ADSs may not be voted as their desire. 13 Under Argentine law, shareholder rights may be fewer or less well defined than in other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and by Argentine corporate law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the States of Delaware or New York, or in other jurisdictions outside Argentina. In addition, your rights or the rights of holders of our common shares to protect your or their interests in connection with actions by our board of directors may be fewer and less well defined under Argentine corporate law than under the laws of those other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are illegal under Argentine law, the Argentine securities markets are not as highly regulated or supervised as the U.S. securities markets or markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self—dealing and regarding the preservation of shareholder interests may be less well defined and enforced in Argentina than in the United States, putting holders of our common shares and ADSs at a potential disadvantage. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Argentina are different from and more limited than those in the United States and may be more difficult to enforce. Under Argentine law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and much more limited than, those in the United States and some other Latin American countries. For example, the legal framework with respect to shareholder disputes, such as derivative lawsuits and class actions, is less developed under Argentine law than under U.S. law as a result of Argentina’s short history with these types of claims and few successful cases. In addition, there are different procedural requirements for bringing these types of shareholder lawsuits. As a result, it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. Our shareholders may determine to not pay any dividends. In accordance with Argentine corporate law we may pay dividends to shareholders out of net and realized profits, if any, as set forth in our audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Argentine GAAP. The approval, amount and payment of dividends are subject to the approval by our shareholders at our annual ordinary shareholders meeting. The approval of dividends requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate enough net and realized profits so as to pay dividends or that our shareholders will decide that dividends will be paid. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by law and economic conditions. In accordance with Argentine corporate law, we may pay dividends in Pesos out of retained earnings, if any, to the extent set forth in our audited financial statements. Our ability to generate retained earnings is subject to the results of our operations. During 2014 inflation has accelerated mainly due to the devaluation process carried out by the Argentine Central Bank. The uncertainty surrounding future inflation may affect our results and as a result our ability to pay dividends. If the Peso continues to devaluate significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences on our business and as a result on the results of our operations and our ability to pay dividends. Our shareholders’ ability to receive cash dividends may be limited. Our shareholders’ ability to receive cash dividends may be limited by the ability of the depositary to convert cash dividends paid in Pesos into U.S. Dollars. Under the terms of our deposit agreement with the depositary for the ADSs, to the extent that the ADS depositary can in its judgment, and in accordance with local exchange regulations, convert Pesos (or any other foreign currency) into U.S. Dollars on a reasonable basis and transfer the resulting U.S. Dollars abroad, the ADS depositary will promptly as practicable convert or cause to be converted all cash dividends received by it in Pesos on the deposited securities into U.S. Dollars. If in the judgment of the depositary this conversion is not possible on a reasonable basis (or is not permitted by applicable Argentine laws, regulations and approval requirements), the ADS depositary may distribute the foreign currency received by it in Pesos in Argentina or in its discretion hold such currency uninvested for the respective accounts of the owners entitled to receive the same. As a result, if the exchange rate fluctuates significantly during a time when the depositary cannot convert the foreign currency, you may lose some or all of the value of the dividend distribution. 