Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem insignificant, may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. Economic conditions may negatively impact demand for our products, which could adversely impact our sales and operating profit. In recent years, economic conditions were significantly strained in the United States. Continuing or worsening economic challenges could have a negative impact on our business. Economic uncertainty may result in increased pressure to reduce the prices of some of our products and/or limit our ability to increase or maintain prices. If either of these events occur, or if unfavorable economic conditions continue, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Increases in costs and/or shortages of raw materials, fuels and utilities could adversely impact our profitability. Commodities, such as flour, sweeteners, and shortening, which are used in our bakery products, are subject to price fluctuations. The cost of these inputs may fluctuate widely due to government policies and regulations, weather conditions, domestic and international demand, or other unforeseen circumstances. Any substantial increase in the prices of raw materials may have an adverse impact on our profitability. We enter into forward purchase agreements and other derivative financial instruments from time to time to manage the impact of such volatility in raw materials prices; however, these strategies may not be adequate to overcome increases in market prices. Our failure to enter into effective hedging arrangements or any decrease in the availability or increase in the cost of these agreements and instruments could increase the price of these raw materials and significantly affect our earnings. In addition, we are dependent upon natural gas for firing ovens. Our independent distributors and third-party shipping companies are dependent upon gasoline and diesel for their vehicles. Substantial future increases in prices for, or shortages of, these fuels could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that we can cover these cost increases through future pricing actions. Also, as a result of these pricing actions, consumers could purchase less or move from purchasing high-margin branded products to lower-margin store brands. Competition could adversely impact revenues and profitability. The United States bakery industry is highly competitive. Competition is based on product availability, product quality, price, effective promotions, and the ability to target changing consumer preferences. We experience price pressure from time to time due to competitors’ promotional activity and other pricing efforts. This pricing pressure is particularly strong during adverse economic periods. Increased competition could result in reduced sales, margins, profits and market share. We rely on several large customers for a significant portion of our sales and the loss of one of our large customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have several large customers that account for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of one of our large customers could adversely affect our results of operations. Our top ten customers accounted for 45.6% 10 Table of Contents of our sales during fiscal 2011. Our largest customer, Walmart/Sam’s Club, accounted for 21.6% of our sales during this period. These customers do not typically enter into long-term sales contracts, and instead make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand, and customer service performance. At any time, they may use more of their shelf space, including space currently used for our products, for store branded products or for products from other suppliers. If our sales to one or more of these customers are reduced, this reduction may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Consolidation in the retail and foodservice industries could affect our sales and profitability. If our retail and foodservice customers continue to grow larger due to consolidation in their respective industries, they may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Meeting these demands could adversely affect our margins, and therefore our sales and profitability. Our large customers may impose requirements on us that may adversely affect our results of operations. From time to time, our large customers may re-evaluate or refine their business practices and impose new or revised requirements on us and their other suppliers. These business changes may involve inventory practices, logistics, or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. Compliance with requirements imposed by major customers may be costly and may have an adverse effect on our margins and profitability. However, if we fail to meet a significant customer’s demands, we could lose that customer’s business, which also could adversely affect our results of operations. Our inability to execute our business strategy could adversely affect our business. We employ various operating strategies to maintain our position as one of the nation’s leading producers and marketers of bakery products available to customers through multiple channels of distribution. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or executing one or more of these strategies, our business could be adversely affected. We have risks related to our pension plans, which could impact the company’s liquidity. The company has trusteed, noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain employees maintained under the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, including the performance of our common stock, which comprises approximately 11.6% of all the pension plan assets as of December 31, 2011. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected, the likelihood of the company being required to make larger contributions will increase which could impact our liquidity. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can impact our contribution requirements. In a low interest rate environment, the likelihood of larger required contributions increases. Adverse developments in any of these areas could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. A disruption in the operation of our DSD distribution system could negatively affect our results of operations financial condition and cash flows. We believe that our DSD distribution system is a significant competitive advantage. A material negative change in our relationship with the independent distributors, an adverse ruling by regulatory or governmental bodies regarding our independent distributorship program or an adverse judgment against the company for actions taken by the independent distributors could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Disruption in our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics or labor strikes, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. The costs of maintaining and enhancing the value and awareness of our brands are increasing, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. We rely on the success of our well-recognized brand names and we intend to maintain our strong brand recognition by continuing to devote resources to advertising, marketing and other brand building efforts. Our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share. If we are not able to successfully maintain our brand recognition, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Inability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences may result in decreased demand for our products, which could have an adverse impact on our future growth and operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to respond to current market trends and to anticipate the tastes and dietary habits of consumers. If we fail to anticipate, identify, or react to changes in consumer preferences, we could experience reduced demand for our products, which could in turn cause our operating results to suffer. Future product recalls or safety concerns could adversely impact our results of operations. We may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated, spoiled, tampered with or damaged. We also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. A product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or without merit, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products could adversely affect our reputation and brand image. We also could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products. Government regulation could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. As a producer and marketer of food items, our production processes, product quality, packaging, labeling, storage, and distribution are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local government entities and agencies. Failure to comply with, or violations of, the regulatory requirements of one or more of these agencies can result in a variety of sanctions, including monetary fines or compulsory withdrawal of products from store shelves, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any business disruption due to political instability, armed hostilities, incidents of terrorism or natural disasters could adversely impact our financial performance. Terrorist activity, armed conflict, political instability or natural disasters that may occur within or outside the U.S. may disrupt manufacturing, labor, and other business operations. In the event of such incidents, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Changes in or new interpretations of applicable laws or regulations involving government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations that could affect our profitability or impede the production or distribution of our products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We use natural gas, diesel fuel, and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. Legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Legislation designed to control emissions affecting climate change could affect our ability to procure our commodity needs at costs we currently experience and may require additional unplanned capital expenditures. Increases in employee and employee-related costs could have adverse effects on our profitability. Pension, health care, and workers’ compensation costs are increasing and will likely continue to do so. Any substantial increase in pension, health care or workers’ compensation costs may have an adverse impact on our profitability. The company records pension costs and the liabilities related to its benefit plans based on actuarial valuations, which include key assumptions determined by management. Material changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. Future annual amounts could be impacted by various factors, such as changes in the number of plan participants, changes in the discount rate, changes in the expected long-term rate of return, changes in the level of contributions to the plan, and other factors. In addition, legislation or regulations involving labor and employment and employee benefit plans (including employee health care benefits and costs) may impact our operational results. We may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute acquisitions and divestitures and integrate acquired operations. From time to time, the company undertakes acquisitions or divestitures. The success of any acquisition or divestiture depends on the company’s ability to identify opportunities that help us meet our strategic objectives, consummate a transaction on favorable contractual terms, and achieve expected returns and other financial benefits. Acquisitions require us to efficiently integrate the acquired business to achieve the expected returns. Divestitures have operational risks that may include impairment charges. Acquisitions or divestitures present unique financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from the existing core business, integrating or separating personnel and financial data and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. In situations where acquisitions or divestitures are not successfully implemented or completed, the company’s business or financial results could be negatively impacted. Failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and Georgia law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and Georgia law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit any possible future acquisition of our company if not approved by our Board of Directors. This could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if a substantial number or even a majority of 13 Table of Contents our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions in our organizational documents that could delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: • A classified Board of Directors, • The requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause, • Specified requirements for calling special meetings of shareholders, and • The ability of the Board of Directors to consider the interests of various constituencies, including our employees, customers, creditors, and the local community. Our articles of incorporation also permit the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock with such designations, powers, preferences and rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. Executive Offices The address and telephone number of our principal executive offices are 1919 Flowers Circle, Thomasville, Georgia 31757, (229) 226-9110. Executive Officers of Flowers Foods The following table sets forth certain information regarding the persons who currently serve as the executive officers of Flowers Foods. Our Board of Directors elects our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer for a one-year term. The Board of Directors has granted the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer the authority to appoint the executive officers to hold office until they resign or are removed. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Name, age and Office Business Experience George E. Deese Age 66 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Deese has been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Flowers Foods since January 2010. Mr. Deese previously served as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Flowers Foods from January 2006 to January 2010. He previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Flowers Foods from January 2004 to January 2006. Prior to that he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Foods from May 2002 until January 2004. Mr. Deese also served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Bakeries from January 1997 until May 2002, President and Chief Operating Officer, Baked Products Group of Flowers Industries from 1983 to January 1997, Regional Vice President, Baked Products Group of Flowers Industries from 1981 to 1983 and President of Atlanta Baking Company from 1980 to 1981. Allen L. Shiver Age 56 President Mr. Shiver has been President of Flowers Foods since January 2010. Mr. Shiver previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Flowers Foods from May 2008 to January 2010. He previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the warehouse delivery segment from April 2003 until May 2008. Prior to that, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Snack from July 2002 until April 2003. Prior to that Mr. Shiver served as Executive Vice President of Flowers Bakeries from 1998 until 2002, as a Regional Vice President of Flowers Bakeries in 1998 and as President of Flowers Baking Company of Villa Rica from 1995 until 1998. Prior to that time, Mr. Shiver served in various sales and marketing positions at Flowers Bakeries. 14 Table of Contents Name, age and Office Business Experience R. Steve Kinsey Age 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Kinsey has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Kinsey previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Flowers Foods from September 2007 to May 2008. Prior to that he served as Vice President and Corporate Controller of Flowers Foods from 2002 to 2007. Prior to that he served as Director of Tax of Flowers Foods from 2001 to 2002 and at Flowers Industries from 1998 to 2001. Mr. Kinsey served as Tax Manager of Flowers Industries from 1994 to 1998. Mr. Kinsey joined the company in 1989 as a Tax Associate. Gene D. Lord Age 64 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Mr. Lord has been Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Lord previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the DSD segment from July 2002 to May 2008. Prior to that, he served as a Regional Vice President of Flowers Bakeries from January 1997 until July 2002. Prior to that, he served as Regional Vice President, Baked Products Group of Flowers Industries from May 1987 until January 1997 and as President of Atlanta Baking Company from February 1981 until May 1987. Prior to that time, Mr. Lord served in various sales positions at Flowers Bakeries. Stephen R. Avera Age 55 Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel Mr. Avera has been Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Avera previously served as Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of Flowers Foods from September 2004 to May 2008. Prior to that, he served as Secretary and General Counsel from February 2002 until September 2004. He also served as Vice President and General Counsel of Flowers Bakeries from July 1998 to February 2002. Mr. Avera also previously served as an Associate and Assistant General Counsel of Flowers Industries from February 1986 to July 1998. Michael A. Beaty Age 61 Executive Vice President of Supply Chain Mr. Beaty has been Executive Vice President of Supply Chain of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Beaty previously served as Senior Vice President-Supply Chain of Flowers Foods from September 2002 to May 2008. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President of Bakery Operations of Flowers Bakeries from September 1994 until September 2002. He also served as Vice President of Manufacturing of Flowers Bakeries from February 1987 until September 1994. Prior to that time, Mr. Beaty served in management positions at various Flowers Bakeries operations, including Vice President of Manufacturing, Executive Vice President and President of various Flowers operations from 1974 until 1987. Marta Jones Turner Age 58 Executive Vice President of Corporate Relations Ms. Turner has been Executive Vice President of Corporate Relations of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Ms. Turner previously served as Senior Vice President of Corporate Relations of Flowers Foods from July 2004 to May 2008. Prior to that, she served as Vice President of Communications and Investor Relations from November 2000 until July 2004. She also served as Vice President of Public Affairs of Flowers Industries from September 1997 until January 2000 and Director of Public Relations of Flowers Industries from 1985 until 1997. 15 Table of Contents Name, age and Office Business Experience Karyl H. Lauder Age 55 Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Ms. Lauder has been Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Ms. Lauder previously served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Flowers Foods from September 2007 to May 2008. Ms. Lauder previously served as Vice President and Operations Controller of Flowers Foods from 2003 to 2007. Prior to that she served as Division Controller for Flowers Bakeries Group from 1997 to 2003. Prior to that, Ms. Lauder served as a Regional Controller for Flowers Bakeries after serving as Controller and in other accounting supervisory positions at various plant locations since 1978. Bradley K. Alexander Age 53 President, Flowers Bakeries Mr. Alexander has been President of Flowers Bakeries since May 2008. Mr. Alexander previously served as a Regional Vice President of Flowers Bakeries from 2003 until May 2008. Prior to that, he served in various sales, marketing and operational positions since joining the company in 1981, including bakery president and Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Donald A. Thriffiley, Jr. Age 58 Senior Vice President of Human Resources Mr. Thriffiley has been Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Thriffiley previously served as Vice President of Human Resources from 2002 to 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Thriffiley served as Director of Human Resources for Flowers Bakeries and in other human resources positions since joining the company in 1977. H. Mark Courtney Age 51 Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing Mr. Courtney has been Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing of Flowers Bakeries since January of 2010. He previously served as Senior Vice President of Sales from April 2008 until January 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Courtney served in various sales, marketing, and operations positions, including Executive Vice President of Flowers Snack Group. Mr. Courtney joined the company in 1983. David A. Hubbard Age 42 Vice President and Chief Information Officer Mr. Hubbard has been Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Flowers Foods since October of 2011. He previously served as Vice President, IT Technology and Development in 2011. Prior to that Mr. Hubbard was the IT Director, SAP Technology and eBusiness from 2003 through early 2011. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 