Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem insignificant, may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Current economic conditions may negatively impact demand for our products, which could adversely impact our sales and operating profit. Economic conditions have deteriorated significantly throughout the United States and these difficult conditions may continue to exist for the foreseeable future. This deterioration could have a negative impact on our business. Economic uncertainty has created a small shift in consumer preference toward private label products and may result in increased pressure to reduce the prices for some of our products and/or limit our ability to increase or maintain prices. As such, we could experience reduced profitability, which potentially could require us to recognize impairment charges. If any of these events occur, or if the unfavorable economic conditions continue, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Increases in costs and/or shortages of raw materials, fuels and utilities could cause costs to increase. Commodities, such as flour, sweeteners, shortening and eggs, which are used in our bakery products, are subject to price fluctuations. Any substantial increase in the prices of raw materials may have an adverse impact on our profitability. Agricultural commodity prices reached all time high levels during 2007 and the first half of 2008. 9 Table of Contents The cost of these inputs may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, domestic and international demand or other unforeseen circumstances. In addition, we are dependent upon natural gas and propane for firing ovens. The independent distributors and third party shipping companies we use are dependent upon gasoline and diesel as fuel for distribution vehicles. Substantial future increases in prices for, or shortages of, these fuels could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. The company cannot guarantee that it can cover these cost increases through future pricing actions. Additionally, as a result of these pricing actions consumers could move from the purchase of high margin branded products to lower margin store brands. We rely on a few large customers for a significant portion of our sales and the loss of one of our large customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have several large customers that account for a significant portion of our sales. Our top ten customers accounted for 45.6% of our sales during fiscal 2008. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart/Sam’s Club, accounted for 20.5% of our sales during this period. The loss of one of our large customers could adversely affect our results of operations. These customers do not typically enter into long-term sales contracts, and make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand and customer service performance. They may in the future use more of their shelf space, including space currently used for our products, for private label products or products of other suppliers. If our sales to one or more of these customers are reduced, this reduction may adversely affect our business. Consolidation in the retail and foodservice industries could affect our sales and profitability. As our customers, including mass merchandisers grow larger they may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Meeting these demands could adversely affect our margins. Our large customers may impose requirements on us that may adversely affect our results of operations. From time to time, our large customers, including Wal-Mart/Sam’s Club, may re-evaluate or refine their business practices and impose new or revised requirements upon their suppliers, including us. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. Compliance with requirements imposed by significant customers may be costly and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. However, if we fail to meet a significant customer’s demands, we could lose that customer’s business, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Competition could adversely impact revenues and profitability. The United States bakery industry is highly competitive. Competition is based on product availability, product quality, price, effective promotions and the ability to target changing consumer preferences. We experience price pressure from time to time as a result of our competitors’ promotional efforts. Increased competition could result in reduced sales, margins, profits and market share. Our ability to execute our business strategy could affect our business. We employ various operating strategies to maintain our position as one of the nation’s leading producers and marketers of bakery products available to customers through multiple channels of distribution. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or executing one or more of these strategies, our business could be adversely affected. Increases in employee and employee-related costs could have adverse effects on our profitability. Pension, health care and workers’ compensation costs have been increasing and will likely continue to increase. Any substantial increase in pension, health care or workers’ compensation costs may have an adverse impact on our profitability. The company records pension costs and the liabilities related to its benefit plans based on actuarial valuations, which include key assumptions determined by management. Material changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. Future annual amounts could be impacted by various factors, such as changes in the number of plan participants, changes in the discount rate, changes in the 10 Table of Contents expected long-term rate of return, changes in the level of contributions to the plan and other factors. There have been no new participants in the company’s defined benefit plan since December 31, 1998. Effective December 31, 2005, the company froze benefits in its primary defined benefit pension plan. As a result of the downturn in equity markets during 2008, the assets of the company’s pension plans decreased significantly and, as a result of this decrease, pension costs will increase in 2009. We have risks related to our pension plans, which could impact the company’s liquidity. The company has trusteed, noncontributory defined pension plans covering certain employees maintained under the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, including the performance of our common stock, which comprises approximately 13.2% of all the pension plan assets as of January 3, 2009. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected, the likelihood of the company being required to make contributions will increase. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can impact our contribution requirements. In a low interest rate environment, the likelihood of required contributions in the future increases. A disruption in the operation of our DSD system could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We believe that our DSD distribution system is a significant competitive advantage. A material negative change in our relations with the independent distributors, an adverse ruling by regulatory or governmental bodies regarding our independent distributorship program or an adverse judgment against the company for actions taken by the independent distributors could materially affect our results of operation and financial condition. We rely on the value of our brands, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing the awareness of our brands are increasing, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. We rely on the success of our well-recognized brand names. We intend to maintain our strong brand recognition by continuing to devote resources to advertising, marketing and other brand building efforts. If we are not able to successfully maintain our brand recognition, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Inability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences may result in decreased demand for products, which could have an adverse impact on our future growth and operating results. Our success depends in part on our ability to respond to current market trends and to anticipate the tastes and dietary habits of consumers. Consumer preferences change, and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which could in turn cause our operating results to suffer. Future product recalls or safety concerns could adversely impact our results of operations. We may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged. We also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. A product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. We also could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products. Government regulation could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. As a producer and marketer of food items, we are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local government entities and agencies with respect to production processes, product quality, packaging, labeling, storage and distribution. Failure to comply with, or violations of, the regulatory requirements of one or more of these agencies can result in a variety of sanctions, including monetary fines or compulsory withdrawal of products from store shelves. In addition, future regulation by these agencies, the military action in Iraq and the continuing threat of 11 Table of Contents terrorist attacks, could increase our commodity and service costs and have material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Any business disruption due to political instability, armed hostilities, incidents of terrorism or natural disasters could adversely impact our financial performance. If terrorist activity, armed conflict, political instability or natural disasters occur in the U.S. or other locations, such events may disrupt manufacturing, labor and other aspects of our business. In the event of such incidents, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and Georgia law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, shareholder rights plan and Georgia law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us if not approved by our Board of Directors. This could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if a substantial number or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions in our organizational documents that could delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: • a classified Board of Directors; • the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; • specified requirements for calling special meetings of shareholders; and • the ability of the Board of Directors to consider the interests of various constituencies, including our employees, clients and creditors and the local community. Our articles of incorporation also permit the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock with such designations, powers, preferences and rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. In addition, we have in place a shareholders’ rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon substantial purchases of our common stock by a third party that are not approved by the Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None Executive Offices The address and telephone number of our principal executive offices are 1919 Flowers Circle, Thomasville, Georgia 31757, (229) 226-9110. Executive Officers of Flowers Foods The following table sets forth certain information regarding the persons who currently serve as the executive officers of Flowers Foods. Our Board of Directors elects our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President for a one-year term. The Board of Directors has granted the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President the authority to appoint officers to the positions of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel, Executive Vice President-Supply Chain, Executive Vice President of Corporate Relations, Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, 12 Table of Contents President of Flowers Bakeries, Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer to hold office until they resign or are removed. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Name, Age and Office Business Experience George E. Deese Age 63 Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President Mr. Deese has been Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Flowers Foods since January 2006. Mr. Deese previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Flowers Foods from January 2004 to January 2006. Prior to that he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Foods from May 2002 until January 2004. Mr. Deese also served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Bakeries from January 1997 until May 2002, President and Chief Operating Officer, Baked Products Group of Flowers Industries from 1983 to January 1997, Regional Vice President, Baked Products Group of Flowers Industries from 1981 to 1983 and President of Atlanta Baking Company from 1980 to 1981. R. Steve Kinsey Age 48 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Kinsey has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Kinsey previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Flowers Foods from September 2007 to May 2008. Prior to that he served as Vice President and Corporate Controller of Flowers Foods from 2002 to 2007. Prior to that he served as Director of Tax of Flowers Foods from 2001 to 2002 and Flowers Industries from 1998 to 2001. Mr. Kinsey served as Tax Manager of Flowers Industries from 1994 to 1998. Mr. Kinsey joined the company in 1989 as a Tax Associate. Gene D. Lord Age 61 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Mr. Lord has been Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Lord previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the DSD segment from July 2002 to May 2008. Prior to that, he served as a Regional Vice President of Flowers Bakeries from January 1997 until July 2002. Prior to that, he served as Regional Vice President, Baked Products Group of Flowers Industries from May 1987 until January 1997 and as President of Atlanta Baking Company from February 1981 until May 1987. Prior to that time, Mr. Lord served in various sales positions at Flowers Bakeries. Allen L. Shiver Age 53 Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Mr. Shiver has been Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Shiver previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the warehouse delivery segment from April 2003 until May 2008. Prior to that, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Snack from July 2002 until April 2003. Prior to that Mr. Shiver served as Executive Vice President of Flowers Bakeries from 1998 until 2002, as a Regional Vice President of Flowers Bakeries in 1998 and as President of Flowers Baking Company of Villa Rica from 1995 until 1998. Prior to that time, Mr. Shiver served in various sales and marketing positions at Flowers Bakeries. Stephen R. Avera Age 52 Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel Mr. Avera has been Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Avera previously served as Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of Flowers Foods from September 2004 to May 2008. Prior to that, he served as Secretary and General Counsel from February 2002 until September 2004. He also served as Vice President and General Counsel of Flowers Bakeries from July 1998 to February 2002. Mr. Avera also previously served as an associate and Assistant General Counsel of Flowers Industries from February 1986 to July 1998. 13 Table of Contents Michael A. Beaty Age 58 Executive Vice President of Supply Chain Mr. Beaty has been Executive Vice President of Supply Chain of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Beaty previously served as Senior Vice President-Supply Chain of Flowers Foods from September 2002 to May 2008. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President of Bakery Operations of Flowers Bakeries from September 1994 until September 2002. He also served as Vice President of Manufacturing of Flowers Bakeries from February 1987 until September 1994. Prior to that time, Mr. Beaty served in management positions at various Flowers Bakeries operations, including Vice President of Manufacturing, Executive Vice President and President of various Flowers operations from 1974 until 1987. Marta Jones Turner Age 55 Executive Vice President of Corporate Relations Ms. Turner has been Executive Vice President of Corporate Relations of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Ms. Turner previously served as Senior Vice President of Corporate Relations of Flowers Foods from July 2004 to May 2008. Prior to that, she served as Vice President of Communications and Investor Relations from November 2000 until July 2004. She also served as Vice President of Public Affairs of Flowers Industries from September 1997 until January 2000 and Director of Public Relations of Flowers Industries from 1985 until 1997. Karyl H. Lauder Age 52 Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Ms. Lauder has been Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Ms. Lauder previously served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Flowers Foods from September 2007 to May 2008. Ms. Lauder previously served as Vice President and Operations Controller of Flowers Foods from 2003 to 2007. Prior to that she served as Division Controller for Flowers Bakeries Group from 1997 to 2003. Prior to that, Ms. Lauder served as a Regional Controller for Flowers Bakeries after serving as Controller and in other accounting supervisory positions at various plant locations since 1978. Bradley K. Alexander Age 50 President, Flowers Bakeries Mr. Alexander has been President of Flowers Bakeries since May 2008. Mr. Alexander previously served as a Regional Vice President of Flowers Bakeries from 2003 until May 2008. Prior to that, he served in various sales, marketing and operational positions since joining the company in 1981, including bakery president and Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Donald A. Thriffiley, Jr. Age 55 Senior Vice President of Human Resources Mr. Thriffiley has been Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Thriffiley, previously served as Vice President of Human Resources from 2002 to 2008. Prior to that Mr. Thriffiley served as Director of Human Resources for Flowers Bakeries and in other human resources positions since joining the company in 1977. Vyto F. Razminas Age 51 Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer Mr. Razminas has been Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer for Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Razminas, previously served as Vice President of Business and Information Systems from 2002 to 2008. Prior to that Mr. Razminas served as Chief Information Officer from 1998 to 2002. 14 Table of Contents 