ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K before you decide to buy our common stock. It is possible that risks and uncertainties not listed below may arise or become material in the future and affect our business. The United States Economy Is In Recession. The Economic Recession Has Already Affected Our Business and Results of Operations. A Prolonged Economic Downturn, Especially One Affecting Our Geographic Market Area, Could Continue to Materially Affect our Business and Financial Results. The United States economy entered a recession in the fourth quarter of 2007. The economy in our principal market area, Northern Michigan, is similarly in a recession. Throughout the course of 2008 and 2009, economic conditions continued to worsen, due in large part to the fallout from the collapse of the sub-prime mortgage market. While we did not originate or invest in sub-prime mortgages, our lending business is tied, in large part, to the housing market. Declines in home prices, increases in foreclosures and higher unemployment have adversely affected the credit performance of real estate-related loans, resulting in the write-down of asset values. The continuing housing slump also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing, further declines in home prices, and increased delinquencies on our construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. Further, the ongoing concern about the stability of the financial markets in general has caused many lenders to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. These conditions may also cause a further reduction in loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. The Company's success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of Michigan and the specific local markets in which the Company operates. The local economic conditions in these local markets have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services as well as the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company's deposit funding sources. Economic conditions experienced in the State of Michigan have been more adverse than in the United States generally, and these conditions are not expected to significantly improve in the near future. Unemployment has increased significantly. A further economic downturn or continued weak business environment within Michigan could further negatively impact household and corporate incomes. A majority of the Company's loans are to individuals and businesses in Michigan. Consequently, any further or prolonged decline in Michigan’s economy could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. A significant further decline or a prolonged period of the lack of improvement in general economic conditions, whether caused by recession, inflation, unemployment, changes in securities markets, acts of terrorism, other international or domestic occurrences or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: · the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and · the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Like many savings institutions, our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid thereby requiring us to reinvest those cash flows at lower interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Management of Interest Rate Risk.” 33 In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, consisting of agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt obligations and municipal obligations, totaled $37.8 million. Unrealized net gains on these available-for-sale securities totaled $641,000 at December 31, 2009 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity using income simulation models that estimate the change in our net interest income over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net income at risk measures the risk of a decline in earnings due to potential short-term and long term changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2009, the latest date for which such information is available, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the model projects that we would experience an 8.0% decrease in net interest income over the following 12 months. As a Result of Our Previous Emphasis on Originating Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Business Loans, Our Credit Risk Has and Will Continue to Increase. Continued Weakness or a Deeper Downturn in the Real Estate Market and Local Economy Could Adversely Affect Our Earnings. At December 31, 2009, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $55.8 million, or 31.9% of our total loans, our portfolio of commercial business loans totaled $9.9 million, or 5.6% of our total loans, and our portfolio of commercial construction loans totaled $6.6 million or 3.8% of our total loans. These loans have increased as a percentage of our total loan portfolio in recent years and generally have more risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial business loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate or commercial business loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate or commercial business loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Because we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses because of the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any such increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. We Have Participated in Commercial Real Estate, Residential Real Estate and Construction Loans Secured by Real Estate Located Outside of Michigan, Which Expose Us to Increased Lending Risks Beginning in 2007, because of weak market conditions and weak demand for loans in our primary market area, and in an effort to diversify our loan portfolio, we began participating in commercial real estate, residential real estate and construction loans originated by other financial institutions and secured by real estate located outside of Michigan. As of December 31, 2009, $12.2 million of our loans were participations in commercial real estate and construction loans secured by real estate located outside of Michigan. As of December 31, 2009, $2.1 million of these loans were considered non-performing. Of our $8.2 million in loan charge-offs in 2009, $2.5 million were loans secured by real estate located outside of Michigan. Such loans expose us to increased lending risks because, unlike loans that we originate in our market area, we may be unfamiliar with the collateral securing such loans and the market conditions affecting the borrower, and we generally do not have face-to-face contact with the borrowers on such loans. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our allowance for loan losses was 2.09% of total loans and 31.05% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2009, compared to 2.85% of total loans and 46.41% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2008. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 34 Future Legislative or Regulatory Actions Responding to Financial and Market Weakness Could Affect Us Adversely. There Can Be No Assurance that Actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and Other Governmental and Regulatory Bodies For the Purpose of Stabilizing the Financial Markets Will Achieve the Intended Effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, the U.S. Congress has passed legislation and the U.S. Treasury has promulgated programs designed to purchase assets from, provide equity capital to, and guarantee the liquidity of the financial services industry. Specifically, Congress adopted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, under which the U.S. Treasury has the authority to expend up to $700 billion to assist in stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial system. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program, under which it will purchase up to $250 billion of non-voting senior preferred shares of certain qualified financial institutions in an attempt to encourage financial institutions to build capital to increase the flow of financing to businesses and consumers and to support the economy. In addition, Congress temporarily increased FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2013. The FDIC has also announced the creation of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions by temporarily guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of participating organizations and providing full insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts (such as business checking accounts, interest-bearing transaction accounts paying 50 basis points or less and lawyers’ trust accounts), regardless of dollar amount until December 31, 2009. Finally, in February 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was enacted, which is intended to expand and establish government spending programs and provide certain tax cuts to stimulate the economy. The U.S. government continues to evaluate and develop various programs and initiatives designed to stabilize the financial and housing markets and stimulate the economy, including the U.S. Treasury’s recently announced Financial Stability Plan and the recently announced foreclosure prevention program. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and the issuance of many formal enforcement orders is expected. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended, particularly with respect to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes will increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. Our FDIC insurance premiums have increased, and are expected to continue to increase, because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Lack of Consumer Confidence in Financial Institutions May Decrease Our Level of Deposits. Our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which has resulted in large numbers of depositors unwilling to maintain deposits that are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In some cases, depositors have withdrawn deposits and invested uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the U.S. Treasury. These consumer preferences may force us to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous Michigan-based banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities which provide financial services. Some of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions, have advantages of scale due to their size, or have cost advantages due to their tax status. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. 35 Recent Negative Developments in the Financial Services Industry And the Credit Markets May Subject Us to Additional Regulation. As a result of the recent financial crisis, the potential exists for the promulgation of new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, which are expected to result in the issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to these developments, may negatively affect our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans and pursue business opportunities. Compliance with such regulation also will likely increase our costs. Our Future Growth May Require Us to Raise Additional Capital in the Future, But That Capital May Not Be Available When It Is Needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We believe that our current capital levels will satisfy our regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest in our common stock could be diluted. Our Expenses Will Increase as a Result of Increases in FDIC Insurance Premiums. The FDIC imposes an assessment against institutions for deposit insurance. Federal law requires that the designated reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund be established by the FDIC at 1.15% to 1.50% of estimated insured deposits. If this reserve ratio drops below 1.15% or the FDIC expects it to do so within six months, the FDIC must, within 90 days, establish and implement a plan to restore the designated reserve ratio to 1.15% of estimated insured deposits within five years (absent extraordinary circumstances). Recent bank failures coupled with deteriorating economic conditions have significantly reduced the deposit insurance fund’s reserve ratio. As of June 30, 2009, the designated reserve ratio was 0.40% of estimated insured deposits at March 31, 2009. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule that alters the way the FDIC calculates federal deposit insurance assessment rates. Under the rule, the FDIC first establishes an institution’s initial base assessment rate. This initial base assessment rate ranges from 12 to 45 basis points, depending on the risk category of the institution. The FDIC then adjusts the initial base assessment (higher or lower) to obtain the total base assessment rate. The adjustments to the initial base assessment rate are based upon on institution’s levels of unsecured debt, secured liabilities, and brokered deposits. The total base assessment rate ranges from 7 to 77.5 basis points of the institution’s deposits. Additionally, on May 22, 2009 the FDIC issued a final rule that imposed a special 5 basis point assessment on each FDIC-insured depository institution’s assets, minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was paid on September 30, 2009. The special assessment was capped at 10 basis points of an institution’s domestic deposits. This special assessment resulted in additional non-interest expense of $108,000 during 2009. The FDIC has adopted a final rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions prepaid their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Under the rule, this prepayment was due on December 30, 2009. The assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 was based on the institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 will be equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional 3 basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period was calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Our initial prepayment amount was approximately $1.4 million, of which $1.3 million existed at December 31, 2009. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 temporarily increased the limit on FDIC insurance coverage for deposits to $250,000, which was further extended through December 31, 2013. The FDIC also took action to provide federal insurance coverage for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and non interest-bearing transaction and certain NOW accounts in excess of the $250,000 limit, for which institutions will be assessed additional premiums. 36 These actions will significantly increase our non-interest expense in 2010 and in future years as long as the premiums are in place. We Have Suspended our Common Stock Cash Dividend. We suspended our quarterly dividend effective for the quarter ended December 31, 2008. We are dependent primarily upon the Bank for our earnings and funds to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends also is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any reinstatement of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank's earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 