D. Risk Factors You should consider the following risks associated with our business, taking into account the instability of the country in which we operate. We may also face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently affecting us, or that we currently deem immaterial, which may materially impair our business. In general, investing in companies which operate in emerging markets such as Argentina is more risky than investing in companies which operate in more stable markets such as the United States. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Argentina Argentina’s current growth and stability may not be sustainable During 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. Although the economy has recovered significantly over the past three years, uncertainty remains as to whether the current growth and relative stability are sustainable. The Argentine economy remains fragile for reasons as reflected by the following: • unemployment remains high; • the availability of long-term fixed rate credit remains low; • investment as a percentage of GDP remains low; • the current fiscal surplus could become a fiscal deficit; • the current trade surplus could reverse into a trade deficit; • inflation has risen recently and threatens to accelerate; • volatility of discretionary spending; • the regulatory framework continues to be uncertain; • the country’s public debt remains high and international financing is limited; and • the recovery has been dependent to some extent on high commodity prices which are volatile and outside the control of the country, and excess capacity which has reduced considerably. Substantially all of our operations, properties and customers are located in Argentina. As a result, our business is to a very large extent dependent upon the economic conditions prevailing in Argentina. Although the economic situation in Argentina has improved, instability is still prevalent and no assurance can be given that macroeconomic conditions in Argentina will not deteriorate again. Inflation may rise again, causing adverse effects on the Argentine real estate markets as well as the Argentine economy generally After several years of price stability, the devaluation of the Peso in January 2002 imposed pressures on the domestic price system that generated high inflation throughout 2002, before substantially stabilizing in 2003. However, inflationary pressures have since reemerged with consumer prices increasing by 6.1% per annum during 2004 and increasing by 12.3% in 2005. During the eleven-month period ended November 30, 2006, the non-annualized inflation rate was 8.8%. In the past, inflation has materially undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to create conditions conducive to growth. A return to a high inflation environment could slow the rebound in the real estate market and may also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the Peso devaluation and negatively impacting the level of economic activity and employment. 16 Table of Contents Argentina’s sovereign debt restructuring and the early prepayment to the International Monetary Fund may create certain additional uncertainties, and the Argentine government may face future litigation that could have an impact on Argentina´s ability to obtain financing from international markets and economic growth After defaulting on over US$ 144.5 billion in external debt and as part of the debt restructuring process, the Argentine government consummated a debt exchange offer in the first quarter of 2005 with a rate of participation by bondholders of approximately 76% and an aggregate tendered amount of US$ 62.3 billion. The settlement of the debt exchange was completed on June 2, 2005 due to a delay resulting from legal action by certain bondholders who did not participate in the exchange offer that attempted to attach the tendered bonds. Despite the high levels of acceptance of the exchange offer, the amounts not tendered for exchange totaled approximately US$ 20 billion. Some bondholders in the United States, Italy and Germany filed legal actions against Argentina that are still pending resolution, and holdout creditors may initiate new suits in the future. Argentina’s past default and its failure to restructure completely its remaining sovereign debt and fully negotiate with holdout creditors may prevent the Argentine government from accessing the international capital markets for the foreseeable future. Moreover, after consummation of the exchange offer, Argentina’s sovereign debt is still significant and may inhibit economic growth and result in lower fiscal surpluses that could further restrict the ability to repay outstanding debt. Under these circumstances, we cannot assure you that the economy will not suffer additional shocks. Following settlement of Argentina’s sovereign debt restructuring, the International Monetary Fund (the “IMF”) agreed to a one-year extension of Argentina’s scheduled repayment of debt due to the IMF and on December 15, 2005, the Argentine government announced its intention to prepay all of its outstanding debt with the IMF, totaling US$ 9.53 billion, using reserves available at the Central Bank. On January 3, 2006, the Argentine government made the prepayment of its outstanding debt with the IMF using foreign reserves of the Central Bank that were in excess of the amounts necessary to support 100% of Argentina’s monetary base. The reduction of the Central Bank’s foreign-currency reserves may weaken Argentina’s ability to overcome economic deterioration. However, in October 2006 the Central Bank recovered the reserves level previous to the prepayment of its outstanding debt with the IMF. Without international private financing Argentina may not be able to finance its obligations, and financing from multilateral financial institutions may be limited or not available. This could also inhibit the ability of the Central Bank to adopt measures to combat inflation and could adversely affect Argentina’s economic growth and public finances, which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions or results of operations. In addition, without the restrictions on spending imposed by the IMF arrangement, Argentina may again experience significant government spending which could result in renewed inflation and other adverse economic consequences. The Peso has been subject to major devaluations in the past and may suffer significant fluctuations in the future creating uncertainty as to Argentina’s economic future what may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and financial condition The economic policies of the Argentine government as well as any future depreciation of the Peso against the US$ might have an adverse impact on our financial condition and the results of our operations. The Peso has been subject to major devaluations in the past and may suffer significant fluctuations in the future. Law No. 25,561, promulgated on January 6, 2002, called Public Emergency and Foreign Exchange Regime Reform Law (“Public Emergency Law”), put an end to over a decade of one-to-one parity between the US$ and the Peso and authorized the Argentine government to set the exchange rate. Subsequent to the devaluation of the Peso in early 2002 and since the beginning of the economic crisis, there have been significant fluctuations in the value of the Peso causing repeated Argentine Central Bank interventions to stabilize the Peso through purchases and sales of U.S. Dollars. The exchange rate between Peso and U.S. Dollar prevailing on November 30, 2006 was Ps.3.048 = US$1.00, after a peak of Ps.3.90 per US$ on June 25, 2002. Substantially all of our revenues and assets as of June 30, 2006 in Argentina, and as a result of the enactment of the Public Emergency Law, they are calculated and collected in Pesos. We cannot assure you that the policies to be implemented by the Argentine government in the future will stabilize the value of the Peso against foreign currencies. 17 Table of Contents Therefore, the Peso may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations and further devaluations which might significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations. Any further depreciation of the Peso against the US$ will correspondingly increase the amount of our debt in Pesos, with further adverse effects on our results of operation and financial condition, and may increase the collection risk of our leases and other receivables from our tenants and mortgage debtors, most of whom have Peso-denominated revenues. Moreover, our Peso-denominated monetary assets and liabilities could be affected by the introduction of different inflation adjustment indexes. We cannot assure you that the policies to be implemented by the Argentine government in the future will stabilize the value of the Peso against foreign currencies. Therefore, the Peso may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations and further depreciations that might significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations. Government measures to preempt or respond to social unrest may adversely affect the Argentine economy During its crisis in 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced social and political turmoil, including civil unrest, riots, looting, nationwide protests, strikes and street demonstrations. Despite Argentina’s ongoing economic recovery and relative stabilization, social and political tension and high levels of poverty and unemployment continue. Future government policies to avoid or address social unrest may include expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, suspension of the enforcement of creditors’ rights, new taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and changes in laws and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. Such policies could destabilize the country and adversely and materially affect the economy, and thereby our business. Exchange controls and restrictions on transfers abroad and capital inflow restrictions have limited, and can be expected to continue to limit, the availability of international credit and may prevent us from servicing our foreign currency denominated debt obligations In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. These restrictions have been substantially eased, including those requiring the Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad in order to pay principal and interest on debt obligations. However, Argentina may re-impose exchange control or transfer restrictions in the future, among other things, in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the Peso. In addition, the government issued Decree No. 616/05 that established new controls on capital inflows that could result in less availability of international credit. Additional controls could have a negative effect on the economy and our business if imposed in an economic environment where access to local capital is substantially constrained. Moreover, in such event, restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad may impede our ability to make payments abroad and your ability to receive payments of principal and interest as a holder of notes. By contrast, according to Communication “C” 43075 dated September 26, 2005, inflows of foreign currency caused by a non-resident and to be applied to payment obligations under a purchase agreement (including installment payments) concerning real estate under construction may be registered as foreign direct investments, provided that certain conditions are met. Although most capital outflow restrictions with regards to imports of goods, payment of interest, utilities, dividends and financial debts have been eliminated, there can be no assurance that the Argentine Central Bank will not reverse its position and once again restrict payments of principal and interest outside of Argentina. If more stringent restrictions are imposed by the Argentine Central Bank, we may be unable to make payments of principal and/or interest on our foreign currency-denominated debt obligations. If that were to occur, we would likely suffer payment defaults on our existing debt obligations, and such defaults would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects and our ability to service our external debt obligations. 18 Table of Contents The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other global markets Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other global markets. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into and securities from issuers in other countries, including Argentina. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including Mexico in 1994, the collapse of several Asian economies between 1997 and 1998, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation in January 1999. In addition, Argentina continues to be affected by events in the economies of its major regional partners. Furthermore, the Argentine economy may be affected by events in developed economies which are trading partners or that impact the global economy. Shocks of a similar magnitude to the international markets in the future can be expected to affect adversely the Argentine economy and therefore our business. You may not be able to enforce your claims in Argentina We are a corporation (sociedad anónima) organized under the laws of Argentina. Most of our shareholders, directors, members of our supervisory committee, members of our executive committee and officers and certain experts named herein reside principally in Argentina and substantially all of our assets are located in Argentina. Under Argentine law, enforcement of foreign judgments would be recognized provided that the requirements of Articles 517 through 519 of the National Code of Civil and Commercial Procedure are complied with, including, that the judgment does not violate principles of public policy of Argentine law, as determined by the Argentine court. We cannot assure you that an Argentine court would not deem the enforcement of foreign judgments requiring us to make a payment under the notes in foreign currency outside of Argentina to be contrary to argentine public policy, if at that time there are legal restrictions prohibiting Argentine debtors from transferring foreign currency outside of Argentina to cancel indebtedness. Risks Related to Our Business The devaluation of the Argentine Peso and the deterioration of the Argentine economy may cause a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and financial condition As of June 30, 2006, our outstanding financial debt denominated in US$ amounted to Ps. 167.5 million (including accrued and unpaid interest and deferred financing costs), which represented a 70.8% of our consolidated financial debt. Any further depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar will correspondingly increase the amount of our debt in Pesos, with further adverse effects on our results of operation and financial condition. Our level of debt may adversely affect our operations and our ability to pay our debt as it becomes due We had, and expect to have, substantial liquidity and capital resource requirements to finance our business. As of June 30, 2006, our consolidated financial debt amounted to Ps. 236.7 million (including accrued and unpaid interests and deferred financing costs). Although we are generating sufficient funds from operating cash flows to satisfy our debt service requirements and our capacity to obtain new financing is adequate, we cannot assure you that we will maintain such cash flow and adequate financial structure in the future. The fact that we are leveraged may affect our ability to refinance existing debt or borrow additional funds to finance working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditures. This would require us to allocate a substantial portion of cash flow to repay principal and interest, thereby reducing the amount of money available to invest in operations, including acquisitions and capital expenditures. 19 Table of Contents Our leverage could also affect our competitiveness and limit our ability to react to market conditions, the real estate industry and economic downturns. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to satisfy our debt service requirements or to obtain future financing. If we cannot satisfy our debt service requirements or if we default on any financial or other covenants in our debt arrangements, the holders of our debt will be able to accelerate the maturity of such debt or cause defaults under the other debt arrangements. Our ability to service debt obligations or to refinance them will depend upon our future financial and operating performance, which will, in part, be subject to factors beyond our control such as macroeconomic conditions and regulatory changes in Argentina. If we cannot obtain future financing, we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our planned capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our ability to generate cash flows and repay our obligations. Risks associated with real estate investments Our real estate investments are subject to risks common to commercial and residential properties in general, many of which are not within our control. Any of these risks may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The yields available from equity investments in real estate depend on the level of sales or rental income generated and expenses incurred. Our ability to generate sufficient income from our properties to service our debt and cover other expenses may be adversely affected by the following factors, among others, some of which we cannot control: • oversupply of retail space or a reduction in demand for retail space, which could result in lower rent prices and lower revenues for us; • increased competition from other real estate operators which might drive down our prices and profits; • changes in our ability or our tenants’ ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance, which in turn may decrease the revenues collected from leased property; • increases in operating expenses which could lower our profitability; • the inability to collect rents due to bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants or otherwise; • the need to periodically renovate, repair and release space, the higher costs thereof; and • exercise by our tenants of their legal right to terminate their leases early. An economic downturn in the areas in which the shopping centers are located, bankruptcy of tenants and reduction in the shopping center sales due to lower disposable income might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors may result in the inability or unwillingness of some tenants to pay rent or increase expense. In addition, we have a number of important tenants occupying space in more than one shopping center; if any one or more of such tenants were to experience financial difficulties and default in lease payments, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, our biggest tenant contributed approximately 3.9% of our income from leases and services. Furthermore, as leases on properties expire or terminate early, we may be unable to find new tenants or existing tenants may enter into new leases on terms that are less favorable to us. The failure to lease such properties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Failure to sell planned properties will adversely affect our financial condition We might have difficulty or fail to sell our futures developments. A failure or a delay in selling these properties would result in lower results of operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to shopping center operating risks that may affect our profitability Shopping centers are subject to several factors that could affect their administration and profitability. These factors include: • the accessibility and the attractiveness of the area where the shopping center is located; • the intrinsic attractiveness of the shopping center; • the flow of people and the level of sales of each shopping center rental unit; • the amount of rent collected from each shopping center rental unit; and • the fluctuations in occupancy levels in the shopping centers. In the event of an increase in operational costs, caused by inflation or other factors, we could suffer a material adverse effect, if our tenants are unable to pay their higher rent obligations. Moreover, the profitability of our shopping center is closely related to consumer spending, and, therefore, to the economy in which our shopping centers operate. All of our shopping centers are located in Argentina, and, as a consequence, their business has been seriously affected by the Argentine recession. We are subject to great competitive pressure All of our properties are located in Argentina. There are other shopping centers and numerous smaller retail stores and residential properties within the market area of each of our properties. The number of competing properties in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease retail space in our shopping centers or sell units in our residential complexes and on the amount of rent or the sale price that we are able to charge. To date, there have been relatively few companies competing with us for shopping center properties. However, if additional companies become active in the Argentine shopping center market in the future, such competition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our assets are highly concentrated in certain geographic areas and an economic downturn in such areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, approximately 85.3% of our sales from leases and services were derived from properties in the City of Buenos Aires and the Greater Buenos Aires area. Although we own properties and may acquire or develop additional properties outside of the City of Buenos Aires and the Greater Buenos Aires area, we expect to continue to depend to a very large extent on economic conditions affecting those areas and therefore, an economic downturn in those areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our acquisition of a significant interest in the Neuquén Project may be voided, and we may lose our original investment. On July 6, 1999, we acquired 94.6% ownership of Shopping Neuquén S.A. (“Shopping Neuquén”) for Ps.4.2 million. Shopping Neuquén’s sole asset is a plot of land of approximately 50,000 square meters in which we seek to develop a shopping center. The proposed project also contemplates the building of a shopping center, a hypermarket, a hotel and a housing complex, none of which have begun. We paid Ps.0.9 million on September 1, 1999, and the remaining Ps.3.3 million were originally scheduled to be paid on the earlier to occur of July 5, 2001, and the completion of the construction of the shopping center. The balance of the purchase price has not been paid. On August 15, 2003, the former holders of 85.8% of Shopping Neuquén filed a complaint against us seeking recovery of the unpaid balance of the purchase price, plus interest and legal costs. 21 Table of Contents In September 2003, we answered the complaint and raised several defenses including, plaintiffs’ non-compliance with her duties under the contract and the pesification of the purchase price balance pursuant to emergency legislation adopted in 2002. We also filed a counterclaim alleging there should be a readjustment of the terms of the contract which became excessively burdensome given the 2001 economic, social and political crisis. In November 2003, the plaintiffs replied to our counterclaim alleging that the payment under the purchase agreement was overdue before the economic and social crisis emerged and thus our contract readjustment claim was inadmissible. The matter is currently subject to appeal, as the ruling of the trial court was appealed by both former shareholders of Shopping Neuquén and us. If we cannot reach agreement with the former owners of Shopping Neuquén, we would be compelled to pay the sum that the court determines. As of September 30, 2006, the Ps.3.3 million deferred balance of the purchase price remains unpaid. The Company maintains a provision of Ps. 2.5 million which represents the Company’s best estimate of the probable loss to be incurred in connection with these claims. We are engaged in litigation with the Municipality of Neuquén In June 2001, Shopping Neuquén filed a request with the Municipality of Neuquén to extend the construction deadlines that had been originally scheduled. In addition, it requested authorization to convey certain plots of land to third parties so that each participant to the Neuquén project would be able to build on his own land. On December 20, 2002, the Municipality of Neuquén issued Decree 1437/02 denying both requests. In addition, it declared that the rights under Ordinance 5178 had lapsed and that the land purchase agreements would be terminated. As a result, the improvements already made by Shopping Neuquén would be lost and passed on to the Municipality of Neuquén, leaving Shopping Neuquén with no right to compensation. On January 21, 2003, Shopping Neuquén submitted its response to the Decree 1437/02 requesting its revocation and requesting permission to submit a new construction timetable. The Municipal Executive issued Decree 585/2003 rejecting these requests. On May, 2003, Shopping Neuquén filed an administrative action with the Supreme Court of Neuquén requesting the annulment of Decrees 1437/2002 and 585/2003. On December 21, 2004, the Supreme Court of Neuquén ruled in favor of the Municipality of Neuquén, declaring that the administrative action filed by Shopping Neuquén had expired. The decision, however, is not final. We filed an appeal, but the Supreme Court of Neuquén has not yet issued a decision with regards to its admissibility. If the Supreme Court of Neuquén declares the appeal admissible, the final decision will then be made by the Federal Supreme Court, but if it is declared inadmissible we will then file an appeal directly with the Federal Supreme Court. On December 13, 2006, Shopping Neuquén subscribed an agreement with the Municipality of Neuquén and the Province of Neuquén in which Shopping Neuquén was given a new time table to implement the commercial and housing project. In addition, Shopping Neuquén will be allowed to transfer further subdivisions of the plot of land owned by Shopping Neuquén to third parties, provided that the plot to be transferred is not the one on which the shopping center is going to be built. The agreement is subject to the City of Neuquén Council’s approval and the promulgation of the new Ordinance by the Mayor of the City of Neuquén. Should the agreement be disapproved by the City Council, such agreement will be void. The shift of consumers to purchasing goods over the Internet may negatively affect sales in our shopping centers During the last years, retail sales by means of the Internet have grown significantly in Argentina, even though the market share of Internet sales related to retail sales is still not significant. The Internet enables manufacturers and retailers to sell directly to consumers, diminishing the importance of traditional distribution channels such as retail stores and shopping centers. We believe that our target consumers are increasingly using the Internet, from home, work or elsewhere, to shop electronically for retail goods, and this trend is likely to continue. If e-commerce and retail sales through the Internet continue to grow, consumers’ reliance on traditional distribution channels such as our shopping centers could be materially diminished, having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. 22 Table of Contents Our investments in Internet companies are subject to high risk Our Internet investments involve a high risk. Internet companies are relatively new and there is little or no historical operating and financial information available to analyze. Additionally, in the first years of operation, Internet companies generally do not generate earnings or positive cash flows, and their losses must be covered with capital contributions from investors. We cannot assure you that Internet companies will generate earnings or will be able to obtain financing once the initial capital contributions are already used. Therefore, our risks associated with Internet companies includes the possibility that: • we will not recover the investments already made; and • we will have to increase our capital contributions to finance the Internet companies. We may also experience the following additional risks with respect to our investment in Internet companies: • the possibility that the Internet company might not maintain and/or increase the level of traffic of the sites; • the Internet company might not adapt itself or anticipate the changes in the market; • the Internet company may be inefficient in updating and developing the necessary systems and organization and in hiring new or specialized personnel; • the chance that the world wide web will not be able to handle the site traffic; • the difficulty in generating expected income; • the failure in the administration of expansion of operations; and • the lack of efficiency to merge new lines of business to the existing operations. Moreover, it should be taken into account that the expected level of use and acceptance of the Internet and online services might never be reached. Our future acquisitions may be unprofitable We intend to acquire additional shopping center properties to the extent that they will be acquired on advantageous terms and meet our investment criteria. Acquisitions of commercial properties entail general investment risks associated with any real estate investment, including: • the risk that investments will fail to perform as expected, or • the risk that estimates of the cost of improvements needed to bring the property up to established standards for the market may prove to be inaccurate. Development and construction activities may render projects unprofitable for us In the development, renovation and construction of shopping centers and residential apartment complexes, we generally hire third-party contractors. Risks associated with our development, renovation and construction activities include: • abandonment of development opportunities and renovation proposals; 23 Table of Contents • construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates, making a project unprofitable; • occupancy rates and rents of a newly completed project may not be sufficient to make the project profitable; • sale prices for residential units may be insufficient to cover development costs; • we may be unable to obtain financing on favorable terms for the development of a project; • pre-construction buyers may default on their purchase contracts, or units in new buildings may remain unsold upon completion of construction; • construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; • we may be unable to obtain or may face delays in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; and • contractors’ claims for the enforcement of labor laws in Argentina (art. 30, 31, 32 Law No. 20,744), which provide for joint and several liability. All kinds of companies in Argentine are used to hire personel from third companies. Due to such necessity they signed indemnity agreements. However, in the last years there have been several Courts which denied the existence of any kind of independence in those labors relationships and ruled for the plaintiff (employee) declaring the existence of joint and several liability. We are subject to the risk of payment defaults due to our investments in credit card businesses Investments in credit card businesses can be adversely affected by delinquency on credit card accounts, defaults in payments by credit card holders, extensive judicial process enforcing the collection of payments, doubtful accounts or losses on receivables. The actual rates of delinquency, collection proceedings and losses on receivables may vary and be affected by numerous factors, which among others include: • adverse changes in the Argentine economy; • adverse changes in the regional economies; • political instability; • increase of unemployment; and • loss of value of actual salaries. These and other factors may have an adverse effect on present rates of delinquency, executions and losses, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. In addition, if our credit card business is adversely affected by any one or more of the above factors, the asset quality of our securitized receivables are also likely to be adversely affected. Therefore, we could be adversely affected to the extent that at such time we hold a participating interest in any such securitized receivables. 24 Table of Contents We are controlled by two principal shareholders As of November 30, 2006, IRSA Inversiones y Representaciones Sociedad Anonima (“IRSA”) and Parque Arauco S.A. (“Parque Arauco”), our main shareholders, owned in the aggregate approximately 91.2% of our capital stock. These principal shareholders control us and have, and will continue to have, significant influence on the election of our directors and the outcome of any action requiring shareholder approval. The number of shares beneficially owned by IRSA and Parque Arauco in the aggregate will increase by 2,239,716,498 assuming full conversion of US$ 47.23 million Convertible Notes owned by IRSA and Parque Arauco. We provided mortgage loans to purchasers of our residential development properties and any default on such loans could adversely affect our cash flow Although mortgage financing for residential property is available in Argentina from banks and financial institutions, we have provided seller financing to purchasers of units in our residential development properties by extending mortgage loans to such purchasers. Our mortgage loans were pesified and currently bear interest at a fixed interest rate averaging 14% per year and for terms ranging generally from 1 to 15 years. As of June 30, 2006, we had approximately Ps. 1.0 million in outstanding mortgage loans. We are subject to risks normally associated with such financing, including the risk of default in the payment of principal and interest, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Argentine law imposes significant restrictions on our ability to foreclose and auction properties. Thus, if there is a default under a mortgage loan, we do not have the right to foreclose on the unit. Instead, in order to reacquire a property, we are required to purchase each unit at a public court ordered auction, or at an out-of-court auction, in accordance with Law No. 24,441. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recover any amount outstanding on any mortgage loan through the sale of any property at such an auction. Our business is subject to extensive regulation The Argentine real estate industry is subject to extensive building and zoning regulations by various federal, state and municipal authorities which affect land acquisition, development and construction activities, and certain dealings with customers, as well as consumer credit and consumer protection statutes and regulations. We are required to obtain approval from various governmental authorities for our development activities, and new laws or regulations could be adopted, enforced or interpreted in a manner that could adversely affect our results of operations and levels of cash flow necessary or available to meet our obligations. Development activities are also subject to risks relating to the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining all necessary zoning, environmental, land-use, development, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. We are also subject to federal, state and municipal environmental laws applicable in Argentina. We believe that such laws and regulations currently do not materially affect our business or results of operations. However, we are unable to assure that real estate industry regulations and related regulations such as environmental regulations, will not change in a way which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Argentine lease laws imposes restrictions that limit our flexibility Argentine laws governing leases impose certain restrictions, including the following: • lease agreements may not contain inflation adjustment clauses based on consumer price indexes or wholesale price indexes. Although many of our lease agreements contain readjustment clauses, these are not based on an official index nor do they reflect the inflation index. In the event of litigation, there can be no assurance that we may be able to enforce such clauses contained in our lease agreements; • lease agreements must be for a minimum term of two years for residential properties and three years for retail property, except in the case of stands and/or spaces for special exhibitions; • lease terms may not exceed ten years, except for the leases regulated by Law No. 25,248 (which provides that leases containing a purchase option are not subject to term limitations); and 25 Table of Contents • tenants may rescind commercial lease agreements after the initial six months. The exercise of such rescission rights by our tenants could materially and adversely affect our business and we cannot assure you that our tenants will not exercise such right, especially if rent values stabilize or decline in the future. The Argentine government may impose additional restrictions on the lease, operation and ownership of property In the past, in response to housing shortages, high rates of inflation and difficult access to credit, the Argentine government has imposed strict and burdensome regulations regarding leases. Such regulations limited or prohibited rental increases and prohibited eviction of tenants, even for failure to pay rent. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not impose similar or other regulations in the future. Changes in existing laws or the enactment of new laws governing the ownership or operation or leasing of properties in Argentina could materially and adversely affect our operations and profitability. There can be no assurance that additional regulations will not be imposed in the future. Such regulations could negatively affect the Argentine real estate market, and the rental market. Furthermore, most of our leases provide that the tenants pay all costs and taxes related to their respective leasable areas. In the event of a significant increase in the amount of such costs and taxes, the Argentine government may respond to political pressure to intervene by regulating this practice, thereby negatively affecting our rental income. Eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time consuming Although Argentine law permits a summary proceeding to collect unpaid rent and a special procedure to evict tenants, historically, the heavy workload of the courts that hear these matters and the existence of numerous procedural requirements have delayed landlords´ efforts to evict tenants. Eviction proceedings generally range from six months to two years from the date of filing of the lawsuit to the time of actual eviction. Such prolonged proceedings could have a negative impact on the enforcement of our lease agreements. Historically, we have generally attempted to negotiate the termination of lease agreements with defaulting tenants in order to avoid legal proceedings. We cannot assure you that such negotiations will be successful in any particular case. We are dependent on our chairman Eduardo S. Elsztain Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued employment of Eduardo S. Elsztain, Chairman of our Board of Directors. The loss of his services for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success also depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel, or that any of our personnel will remain employed by us. Risks Related to the American Shares and the Shares Shares eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of our shares and American Depositary Shares (“ADS) The market prices of our common shares and ADS could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of common shares or ADS in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The ADS are freely transferable under U.S. securities laws, including shares sold to our affiliates. IRSA and Parque Arauco, which as of November 30, 2006 own approximately 91.2% of our common shares (or approximately 713,061,316 common shares which may be exchanged for an aggregate of 17,826,533 ADS), are free to dispose of any or all of their common shares or ADS at any time in their discretion. 26 Table of Contents Sales of a large number of our common shares and/or ADS would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and the ADS. Different Corporate Disclosure and Accounting Standards. We are subject to certain different corporate disclosure requirements and accounting standards than domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States There may be less publicly available information about the issuers of securities listed on the Buenos Aires Stock Market (Bolsa de Comercio de Buenos Aires) than is regularly published by or about domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States and certain other countries. In addition, all listed Argentine companies must prepare their financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Argentina which differ in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. Consequently, the presentation of Argentine financial statements and reported earnings may differ from that of companies in other countries in this and other respects. We are exempt from the rules under the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Investors may not be able to effect service of process within the U.S., limiting their recovery of any foreign judgment We are a publicly held stock corporation (sociedad anónima) organized under the laws of Argentina. Most of our directors and senior managers, and most of our assets are located in Argentina. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such persons or to enforce against them in United States courts judgments obtained in such courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. We have been advised by our Argentine counsel, Zang, Bergel & Viñes, that there is doubt whether the Argentine courts will enforce in all respects, to the same extent and in as timely a manner as a U.S. or foreign court, an action predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or other foreign regulations brought against such persons or against us. If we are considered to be aPassive Foreign Investment Company for United States federal income tax purposes, United States holders of our securities would suffer negative consequences Based on the current and projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets we do not believe we were a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”), for United States federal income tax purposes for the tax year ending June 30, 2006, and we do not currently expect to become a PFIC, although there can be no assurance in this regard. The determination of whether we are a PFIC is made annually. Accordingly, it is possible that we may be a PFIC in the current or any future taxable year due to changes in our asset or income composition or if our projections are not accurate. The volatility and instability of Argentina’s economic and financial system may substantially affect the composition of our income and assets and the accuracy of our projections. If we become a PFIC, United States Holders of our shares or ADS will be subject to certain United States federal income tax rules that have negative consequences for United States Holders such as additional tax and an interest charge upon certain distributions by us or upon a sale or other disposition of our shares or ADS at a gain, as well as reporting requirements. Please see “Taxation-United States Taxation” for a more detailed discussion of the consequences if we are deemed a PFIC. You should consult your own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to your particular circumstances. 27 Table of Contents 