D. Risk Factors You should consider the following risks associated with our business, taking into account the instability of the country in which we operate. We may also face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently affecting us, or that we currently deem immaterial, which may materially impair our business. In general, investing in companies which operate in emerging markets such as Argentina is more risky than investing in companies which operate in more stable markets such as the United States. Risks Related to Argentina Argentina’s current growth and stabilization may not be sustainable. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. Although the economy has recovered significantly over the past three years, uncertainty remains as to whether the current growth and relative stability are sustainable. Sustainable economic growth is dependant on a variety of factors, including international demand for Argentine exports, the stability and competitiveness of the Peso against foreign currencies, confidence among consumers as well as foreign and domestic investors and stable and relatively low inflation. The Argentine economy remains fragile for the following reasons: • unemployment remains high; • the availability of long-term fixed rate credit is limited; • investment as a percentage of GDP remains low; • the current fiscal surplus could become a fiscal deficit; • inflation has risen recently and threatens to accelerate; • the country’s public debt remains high and international financing is limited; and • the recovery has depended to some extent on high commodity prices, which are volatile and outside the control of the country, and excess capacity, which has reduced considerably. A substantial part of our operations, properties and customers are located in Argentina. As a result, our business is to a very large extent dependent upon the economic conditions prevailing in Argentina. The continuing rise of inflation may have an adverse effect on the economy. After several years of price stability, the devaluation of the Peso in January 2002 imposed pressures on the domestic price system that generated high inflation throughout 2002. In 2003, inflation substantially 15 Table of Contents stabilized. However, inflationary pressures have since reemerged with consumer prices increasing by 6.1% during 2004 and increasing by 12.3% in 2005. As a result of the execution of fixed price agreements and restrictions on, and in certain cases, suspension of exports, consumer prices only increased by 9.8% in 2006. As of November 30, 2007 consumer prices increased by 8.5% on an annualized basis. In the past, inflation has materially undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to create conditions conducive to growth. A return to a high inflation environment could slow the rebound in the long term credit market and real estate market and may also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the Peso devaluation and negatively impacting the level of economic activity and employment. If inflation remains high or continues to rise, Argentina’s economy may be negatively impacted which could have an adverse effect on our business. Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited which may affect its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth. In the first half of 2005, Argentina restructured part of its sovereign debt that had been in default since the end of 2001. As of March 31, 2007, the Argentine government announced that as a result of the restructuring, it had approximately US$136.3 billion in total outstanding debt remaining. Of this amount, approximately US$26.5 billion are defaulted bonds owned by creditors who did not participate in the restructuring of the external financial debt. Some bondholders in the United States, Italy and Germany have filed legal actions against Argentina, and holdout creditors may initiate new suits in the future. Additionally, foreign shareholders of certain Argentine companies have filed claims in excess of US$17 billion before the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes, or ICSID, alleging that certain government measures are inconsistent with the fair and equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral treaties to which Argentina is a party. Argentina’s past default and its failure to restructure completely its remaining sovereign debt and fully negotiate with the holdout creditors may prevent Argentina from reentering the international capital markets. Litigation initiated by holdout creditors as well as ICSID claims may result in material judgments against the Argentine government and could result in attachments of, or injunctions relating to, assets of Argentina that the government intended for other uses. As a result, the government may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster growth which could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy and, consequently, our business. Significant devaluation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar may adversely affect the Argentine economy as well as our financial performance. Despite the positive effects of the real depreciation of the Peso in 2002 on the competitiveness of certain sectors of the Argentine economy, it has also had a far-reaching negative impact on the Argentine economy and on businesses and individuals’ financial condition. The devaluation of the Peso has had a negative impact on the ability of Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, initially led to very high inflation, significantly reduced real wages, had a negative impact on businesses whose success is dependent on domestic market demand, such as utilities and the financial industry, and adversely affected the government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. If the Peso devalues significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences to our business. Moreover, it would likely result in a decline in the value of our common shares and the ADSs as measured in U.S. dollars. 16 Table of Contents Significant appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar may adversely affect the Argentine economy. A substantial increase in the value of the Peso against the U.S. dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy. The appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar negatively impacts the financial condition of entities whose foreign currency-denominated assets exceed their foreign currency-denominated liabilities, such as us. In addition, in the short term, a significant real appreciation of the Peso would adversely affect exports. This could have a negative effect on GDP growth and employment as well as reduce the Argentine public sector’s revenues by reducing tax collection in real terms, given its current heavy reliance on taxes on exports. The appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar could have an adverse effect on the Argentine economy and our business. Government measures to preempt or respond to social unrest may adversely affect the Argentine economy. During its crisis in 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced social and political turmoil, including civil unrest, riots, looting, nationwide protests, strikes and street demonstrations. Despite Argentina’s ongoing economic recovery and relative stabilization, social and political tension and high levels of poverty and unemployment continue. Future government policies to preempt, or in response to, social unrest may include expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, suspension of the enforcement of creditors’ rights, new taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and changes in laws and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. Such policies could destabilize the country and adversely and materially affect the economy, and thereby our business. Exchange controls and restrictions on transfers abroad and capital inflow restrictions have limited and can be expected to continue to limit the availability of international credit. In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. These restrictions have been substantially eased, including those requiring the Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad in order to pay principal and interest on debt obligations. However, Argentina may re-impose exchange control or transfer restrictions in the future, among other things, in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the Peso. In addition, the government issued Decree No. 616/2005 in June 2005 that established new controls on capital inflows that could result in less availability of international credit. Pursuant to such Decree, the Ministry of Economy’s Resolution No. 292/2005 was repealed and it was established that any indebtedness in favor of foreign creditors by individuals and legal entities residing in Argentina and conducting business in the private sector must be settled in Argentina and must mature no earlier than 365 days irrespective of the manner of settlement, except in the following cases: transactions related to foreign trade financing, and original issuances of debt instruments admitted to public offering and listed in self-regulated stock exchanges. Therefore, (a) any cash inflows in the domestic foreign exchange market arising from debts incurred with foreign creditors by individuals or legal entities in the private sector and (b) transfer by non-residents to acquire financial assets or liabilities of any kind in the financial and non-financial private sector, excluding direct foreign investment and original issuances of debt instruments admitted to public offering and listed on self-regulated stock exchanges must meet the following requirements: (i) they may be remitted abroad only after expiration of a term of at least 365 days counted after the date on which such funds officially entered the Argentine foreign exchange market; (ii) the amounts resulting from the exchange rate settlement transaction are to be deposited in an account opened at an Argentine banking system institution, (iii) a non-transferable, non-interest bearing deposit of 30% of the amount being settled is to be made in the name of the depositor for a term of 365 days and (iv) such deposit is to be held in U.S. dollars at one of the Argentine banking system institutions and may not be used as guarantee or collateral of any loan. Non-compliance with the requirements laid down in Decree 616/2005 shall be punished in accordance with the Criminal Foreign Exchange Regime. 17 Table of Contents Additional controls could have a negative effect on the economy and our business if imposed in an economic environment where access to local capital is substantially constrained. Moreover, in such event, restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad may impede your ability to receive dividend payments as a holder of ADSs. Payment of dividends to non-residents has been limited in the past and may be limited again. Beginning on February 2002, any payment of dividends, irrespective of amount, outside Argentina needed prior authorization from the Central Bank. In December 2002 the rule was amended through Communication “A” 3845 which required Argentine companies to obtain prior authorization from the Central Bank to purchase currency in excess of US$150,000 (in the aggregate) per calendar month. This rule applied, among others, to the payment of dividends. On January 7, 2003, the Central Bank issued communication “A” 3859 which is still enforceable and pursuant to which Argentine companies have no limitation on their ability to purchase foreign currency and transfer it outside Argentina to pay dividends, to the extent such dividend payments result from an approved and audited financial statement. In the future, similar restrictions may be enacted by the Argentine government or the Central Bank again and, if this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on the value of our common shares and the ADSs. The stability of the Argentine banking system is uncertain. During 2001 and the first half of 2002, a very significant amount of deposits were withdrawn from financial institutions. This massive withdrawal of deposits was largely due to the loss of confidence of depositors in the Argentine government’s ability to repay its debts, including its debts within the financial system, and to maintain peso-dollar parity in the context of its solvency crisis. To prevent a run on the U.S. dollar reserves of local banks, the government restricted the amount of money that account holders could withdraw from banks and introduced exchange controls restricting capital outflows. The government subsequently imposed new restrictions and released a schedule stating how and when deposits would become available. These measures taken by the government to protect the solvency of the banking system, in particular the emergency laws that converted certain U.S. dollar-denominated debts into Pesos, generated significant opposition directly against banks from depositors frustrated by the loss of their savings. Many depositors instituted court challenges, eventually at the Supreme Court level, on constitutional grounds seeking restitution of their deposits in their original currency. Under Argentine law, Supreme Court rulings are limited to the particular facts and defendants in the case, although lower courts tend to follow precedent set by the Supreme Court. Initial Supreme Court rulings struck down on constitutional grounds pesification pursuant to Law No. 25,561 (the “Public Emergency Law”). However, the Supreme Court has found in subsequent holdings that emergency laws enacted by the Argentine Congress were necessary to mitigate the crisis, the regulations were not disproportionate to the emergency, and the measures did not violate the constitutional property rights of those affected. For instance, the Supreme Court held on December 27, 2006 in Massa, Juan Agustin vs. Poder Ejecutivo Nacional y Otro that banks should repay deposits originally denominated in U.S. dollars in Pesos at an exchange rate of Ps.1.40 per US$1.00, subject to CER or Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia indexation, plus interest, at a 4% annual rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, numerous other cases challenging the constitutionality of the pesification pursuant to the Public Emergency Law are still pending. We cannot assure you that the Supreme Court will consistently uphold the views expressed in its latest rulings, or that future rulings will not negatively affect the banking system as a whole. If the Argentine government is called upon to provide additional financial assistance to the banks through the issuance of additional government debt, this could add to Argentina’s outstanding debt and would increase the burdens of the public sector. While the condition of Argentina’s financial system has improved and depositors affected by the restrictions imposed in 2001 and 2002 have regained access to their deposits, albeit mainly in Pesos and subject 18 Table of Contents to certain restrictions, you should not underestimate the long-term implications of the most recent crisis for Argentina’s economy and the credibility of its financial system. Adverse economic developments, even if not related to or attributable to the financial system, could easily result in deposits flowing out of the banks and into the foreign exchange market, as depositors seek to shield their financial assets from a new crisis. Any run on deposits could create liquidity or even solvency problems for financial institutions and bring about similar measures or other government interventions. The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other global markets. Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other global markets. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into and securities from issuers in other countries, including Argentina. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including Mexico in 1994, the collapse of several Asian economies between 1997 and 1998, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation in January 1999. In addition, Argentina continues to be affected by events in the economies of its major regional partners. Furthermore, the Argentine economy may be adversely affected by events in developed economies which are trading partners or that impact the global economy. In the future, political and economic crises in the international markets can be expected to adversely affect the Argentine economy and its financial system and therefore our business. Recent Presidential and Congressional elections may adversely affect the Argentine economy. On October 28, 2007, presidential and congressional elections took place in Argentina. Cristina Fernández-Kirchner was elected as President, the ruling party maintained the majority in Congress and as a resultthere exists uncertainty regarding the economic policy to be carried out by the new government. There are no assurances that future uncertainties preceding and resulting from the Congressional and the Presidential elections will not negatively impact the Argentine economy and/or local bonds and stock markets. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to risks inherent to the operation of shopping centers that may affect our profitability. Shopping centers are subject to various factors that affect their development, administration and profitability. These factors include: • the accessibility and the attractiveness of the area where the shopping center is located; • the intrinsic attractiveness of the shopping center; • the flow of people and the level of sales of each shopping center rental unit; • increasing competition from internet sales; • the amount of rent collected from each shopping center rental unit; and • the fluctuations in occupancy levels in the shopping centers. An increase in operating costs, caused by inflation or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on us if our tenants are unable to pay higher rent due to the increase in expenses. Moreover, the shopping center business is closely related to consumer spending and to the economy in which customers are 19 Table of Contents located. All of our shopping centers are in Argentina, and, as a consequence, their business could be seriously affected by potential recession in Argentina. For example, during the economic crisis in Argentina, spending decreased significantly, unemployment, political instability and inflation significantly reduced consumer spending in Argentina, lowering tenants’ sales and forcing some tenants to leave our shopping centers. If this were to occur again, it could have a material adverse effect on the revenues from the shopping center activity. Our performance is subject to risks associated with our properties and with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets, and consequently the value of the securities issued by us, are subject to the risk that if our properties do not generate sufficient revenues to meet its operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected. Events or conditions beyond our control that may adversely affect our operations or the value of our properties include: • downturns in the national, regional and local economic climate; • volatility and decline in discretionary spending; • competition from other real estate operators which might down our prices and profits; • oversupply of retail space or a reduction in demand for retail space, which could result in lower rent prices and lower revenues for us; • changes in interest rates and availability of financing; • the exercise by our tenants of their legal right to early termination of their leases; • vacancies, changes in market rental rates and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space; • increased operating costs, including insurance expense, utilities, real estate taxes, state and local taxes and heightened security costs; • civil disturbances, earthquakes and other natural disasters, or terrorist acts or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; • significant expenditures associated with each investment, such as debt service payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs which are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in revenues from a property; • declines in the financial condition of our tenants and our ability to collect rents from them; • changes in our ability or our tenants’ ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance, possibly decreasing the useful life of and revenue from property; and • law reforms and governmental regulations (such as those governing usage, zoning and real property taxes). If any one or more of the foregoing conditions were to affect our business, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents The loss of significant tenants could adversely affect the operating revenues and value of our shopping center. If certain of our most important tenants were to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn of business, or if we simply failed to retain their patronage, our business could be adversely affected. Our shopping centers are typically anchored by significant tenants, such as well known department stores who generate shopping traffic at the mall. A decision by such significant tenants to cease operations at our shopping centers could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of the affected segment and, by extension, on our financial condition and results of operations. The closing of one or more significant tenants may induce other tenants at an affected property to terminate their leases, to seek rent relief and/or cease operating their stores or otherwise adversely affect occupancy at the property. If we are not able to successfully lease the affected space again, the bankruptcy and/or closure of significant tenants, could have an adverse effect on both the operating revenues and underlying value of the properties involved. Our future acquisitions may be unprofitable. We intend to acquire additional shopping center properties to the extent that they will be acquired on advantageous terms and meet our investment criteria. Acquisitions of commercial properties entail general investment risks associated with any real estate investment, including: • our estimates of the cost of improvements needed to bring the property up to established standards for the market may prove to be inaccurate; • properties we acquire may fail to achieve within the time frames we project the occupancy or rental rates we project at the time we make the decision to acquire, which may result in the properties’ failure to achieve the returns we projected; • our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs; and • our investigation of a property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition cost. If we acquire a business, we will be required to integrate the operations, personnel and accounting and information systems of the acquired business. In addition, acquisitions of or investments in companies may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention away from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current tenants and employees. Some of the land we have purchased is not zoned for development purposes, and we may be unable to obtain, or may face delays in obtaining the necessary zoning permits and other authorizations. We own some plots of land which are not zoned for development purposes or for the type of developments we intend to propose. In addition, we do not yet have the required land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in our attempts to rezone land and to obtain all necessary permits and authorizations, or that rezoning efforts and permit requests will not be unreasonably delayed. Moreover, we may be affected by building moratoria and anti-growth legislation. If we are unable to obtain all of the governmental permits and authorizations we need to develop our present and future projects as planned, we may be forced to make unwanted modifications to such projects or abandon them altogether. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to grow will be limited if we cannot obtain additional capital. Our growth strategy is focused on the redevelopment of properties we already own and the acquisition and development of additional properties. As a result, we are likely to depend to an important degree on the availability of debt or equity capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We cannot guarantee that additional financing, refinancing or other capital will be available in the amounts we desire or on favorable terms. Our access to debt or equity capital markets depends on a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential, our ability to pay dividends, our financial condition, our credit rating and our current and potential future earnings. Depending on the outcome of these factors, we could experience delay or difficulty in implementing our growth strategy on satisfactory terms, or be unable to implement this strategy. Our business is subject to extensive regulation and additional regulations may be imposed in the future. Our activities are subject to federal, state and municipal laws, and to regulations, authorizations and licenses required with respect to construction, zoning, use of the soil, environmental protection and historical patrimony, consumer protection and other requirements, all of which affect our ability to acquire land, develop and build projects and negotiate with customers. In addition, companies in this industry are subject to increasing tax rates, the creation of new taxes and changes in the taxation regime. We are required to obtain licenses and authorizations with different governmental authorities in order to carry out our projects. Maintaining our licenses and authorizations can be a costly provision. In the case of non-compliance with such laws, regulations, licenses and authorizations, we may face fines, project shutdowns, cancellation of licenses and revocation of authorizations. In addition, public authorities may issue new and stricter standards, or enforce or interpret existing laws and regulations in a more restrictive manner, which may force us to make expenditures to comply with such new rules. Development activities are also subject to risks relating to potential delays or an inability to obtain all necessary zoning, environmental, land-use, development, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. Any such delays or failures to obtain such government approvals may have an adverse effect on our business. In the past, the Argentine government imposed strict and burdensome regulations regarding leases in response to housing shortages, high rates of inflation and difficulties in accessing credit. Such regulations limited or prohibited increases on rental prices and prohibited eviction of tenants, even for failure to pay rent. Most of our leases provide that the tenants pay all costs and taxes related to their respective leased areas. In the event of a significant increase in the amount of such costs and taxes, the Argentine government may respond to political pressure to intervene by regulating this practice, thereby negatively affecting our rental income. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not impose similar or other regulations in the future. Changes in existing laws or the enactment of new laws governing the ownership, operation or leasing of properties in Argentina could negatively affect the Argentine real estate market and the rental market and materially and adversely affect our operations and profitability. Lease Law No. 23,091 imposes restrictions that limit our flexibility. Argentine laws governing leases impose certain restrictions, including the following: • lease agreements may not contain inflation adjustment clauses based on consumer price indexes or wholesale price indexes. Although many of our lease agreements contain readjustment clauses, these are not based on an official index nor do they reflect the inflation index. In the event of litigation it may be impossible for us to adjust the amounts owed to us under our lease agreements; • residential leases must comply with a mandatory minimum term of two years and retail leases must comply with a mandatory minimum term of three years except in the case of stands and/or spaces for special exhibitions; 22 Table of Contents • lease terms may not exceed ten years, except for leases regulated by Law No. 25,248 (which provides that leases containing a purchase option are not subject to term limitations); and • tenants may rescind commercial lease agreements after the initial six-month period. As a result of the foregoing, we are exposed to the risk of increases of inflation under our leases and the exercise of rescission rights by our tenants could materially and adversely affect our business and we cannot assure you that our tenants will not exercise such right, especially if rent values stabilize or decline in the future. Eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time consuming. Although Argentine law permits a summary proceeding to collect unpaid rent and a special proceeding to evict tenants, eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time-consuming. Historically, the heavy workloads of the courts and the numerous procedural steps required have generally delayed landlords’ efforts to evict tenants. Eviction proceedings generally take between six months and two years from the date of filing of the suit to the time of actual eviction. Historically, delinquency regarding our office rental space has been very low, approximately 2%, and we have usually attempted to negotiate the termination of lease agreements with defaulting tenants after the first few months of non-payment in order to avoid legal proceedings. Delinquency may increase significantly in the future, and such negotiations with tenants may not be as successful as they have been in the past. Moreover, new Argentine laws and regulations may forbid or restrict eviction proceedings, and in such case, they would likely have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Our investment in property development or redevelopment may be less profitable than we anticipate. We are engaged in the development and construction of shopping centers and residential apartment complexes, frequently through third-party contractors. Risks associated with our development, re-development and construction activities include the following, among others: • abandonment of development opportunities and renovation proposals; • construction costs of a project may exceed its original estimates for reasons including raises in interest rates or increases in the costs of materials and labor, making a project unprofitable; • occupancy rates and rents at newly completed properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, resulting in lower than projected rental rates and a corresponding lower return on our investment; • pre-construction buyers may default on their purchase contracts or units in new buildings may remain unsold upon completion of construction; • the unavailability of favorable financing alternatives in the private and public debt markets; • sale prices for residential units may be insufficient to cover development costs; • construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; and • we may be unable to obtain, or may face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, or we may be affected by building moratoria and anti-growth legislation. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to great competitive pressure. All of our properties are located in Argentina. There are other shopping centers and numerous smaller retail stores and residential properties within the market area of each of our properties. The number of competing properties in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease retail space in our shopping centers or sell units in our residential complexes and on the amount of rent or the sale price that we are able to charge. To date, there have been relatively few companies competing with us for shopping center properties. However, if additional companies become active in the Argentine shopping center market in the future, such competition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our assets are highly concentrated in certain geographic areas and an economic downturn in such areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, 83.5% of our sales from leases and services were derived from properties in the City of Buenos Aires and the greater Buenos Aires metropolitan area. Although we own properties and may acquire or develop additional properties outside of the City of Buenos Aires and the greater Buenos Aires metropolitan area, we expect to continue to depend to a very large extent on economic conditions affecting those areas and therefore, an economic downturn in those areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our dependence on rental income may adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations. The substantial majority of our income is derived from rental income from real property. As a result, our performance depends on our ability to collect rent from tenants. Our income and funds for distribution would be negatively affected if a significant number of our tenants, or any of our major tenants (as discussed in more detail below): • Delay lease commencements; • Decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration; • Fail to make rental payments when due; or • Close stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenant’s leases and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases. In addition, we cannot be sure that any tenant whose lease expires will renew that lease or that we will be able to re-lease space on economically advantageous terms. The loss of rental revenues from a number of our tenants and our inability to replace such tenants may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to meet debt and other financial obligations. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance, and certain kinds of insurance coverage may become prohibitively expensive. We currently carry liability, fire, business interruption, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties. Although we believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are generally customary, there are certain types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims and terrorism and acts of war that generally are not insured. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot assure you that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our insurance coverage in an adequate amount or at reasonable prices. Insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to terrorist acts and mold, or, if offered, these types of insurance may be prohibitively 24 Table of Contents expensive. Moreover, we do not purchase life or disability insurance for any of our key employees. If any of our key employees were to die or become incapacitated, we could experience losses caused by a disruption in our operations which will not be covered by insurance, and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our level of debt may adversely affect our operations and our ability to pay our debt as it becomes due. We had, and expect to continue to have, substantial liquidity and capital resource requirements to finance our business. As of June 30, 2007, our consolidated financial debt amounted to Ps.756.0 million (including accrued and unpaid interests and deferred financing costs). Although we are generating sufficient funds from operating cash flows to satisfy our debt service requirements and our capacity to obtain new financing is adequate, we cannot assure you that we will maintain such cash flow and adequate financial structure in the future. The fact that we are leveraged may affect our ability to refinance existing debt or borrow additional funds to finance working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditures. This would require us to allocate a substantial portion of cash flow to repay principal and interest, thereby reducing the amount of money available to invest in operations, including acquisitions and capital expenditures. Our leverage could also affect our competitiveness and limit our ability to react to market conditions, the real estate industry and economic downturns. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to satisfy our debt service requirements or to obtain future financing. If we cannot satisfy our debt service requirements or if we default on any financial or other covenants in our debt arrangements, the holders of our debt will be able to accelerate the maturity of such debt or cause defaults under the other debt arrangements. Our ability to service debt obligations or to refinance them will depend upon our future financial and operating performance, which will, in part, be subject to factors beyond our control such as macroeconomic conditions and regulatory changes in Argentina. If we cannot obtain future financing, we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our planned capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our ability to generate cash flows and repay our obligations. The shift of consumers to purchasing goods over the Internet may negatively affect sales in our shopping centers. During the last years, retail sales by means of the Internet have grown significantly in Argentina, even though the market share of Internet sales related to retail sales is still not significant. The Internet enables manufacturers and retailers to sell directly to consumers, diminishing the importance of traditional distribution channels such as retail stores and shopping centers. We believe that our target consumers are increasingly using the Internet, from home, work or elsewhere, to shop electronically for retail goods, and this trend is likely to continue. If e-commerce and retail sales through the Internet continue to grow, consumers’ reliance on traditional distribution channels such as our shopping centers could be materially diminished, having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. We are subject to payment default risks due to our investments in credit card businesses We own an 80% interest in Tarshop S.A., or Tarshop, a credit card company that originates credit card accounts to promote sales from our tenants and other selected retailers. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, Tarshop had net revenues of Ps.213.0 million, representing 44.1% of our revenues. Credit card businesses such as Tarshop are adversely affected by defaults or late payments by card holders on credit card accounts, difficulties enforcing collection of payments, fraudulent accounts and the writing off of past due receivables. The present rates of delinquency, collection proceedings and loss of receivables may vary and be affected by numerous factors beyond our control, which, among others, include: • adverse changes in the Argentine economy; 25 Table of Contents • adverse changes in the regional economies; • political instability; • increases in unemployment; and • erosion of real and/or nominal salaries. These and other factors may have an adverse effect on rates of delinquency, collections and receivables, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of Tarshop’s credit card business. In addition, if our credit card business is adversely affected by one or more of the above factors, the quality of our securitized receivables is also likely to be adversely affected. Therefore, we could be adversely affected to the extent that we hold an interest in any such securitized receivables. Our subordinated interest in Tarshop’s securitized assets may have no value. Tarshop S.A. is a credit card company that originates credit card accounts to promote sales from our tenants and other selected retailers. Tarshop’s accounts receivables, which consist of cash flows from consumer financing and personal loans, are placed into a number of trust accounts that securitize those receivables. Tarshop sells beneficial interests in these trust accounts through the sale of debt certificates, but remains a beneficiary of these trust accounts by holding Ps.77.8 million in equity certificates as of June 30, 2007. We cannot assure you that collection of payments from credit card accounts will be sufficient to distribute earnings to holders of participation certificates, which would reduce Tarshop’s earnings. In addition, local authorities might increase credit card or trust account regulations, negatively affecting Tarshop’s revenues and results of operation. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from our negligence or intentional misconduct or that of our agents. Tenants are generally required, at the tenant’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. We have obtained comprehensive liability, casualty, property, flood and coverage for loss of profits due to the ocurrence of a disaster on our properties. All of these policies may involve substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. In addition, we cannot assure the holders that the tenants will properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to recover the mortgage loans we have provided to purchasers of units in our residential development properties. In recent years, we have provided mortgage financing to purchasers of units in our residential development properties. Before January 2002, our mortgage loans were U.S. dollar-denominated and accrued interest at a fixed interest rate generally ranging from 10% to 15% per year and for terms generally ranging from one to fifteen years. However, on March 13, 2002, the Central Bank converted all U.S. dollar denominated debts into Peso denominated debts at the exchange rate of Ps.1.00 = US$1.00. In addition, the Central Bank imposed maximum interest rates of 3% for residential mortgage loans to individuals and 6% for mortgage loans to businesses. These regulations adversely affected the U.S. dollar value of our outstanding mortgages. 26 Table of Contents Beside risks normally associated with providing mortgage financing, including the risk of default on principal and interest, other regulatory risks such as suspension of foreclosure enforcement proceedings could adversely affect our cash flow. Argentine law imposes significant restrictions on our ability to foreclose and auction properties. Thus, when there is a default under a mortgage, we do not have the right to foreclose on the unit. Instead, in accordance with Law No. 24,441, in order to reacquire a property we are required to purchase it at a court ordered public auction, or at an out-of-court auction. However, the Public Emergency Law temporarily suspended all judicial and non-judicial mortgage and pledge enforcement actions. Several laws and decrees extended this mortgage foreclosure suspension period. On June 14, 2006, a new suspension period was approved, which established a 180-day suspension period for mortgage foreclosure proceedings affecting debtors’ only dwellings and where the original loan was no higher than Ps.100,000. Law No. 25,798 enacted November 5, 2003, and implemented by Decrees No. 1284/2003 and No. 352/2004, among others, sets forth a system to restructure delinquent mortgage payments to prevent foreclosures on a debtor’s only dwelling (the “Mortgage Refinancing System”). The Mortgage Refinancing System establishes a trust over assets contributed by the Argentine government and income from restructured mortgage loans. Banco de la Nación Argentina, in its capacity as trustee of said trust, enters into debt restructuring agreements with delinquent mortgage debtors establishing the following terms: (i) a grace period on the mortgage loan of one year and (ii) monthly installment payments on the mortgage loan not to exceed 30% of the aggregate income of the family living in the mortgaged property. Banco de la Nación Argentina then subrogates the mortgagee’s rights against the debtor, by issuing notes delivered to the mortgagee to settle the amounts outstanding on the mortgage loan. The sum restructured under the Mortgage Refinancing System may not exceed the appraisal value of the property securing the mortgage after deducting any debts for taxes and maintenance. The Mortgage Refinancing System was established for a limited period of time, during which parties to a mortgage loan agreement could opt to participate in it. However, it was extended by a number of decrees and laws. Law No. 26,167, enacted in November, 2006 established a special proceeding to replace ordinary trials regarding the enforcement of mortgage loans. Such special proceedings give creditors ten days to inform the debtor of the amounts owed to them and later agree with the debtor on the amount and terms of payment. If the parties fail to reach an agreement, payment conditions are to be determined by the judge. We cannot assure you that laws and regulations relating to foreclosure on real estate will not continue to change in the future or that any changes will not adversely affect our business, financial condition or result of operations. We are controlled by two principal shareholders. As of November 30, 2007, IRSA and Parque Arauco, our major shareholders, owned in the aggregate 92% of our capital stock. These principal shareholders control us and have significant influence on the election of our directors and the outcome of any action requiring shareholder approval. We are dependent on our chairman Eduardo S. Elsztain. Our success depends on the continued employment of Eduardo S. Elsztain, chairman of the board of directors, who has significant expertise and knowledge of our business and industry. The loss of or interruption in his services for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success also depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. A failure to hire or retain qualified personnel may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Due to the currency mismatches between our assets and liabilities, we have significant currency exposure. As of June 30, 2007, the majority of our liabilities, such as our Series I Notes and our convertible notes are denominated in U.S. dollars while our revenues and most of our assets as of June 30, 2007 are denominated in Pesos. This currency gap exposes us to a risk of exchange rate volatility, which would negatively affect our financial results if the dollar were to appreciate against the Peso. Any further depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar will correspondingly increase the amount of our debt in Pesos, with further adverse effects on our results of operation and financial condition and may increase the collection risk of our leases and other receivables from our tenants and mortgage debtors, most of whom have Peso-denominated revenues. Risks Related to the American Shares and the Shares Shares eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of our shares and American Depositary Shares (“ADS”) The market prices of our common shares and ADS could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of common shares or ADS in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The ADS are freely transferable under U.S. securities laws, including shares sold to our affiliates. IRSA and Parque Arauco, which as of November 30, 2007 own approximately 92.0% of our common shares (or approximately 719,743,632 common shares which may be exchanged for an aggregate of 17,993,591 ADS), are free to dispose of any or all of their common shares or ADS at any time in their discretion. Sales of a large number of our common shares and/or ADS would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and the ADS. Different Corporate Disclosure and Accounting Standards. We are subject to certain different corporate disclosure requirements and accounting standards than domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States There may be less publicly available information about the issuers of securities listed on the Buenos Aires Stock Market (Bolsa de Comercio de Buenos Aires) than is regularly published by or about domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States and certain other countries. In addition, all listed Argentine companies must prepare their financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Argentina which differ in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. Consequently, the presentation of Argentine financial statements and reported earnings may differ from that of companies in other countries in this and other respects. We are exempt from the rules under the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Investors may not be able to effect service of process within the U.S., limiting their recovery of any foreign judgment We are a publicly held stock corporation (sociedad anónima) organized under the laws of Argentina. Most of our directors and senior managers, and most of our assets are located in Argentina. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such persons or to enforce against them in United States courts judgments obtained in such courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. We have been advised by our Argentine counsel, Zang, Bergel & Viñes, that there is doubt whether the Argentine courts will enforce in all respects, to the same extent and in as timely a manner as a U.S. or foreign court, an action predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or other foreign regulations brought against such persons or against us. 28 Table of Contents If we are considered to be a Passive Foreign Investment Company for United States federal income tax purposes, United States holders of our securities would suffer negative consequences Based on the current and projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets we do not believe we were a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”), for United States federal income tax purposes for the tax year ending June 30, 2007, and we do not currently expect to become a PFIC, although there can be no assurance in this regard. The determination of whether we are a PFIC is made annually. Accordingly, it is possible that we may be a PFIC in the current or any future taxable year due to changes in our asset or income composition or if our projections are not accurate. The volatility and instability of Argentina’s economic and financial system may substantially affect the composition of our income and assets and the accuracy of our projections. If we become a PFIC, United States Holders of our shares or ADS will be subject to certain United States federal income tax rules that have negative consequences for United States Holders such as additional tax and an interest charge upon certain distributions by us or upon a sale or other disposition of our shares or ADS at a gain, as well as reporting requirements. Please see “Taxation-United States Taxation” for a more detailed discussion of the consequences if we are deemed a PFIC. You should consult your own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to your particular circumstances. Under Argentine law, shareholder rights may be fewer or less well defined than in other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and by Argentine corporate law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the States of Delaware or New York, or in other jurisdictions outside Argentina. In addition, your rights or the rights of holders of our common shares to protect your or their interests in connection with actions by our board of directors may be fewer and less well defined under Argentine corporate law than under the laws of those other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are illegal under Argentine law, the Argentine securities markets are not as highly regulated or supervised as the US securities markets or markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing and regarding the preservation of shareholder interests may be less well defined and enforced in Argentina than in the United States, putting holders of our common shares and ADSs at a potential disadvantage. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Argentina are different from and more limited than those in the United States and may be more difficult to enforce. Under Argentine law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and much more limited than, those in the United States and some other Latin American countries. For example, the legal framework with respect to shareholder disputes, such as derivative lawsuits and class actions, is less developed under Argentine law than under U.S. law as a result of Argentina’s short history with these types of claims and few successful cases. In addition, there are different procedural requirements for bringing these types of shareholder lawsuits. As a result, it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a US company. Holders of common shares may determine not to pay any dividends. In accordance with Argentine corporate law we may pay dividends to shareholders out of net and realized profits, if any, as set forth in our audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Argentine GAAP. The approval, amount and payment of dividends are subject to the approval by our shareholders at our annual ordinary shareholders meeting. The approval of dividends requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate enough net and realized profits so as to pay dividends or that our shareholders will decide that dividends will be paid. 29 Table of Contents 