Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem insignificant, may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. Economic conditions may negatively impact demand for our products, which could adversely impact our sales and operating profit. The willingness of our customers and consumers to purchase our products depends in part on economic conditions. In recent years, economic conditions were significantly strained in the United States. Continuing or worsening economic challenges could have a negative impact on our business. Economic uncertainty may result in increased pressure to reduce the prices of some of our products, limit our ability to increase or maintain prices, and reduce sales of higher margin products or shift our product mix to low-margin products. In addition, changes in tax or interest rates, whether due to recession, financial and credit market disruptions or other reasons, could negatively impact us. If any of these events occurs, or if unfavorable economic conditions continue or worsen, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Increases in costs and/or shortages of raw materials, fuels and utilities could adversely impact our profitability. Commodities, such as flour, sweeteners, shortening, and water which are used in our bakery products, are subject to price fluctuations. The cost of these inputs may fluctuate widely due to government policies and regulations, weather conditions, domestic and international demand, or other unforeseen circumstances. Any substantial change in the prices or availability of raw materials may have an adverse impact on our profitability. We enter into forward purchase agreements and other derivative financial instruments from time to time to manage the impact of such volatility in raw materials prices; however, these strategies may not be adequate to overcome increases in market prices or availability. Our failure to enter into hedging arrangements or any decrease in the availability or increase in the cost of these agreements and instruments could increase the price of these raw materials and significantly affect our earnings. In addition, we are dependent upon natural gas or propane for firing ovens. The independent distributors and third-party transportation companies are dependent upon gasoline and diesel for their vehicles. The cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances. Substantial future increases in prices for, or shortages of, these fuels could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that we can cover these potential cost increases through future pricing actions. Also, as a result of these pricing actions, consumers could purchase less or move from purchasing high-margin products to lower-margin products. Competition could adversely impact revenues and profitability. The United States bakery industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors in these categories all have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources. In most product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with store branded products that are generally sold at lower prices. Competition is based on product availability, product quality, price, effective promotions, and the ability to target changing consumer preferences. We experience price pressure from time to time due to competitors’ promotional activity and other pricing efforts. This pricing pressure is particularly strong during adverse economic periods. Increased competition could result in reduced sales, margins, profits and market share. A disruption in the operation of our DSD distribution model could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A material negative change in our relationship with the independent distributors, litigation or one or more adverse rulings by courts or regulatory or governmental bodies in various jurisdictions regarding our independent distributorship model, including actions or decisions that could affect the independent contractor classifications of the independent distributors, or an adverse judgment against the company for actions taken by the independent distributors could materially and negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 9 The costs of maintaining and enhancing the value and awareness of our brands are increasing, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. We rely on the success of our well-recognized brand names and we intend to maintain our strong brand recognition by continuing to devote resources to advertising, marketing and other brand building efforts. Brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. Our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share. If we are not able to successfully maintain our brand recognition, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. We rely on several large customers for a significant portion of our sales and the loss of one of our large customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have several large customers that account for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of one of our large customers could adversely affect our results of operations. Our top ten customers accounted for 43.5% of our sales during fiscal 2015. Our largest customer, Walmart/Sam’s Club, accounted for 19.3% of our sales during this period. These customers do not typically enter into long-term sales contracts, and instead make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand, and customer service performance. At any time, they may use more of their shelf space, including space currently used for our products, for store branded products or for products from other suppliers. Additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from us. Disputes with significant suppliers could also adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers. If our sales to one or more of these customers are reduced, this reduction may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Inability to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer preferences may result in decreased demand for our products, which could have an adverse impact on our future growth and operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to respond to current market trends and to anticipate the tastes and dietary habits of consumers, including concerns of consumers regarding health and wellness, obesity, product attributes, and ingredients. Introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on that investment will be less than anticipated and our strategy to grow sales and profits with investments in marketing and innovation will be less successful. If we fail to anticipate, identify, or react to changes in consumer preferences, or we fail to introduce new or improved products on a timely basis we could experience reduced demand for our products, which could in turn cause our operating results to suffer. We may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute acquisitions and divestitures and integrate acquired operations. From time to time, the company undertakes acquisitions or divestitures. In fiscal 2015, we acquired DKB and Alpine and in fiscal 2013 we acquired the Acquired Hostess Bread Assets, certain assets and the Sara Lee trademark licenses from BBU in California, and a bun line in Modesto, California. The success of these acquisitions, or any other acquisition or divestiture depends on the company’s ability to identify opportunities that help us meet our strategic objectives, consummate a transaction on favorable contractual terms, and achieve expected returns and other financial benefits. Acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions, require us to efficiently integrate the acquired business or businesses, which involves a significant degree of difficulty, including the following: · integrating the operations of the acquired businesses while carrying on the ongoing operations of the businesses we operated prior to the acquisitions; · managing a significantly larger company than before consummation of the acquisitions; · the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying our expectations regarding the integration process; · coordinating a greater number of diverse businesses and businesses located in a greater number of geographic locations; · integrating different business cultures; · attracting and retaining the necessary personnel associated with the acquisitions; · creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems and controlling the costs associated with such matters; and · integrating information, purchasing, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems. 10 Divestitures have operational risks that may include impairment charges. Divestitures also present unique financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from the existing core business, separating personnel and financial data and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. In situations where acquisitions or divestitures are not successfully implemented or completed, the company’s business or financial results could be negatively impacted. This risk includes our expectations about the performance of acquired trademarks and brands. If we are unable to implement our growth strategies for these acquired intangible assets as expected, it could adversely impact the carrying value of the acquired brands. The fair value of the trademarks could be less than our carrying value if any of our four material assumptions in our fair value analysis: (a) weighted average cost of capital; (b) long-term sales growth rates; (c) forecasted operating margins; and (d) market multiples do not meet our expectations, thereby requiring us to record an asset impairment. We are subject to increasing legal complexity and could be party to litigation that may adversely affect our business. Increasing legal complexity may negatively affect our operations and results in material ways. We could be subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business, including class actions, administrative proceedings, government investigations, employment and personal injury claims, disputes with current or former suppliers, claims by current or former independent distributors, and intellectual property claims (including claims that we infringed another party’s trademarks, copyrights, or patents). Inconsistent standards imposed by governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to litigation. Litigation involving our independent distributor model and the independent contractor classification of the independent distributors, if determined adversely, could increase costs, negatively impact the business prospects of the independent distributors and subject us to incremental liability. We are also subject to the legal and compliance risks associated with privacy, data collection, protection and management, in particular as it relates to information we collect when we provide products to customers. Consolidation in the retail and foodservice industries could affect our sales and profitability. If our retail and foodservice customers continue to grow larger due to consolidation in their respective industries, they may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Meeting these demands could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our large customers may impose requirements on us that may adversely affect our results of operations. From time to time, our large customers may re-evaluate or refine their business practices and impose new or revised requirements on us and their other suppliers. The growth of large mass merchandisers, supercenters and dollar stores, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power and negotiating strength. Current trends among retailers and foodservice customers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding new products or increased promotional programs, requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices, and requiring product delivery with shorter lead times. These business changes may involve inventory practices, logistics, or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. Compliance with requirements imposed by major customers may be costly and may have an adverse effect on our margins and profitability. However, if we fail to meet a significant customer’s demands, we could lose that customer’s business, which also could adversely affect our results of operations. Our inability to execute our business strategy could adversely affect our business. We employ various operating strategies to maintain our position as one of the nation’s leading producers and marketers of bakery products available to customers through multiple channels of distribution. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or executing one or more of these strategies, our business could be adversely affected. Increases in employee and employee-related costs could have adverse effects on our profitability. Pension, health care, and workers’ compensation costs are increasing and will likely continue to do so. Any substantial increase in pension, health care or workers’ compensation costs may have an adverse impact on our profitability. The company records pension costs and the liabilities related to its benefit plans based on actuarial valuations, which include key assumptions determined by management. Material changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. Future annual amounts could be impacted by various factors, such as changes in the number of plan participants, changes in the discount rate, changes in the expected long-term rate of return, changes in the level of contributions to the plan, and other factors. In addition, legislation or regulations involving labor and employment and employee benefit plans (including employee health care benefits and costs) may impact our operational results. 11 We have risks related to our pension plans, which could impact the company’s liquidity. The company has trusteed, noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain employees maintained under the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, including the performance of our common stock, which comprised approximately 11.8% of all the pension plan assets as of January 2, 2016. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected, the likelihood of the company being required to make larger contributions will increase which could impact our liquidity. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can impact our contribution requirements. In a low interest rate environment, the likelihood of larger required contributions increases. Adverse developments in any of these areas could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. Disruption in our supply chain or distribution capabilities from political instability, armed hostilities, incidents of terrorism, natural disasters, weather or labor strikes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics or labor strikes, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Moreover, terrorist activity, armed conflict, political instability or natural disasters that may occur within or outside the U.S. may disrupt manufacturing, labor, and other business operations. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Future product recalls or safety concerns could adversely impact our results of operations. We may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated, spoiled, tampered with or damaged. We also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. A product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results, depending on the costs of the recall, the destruction of product inventory, competitive reaction and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or without merit, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products could adversely affect our reputation and brand image. We also could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products. We may be adversely impacted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately, including with respect to cybersecurity issues. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems (including those provided to us by third parties) to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in billing, collecting, and ordering errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches or intrusions (including theft of customer, consumer or other confidential data), and viruses. If we are unable to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks and other information security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, be subject to litigation or incur remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, suppliers or employees. Government regulation could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. As a producer and marketer of food items, our production processes, product quality, packaging, labeling, storage, and distribution are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local government entities and agencies. In addition, the marketing and labeling of food products has come under increased scrutiny in recent years, and the food industry has been subject to an increasing number of legal proceedings and claims relating to alleged false or deceptive marketing and labeling under federal, state or local laws or regulations. Uncertainty regarding labeling standards has led to customer confusions and legal challenges. Compliance with federal, state and local regulations is costly and time consuming. Failure to comply with, or violations of, applicable laws and the regulatory requirements of one or more of these agencies could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, 12 injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could result in increased operating costs and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Legal proceedings or claims related to our marketing could damage our reputation and/or adversely affect our business or financial results. Executive Offices The address and telephone number of our principal executive offices are 1919 Flowers Circle, Thomasville, Georgia 31757, (229) 226-9110. 13 Executive Officers of Flowers Foods The following table sets forth certain information regarding the persons who currently serve as the executive officers of Flowers Foods. Our Board of Directors elects our Executive Chairman of the Board for a one-year term. The Board of Directors has granted the Executive Chairman of the Board the authority to appoint the executive officers to hold office until they resign or are removed. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Name, Age and Office Business Experience Allen L. Shiver Age 60 President and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Shiver has been President and Chief Executive Officer of Flowers Foods since May 2013. Mr. Shiver was President of Flowers Foods from January 2010 to May 2013. Mr. Shiver previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Flowers Foods from May 2008 to December 2009. Prior to that he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Warehouse Segment from April 2003 until May 2008. Prior to that, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Snack from July 2002 until April 2003. Prior to that time Mr. Shiver served as Executive Vice President of Flowers Bakeries from 1998 until 2002, as a Regional Vice President of Flowers Bakeries in 1998, and as President of Flowers Baking Company of Villa Rica from 1995 until 1998. Prior to that time, Mr. Shiver served in various sales and marketing positions at Flowers Bakeries. R. Steve Kinsey Age 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Kinsey has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Kinsey previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Flowers Foods from September 2007 to May 2008. Prior to that he served as Vice President and Corporate Controller of Flowers Foods from June 2003 to September 2007. Prior to that he served as Corporate Controller from March 2002 to June 2003. Prior to that he served as Director of Tax of Flowers Foods from 2001 to March 2002 and at Flowers Industries from June 1998 to 2001. Mr. Kinsey served as Tax Manager of Flowers Industries from July 1994 to June 1998. Mr. Kinsey joined the company in July 1989 as a Tax Associate. Bradley K. Alexander Age 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Mr. Alexander has been Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since July 2014. Mr. Alexander previously served as President of Flowers Bakeries from May 2008 to July 2014. Prior to that time Mr. Alexander served as a Regional Vice President of Flowers Bakeries from 2003 until May 2008. Prior to that, he served in various sales, marketing and operational positions since joining the company in 1981, including bakery president and Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Stephen R. Avera Age 59 Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel Mr. Avera has been Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Mr. Avera previously served as Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of Flowers Foods from September 2004 to May 2008. Prior to that, he served as Secretary and General Counsel from February 2002 until September 2004. He also served as Vice President and General Counsel of Flowers Bakeries from July 1998 to February 2002. Mr. Avera also previously served as an Associate and Assistant General Counsel of Flowers Industries from February 1986 to July 1998. D. Keith Wheeler Age 52 President, Flowers Bakeries Mr. Wheeler was named President of Flowers Bakeries in July 2014. Mr. Wheeler previously served as a Senior Vice President of Flowers Foods’ West Coast Region from 2012 until July 2014. Prior to that time Mr. Wheeler served in various operational positions within the company, including bakery president, region controller, and director of both business systems and strategic planning. Robert B. Hysell Age 57 President, Flowers Foodservice Group Mr. Hysell has been President of Flowers Foodservice Group since January 2012. He previously served as Senior Vice President of Flowers Bakeries from 2011 to 2012, and prior to that served as Senior Vice President of Flowers Foods’ Specialty Group from 2003 through 2010. He joined the company in 2001, initially serving as Vice President of Sales for the company’s frozen pie business. Joseph G. Tashie Age 60 President, Flowers Cake Group Mr. Tashie has been President of Flowers Cake Group since January 2012. Mr. Tashie previously served as a Senior Vice President of Flowers Bakeries from 2002 to 2011. Prior to that time, he served in various sales, marketing, and operations positions since joining the company in 1978, including president at two Flowers bakeries. 14 Name, Age and Office Business Experience Marta Jones Turner Age 62 Executive Vice President of Corporate Relations Ms. Jones Turner has been Executive Vice President of Corporate Relations of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Ms. Jones Turner previously served as Senior Vice President of Corporate Relations of Flowers Foods from July 2004 to May 2008. Prior to that time, she served as Vice President of Communications and Investor Relations from November 2002 until July 2004. She also served as Vice President of Public Affairs of Flowers Industries from September 1997 until November 2002 and Director of Public Relations of Flowers Industries from 1985 until 1997. Ms. Jones Turner joined the company in 1978. Robert L. Benton, Jr. Age 58 Senior Vice President and Chief Manufacturing Officer Mr. Benton has been Senior Vice President and Chief Manufacturing Officer of Flowers Foods, Inc. since January 2015. Mr. Benton previously served as Senior Vice President of Manufacturing and Operations Support from January 2011 until January 2015, Vice President of Manufacturing from July 2001 until January 2011, and Director of Manufacturing from August 1993 until July 2001. Prior to that time Mr. Benton served in several manufacturing and operational management positions including regional manufacturing coordinator, bakery vice president of operations, director of manufacturing, and manufacturing manager at various locations throughout the company since 1980. H. Mark Courtney Age 55 Senior Vice President of Sales Mr. Courtney has been Senior Vice President of Sales of Flowers Bakeries since April of 2008. Prior to that time Mr. Courtney served in various sales, marketing, and operations positions, including Executive Vice President of Flowers Snack Group. Mr. Courtney joined the company in 1983. David A. Hubbard Age 46 Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer Mr. Hubbard has been Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Flowers Foods since December 2012. Prior to that he served as Vice President and Chief Information Officer from October 2011 to December of 2012. He previously served as Vice President, IT Technology and Development in 2011. Prior to that time, Mr. Hubbard was the IT Director, SAP Technology and eBusiness from 2003 through early 2011. Karyl H. Lauder Age 59 Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Ms. Lauder has been Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Flowers Foods since May 2008. Ms. Lauder previously served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Flowers Foods from September 2007 to May 2008. Ms. Lauder previously served as Vice President and Operations Controller of Flowers Foods from 2003 to 2007. Prior to that time, she served as Division Controller for Flowers Bakeries Group from 1997 to 2003. Prior to that time, Ms. Lauder served as a Regional Controller for Flowers Bakeries after serving as Controller and in other accounting supervisory positions at various bakery locations since 1978. Craig Parr Age 46 Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Risk Officer Mr. Parr has been Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Risk Officer since October 2012. Prior to joining Flowers Foods, Inc., Mr. Parr was with The Andersons, Inc. for 20 years, where he served as vice president of risk management and food ingredient supply, and in various leadership positions in accounting, treasury, quantitative analysis and purchasing. Dan W. Stone Age 59 Senior Vice President of Logistics and Chief Integration Officer Mr. Stone has been Senior Vice President of Logistics and Chief Integration Officer for Flowers Foods since January 2014. Mr. Stone previously served as Vice President of Logistics and Supply Chain Services from 2005 to 2014 and as Vice President of Purchasing from 2001 to 2005. Prior to that time, Mr. Stone served as Director of Purchasing from 1997 to 2001. From 1995 to mid 1997, Mr. Stone served as Division Controller for Flowers Bakeries after serving as Regional Controller from 1990 to 1995. Prior to that he served in several management positions including Executive Vice President of Operations and Controller at various bakery locations since joining the company in 1979. Tonja Taylor Age 56 Senior Vice President of Human Resources Ms. Taylor has been Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Flowers Foods since September 2013. Prior to that time she served as Vice President of Human Resources from 2008 until September 2013. Ms. Taylor began her career with Flowers in 1999 as Change Management Coordinator for a key information technology initiative. She joined the corporate Human Resources team in 2000 and served in various positions including Manager of Organizational Development, Director of Organizational Development, and Managing Director of Human Resources. 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 