Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained, in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation or other ineffective improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could result in regulatory enforcement action against us, adversely affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Economic conditions in California, New York or South Korea could adversely affect our loan portfolio and reduce the demand for our services. We focus our business primarily in Korean communities in California and in the greater New York City metropolitan area. Adverse economic conditions in our market areas have had a material adverse impact on the quality of our business. A continued economic slowdown in California, New York, or South Korea could have the following consequences, any of which could reduce our net income and adversely affect our financial condition: • loan delinquencies may increase; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • the level and duration of deposits may decline; • claims and lawsuits may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; and • collateral for loans may decline in value below the principal amount owed by the borrower. Our allowance for loan losses may not cover actual loan losses. If our actual loan losses exceed the amount we have allocated for estimated probable losses, it will hurt our business. We try to limit the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans by carefully underwriting the loans. Losses nevertheless occur. We create allowances for estimated loan losses in our accounting records. We base these allowances on estimates of the following: • historical experience with our loans; • evaluation of current economic conditions and other factors; • reviews of the quality, mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; • reviews of delinquencies; • the quality of the collateral underlying our loans. If these allowances are inadequate, our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected and we could be required to raise additional capital to enhance our capital position. In addition, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the adequacy of our allowance. 15 Table of Contents These agencies may require us to establish additional allowances based on their judgment of the information available at the time of their examinations. No assurance can be given that we will not sustain loan losses in excess of present or future levels of the allowance for loan losses. We have a high level of loans secured by real estate collateral. A further downturn in the real estate market could seriously impair our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 75% of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by various types of real estate. Real estate values have declined in the current economic downturn and we have experienced significant increases in nonperforming real estate loans and loan loss provisions, which significantly reduced our net income in 2009. If real estate values continue to decline significantly, especially in California or New York, and/or in the hospitality industry, higher vacancies and other factors could harm the financial condition of our borrowers, the collateral for our loans will provide less security, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Changes in interest rates affect our profitability. Changes in prevailing interest rates may hurt our business. We derive our income mainly from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the wider the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can greatly affect our income. In addition, interest rate fluctuations can affect how much money we may be able to lend. The interest rate risk inherent in our lending, investing, and deposit taking activities is a significant market risk to us and our business. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in minimizing the adverse effects of changes in interest rates. If we lose key employees, our business may suffer. Our future success depends on the continued contributions of existing senior management personnel. If we lose key employees temporarily or permanently, it could hurt our business. We could be particularly hurt if our key employees went to work for our competitors in the Korean American banking industry. In addition, the America Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 places certain restrictions on executive compensation that may impact our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management personnel. Environmental laws could force us to pay for environmental problems. The cost of cleaning up or paying damages and penalties associated with environmental problems could increase our operating expenses. When a borrower defaults on a loan secured by real property, we often purchase the property in foreclosure or accept a deed to the property surrendered by the borrower. We may also take over the management of commercial properties whose owners have defaulted on loans. We also lease premises where our branches and other facilities are located and where environmental problems may exist. Although we have lending, foreclosure and facilities guidelines intended to exclude properties with an unreasonable risk of contamination, hazardous substances may exist on some of the properties that we own, lease, manage or occupy. We may face the risk that environmental laws could force us to clean up the properties at our expense. It may cost much more to clean up a property than the property is worth. We could also be liable for pollution generated by a borrower’s operations if we take a role in managing those operations after a default. We may find it difficult or impossible to sell contaminated properties. We are exposed to the risks of natural disasters. A significant portion of our operations is concentrated in Southern California. California is in an earthquake-prone region. A major earthquake could result in material loss to us. A significant percentage of our loans are and will be secured by real estate. Many of our borrowers could suffer uninsured property damage, experience interruption of their businesses or lose their jobs after an earthquake. Those borrowers might not be able to repay their loans, and the collateral for such loans could decline significantly in value. Unlike a bank with operations that are more geographically diversified, we are vulnerable to greater losses if an earthquake, fire, flood or other natural catastrophe occurs in Southern California. 16 Table of Contents An increase in non-performing assets would reduce our income and increase our expenses. If the level of non-performing assets further increases in the future, it could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Non-performing assets are mainly loans on which the borrowers are not making their required payments. Non-performing assets also include loans that have been restructured to permit the borrower to have smaller payments and real estate that has been acquired through foreclosure of unpaid loans. To the extent that assets are non-performing, we have less or lower earning assets generating interest income and an increase in credit related expenses, including provisions for loan losses. Legislative and regulatory actions taken to address the recent stresses in the banking industry may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and stock price. Economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and legislative bodies placing increased scrutiny on the banking industry. The U.S. government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis. In addition to the Capital Purchase Program component of the U.S. Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, in which we participated by selling $67 million of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) and a warrant to purchase up to 1,042,531 shares (which has been subsequently reduced to 521,266 shares) of our common stock (the “Warrant”) to the U.S. Treasury Department, the U.S. government has taken steps that include enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of bank and other debt issuances, and increasing the levels of insurance on bank deposits. Our participation in the Capital Purchase Program subjects us to additional restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the price of our common stock. The U.S. Congress, through the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, has imposed a number of restrictions and limitations on the operations of banks and other financial services companies participating in the federal programs. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of commercial banks and other companies in the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices relating to, among others, interest rates, lending practices and compensation practices. Compliance with such current and potential regulation may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, make it more difficult to attract and retain key employees, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. We may experience adverse effects from possible future acquisitions. We have acquired other banking companies and bank offices in the past and consider additional acquisitions as opportunities arise. If we do not adequately address the financial and operational risks associated with acquisitions of other companies, we may incur material unexpected costs and disruption of our business. Risks involved in acquisitions of other companies include: • the risk of failure adequately to evaluate the asset quality of the acquired company; • difficulty in assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired company; • diversion of management’s attention from other important business activities; • difficulty in maintaining good relations with the loan and deposit customers of the acquired company; • inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; and • amortization of expenses related to acquired intangible assets that have finite lives. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans, and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts 17 Table of Contents adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. The level of our problem assets, our incurrence of operating losses or a failure to comply with requirements of the agencies which regulate us could result in regulatory actions against us which may adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. The DFI, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Reserve Board each have authority to take actions to require that we comply with applicable regulatory capital requirements, to cease engaging in what they perceive to be unsafe or unsound practices or to make other changes in our business. Among others, the corrective measures that such regulatory authorities may take include requiring us to enter into informal or formal agreements regarding our operations, the issuance of cease and desist orders to refrain from engaging in unsafe and unsound practices, removal of officers and directors, and the assessment of civil monetary penalties. See “Item 1. Business – Supervision and Regulation” for a further description of such regulatory powers. We have experienced increases in the level of our problem assets beginning in the latter part of 2008 which have resulted in increases in our net loan charge-offs and in our provisions for loan and lease losses and have caused operating losses. We are taking actions that we believe to be appropriate to address these adverse developments. At the request of the DFI, the Bank has submitted plans to the DFI and to the FRB for improvement of the Bank’s asset quality, maintenance of its capital at sufficient levels and improvement of its earnings. The Bank has also committed, through resolutions adopted by its board of directors, that it will not declare or pay dividends without the prior written approval of the DFI and the FRB and will not appoint new directors or senior executive officers or materially change the responsibilities of senior executive officers without prior notification to, and review of specified information regarding any such proposed changes, by the DFI and the FRB. The Board of Directors of Nara Bancorp recently adopted similar resolutions for Nara Bancorp after consultations with the FRB. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview.” Failure by the Bank to comply with the plans that it has submitted, or with revised plans if the initial plans are not accepted by the DFI and FRB, or with the other provisions of the resolutions adopted by the Bank’s board of directors could result in more formal regulatory action with respect to the Bank. Regulatory action could also be taken with respect to the Company. Increased deposit insurance costs may adversely affect our results of operations. Due to the greatly increased rate of bank failures experienced in the current period of financial stress, as well as the extraordinary programs in which the FDIC has been involved to support the banking industry generally, the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund has been substantially depleted and the FDIC has incurred substantially increased operating costs. For these reasons, the FDIC has significantly increased the rates of deposit insurance premiums that it charges insured banks, including Nara Bank, which has increased our costs of operation. Additional increases in the deposit insurance premium rates of the FDIC or other increases in costs related to deposit insurance may be imposed, which could result in further increases in Nara Bank’s operating costs. Changes in accounting standards may affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes and their impacts on us can be hard to predict and may result in unexpected and materially adverse impacts on our reported financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to operational risks relating to our technology and information systems. The continued efficacy of our technology and information systems, related operational infrastructure and relationships with third party vendors in our ongoing operations is integral to our performance. Failure of any of these resources, 18 Table of Contents including but not limited to operational or systems failures, interruptions of client service operations, and ineffectiveness of or interruption in third party data processing or other vendor support, could cause material disruptions of our business, impairment of customer relations and exposure to liability for our customers, as well as action by bank regulatory authorities. Our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, and in the communities we serve. Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, or our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business. As we expand outside our California markets, we may encounter additional risks that could adversely affect us. Currently, the substantial majority of our offices are located in California, but we also have five offices in New York and Northern New Jersey and plan to expand our branch network in those states. Over time, we may also seek to establish offices to serve Korean American communities in other parts of the United States. In the course of these expansion activities, we may encounter significant risks including increased marketing and administrative expenses and operational difficulties arising from our efforts to attract business in new markets, manage operations in noncontiguous geographic markets, comply with local laws and regulations and effectively and consistently manage our non-California personnel and business. If we are unable to manage these risks, our operations could be adversely affected. Adverse conditions in Korea could adversely affect our business. A substantial number of our customers have economic and cultural ties to Korea and, as a result, we are likely to feel the effects of adverse economic and political conditions in Korea. If economic conditions in Korea deteriorate, we could, among other things, be exposed to economic and transfer risk, and could experience an outflow of deposits by those of our customers with connections to Korea. Transfer risk may result when an entity is unable to obtain the foreign exchange needed to meet its obligations or to provide liquidity. This may adversely impact the recoverability of investments with or loans made to such entities. Adverse economic conditions in Korea may also negatively impact asset values and the profitability and liquidity of our customers who operate in this region. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make loans secured by real property does not ensure that the value of the real property collateral will be sufficient to repay our loans. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made and requires the exercise of a considerable degree of judgment and adherence to professional standards. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon sale or foreclosure of the property, whether due to declines in property value after the date of the original appraisal or defective preparation, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property and may suffer losses. Changes in governmental regulation may impair our operations or restrict our growth. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies regulate many aspects of our operations. These areas include: • the capital that must be maintained; • the dividend that may be paid; • the kinds of activities that can be engaged in; • the compensation that may be paid; • the kinds and amounts of investments that can be made; • the locations of offices; 19 Table of Contents • how much interest can be paid on demand deposits; • insurance of deposits and the premiums that must be paid for this insurance; and • how much cash must be set aside as reserves for deposits. We are subject to significant governmental supervision and regulation. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. Within the last several years Congress and the federal bank regulatory authorities have made significant changes to these statutes and regulations. There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or in their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. Nara Bank is subject to regulation and examination by the DFI and the FRB and Nara Bancorp is subject to the rules and regulations of the FRB. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, Nara Bank and Nara Bancorp are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which could materially affect the banking industry. If we fail to comply with federal and state bank regulations, the regulators may limit our activities or growth, fine us or force the bank into receivership. Banking laws and regulations change from time to time. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated or are less regulated. The short term and long term impact of the new Basel II capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules to be proposed for non-Basel II U.S. banks is uncertain As a result of the deterioration in the global credit markets and the potential impact of increased liquidity risk and interest rate risk, it is unclear what the short term impact of the implementation of Basel II may be or what impact a pending alternative standardized approach to Basel II option for non-Basel II U.S. banks may have on the cost and availability of different types of credit and the potential compliance costs of implementing the new capital standards. Our stock price may become more volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wider fluctuations in response to a number of factors, • issuing new equity securities; • the amount of our common stock outstanding and the trading volume of our stock; • actual or anticipated changes in our future financial performance; • changes in financial performance estimates of us by securities analysts; • competitive developments, including announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • the operating and stock performance of our competitors; • changes in interest rates; • addition or departures of key personnel; • changes in economic conditions that affect Bank performance; and • changes in legislation or regulations that affect the Bank We have suspended declaration and payment of dividends on our common stock. Our ability to declare and pay dividends in the future, as well as the ability of the Bank to make dividend payments to us, will be subject to regulatory, statutory and other restrictions. In March, 2009, we announced the suspension of our prior policy of paying quarterly dividends in order to preserve capital. In addition, the Company has agreed with the FRB and the Bank has agreed with the DFI and FRB that neither will declare or pay dividends without the prior written regulatory approval. Further, under Federal Reserve Board policy, bank holding companies are 20 Table of Contents expected to inform and consult with the Federal Reserve Supervisory Staff prior to declaring and paying a dividend that exceeds the holding company’s earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid. Our ability to declare and pay dividends on our outstanding common stock and preferred stock is also subject to further limitations under applicable federal and state law and regulations. See “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation.” Our outstanding preferred stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share, and the Warrant as well as other potential issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared and the accretion on discount on our outstanding preferred stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Our outstanding preferred stock would also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution, or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant is exercised. The 521,266 shares of common stock underlying the Warrant represent approximately 1.4% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant in total shares outstanding). Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. In addition, to the extent options to purchase common stock under our stock option plans are exercised, holders of our common stock will incur dilution of their ownership interest in Nara Bancorp. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. If we sell additional equity or convertible debt securities, these sales could result in increased dilution to our stockholders A continued decline in the value of our common stock may result in future impairment of our intangible assets. We assess the carrying value of intangible assets, including goodwill, at least annually in order to determine whether such assets are impaired. In reviewing the carrying value of intangible assets, we look to the market value of our common stock, compared to the book value. We further assess the recoverability of such intangible assets by evaluating the fair value of the related business unit. If recoverability is deemed impaired, a write down of such intangible assets would be required. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 