Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained, in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and disclosures to stockholders, to prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports and disclosures or prevent fraud, our business may be adversely affected and our reputation and operating results would be harmed. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures or difficulties encountered in their implementation may also result in regulatory enforcement action against us, adversely affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Economic conditions in California, New York or other markets in which we operate may adversely affect our loan portfolio and reduce the demand for our services. We focus our business primarily in Korean-American communities in California, the greater New York City metropolitan area and New Jersey. We also have banking operations in Chicago and Seattle. Adverse economic conditions in our market areas have had a material adverse impact on the quality of our business. A continued economic slowdown in California, New York or other markets in which we operate may have any or all of the following consequences, any of which may reduce our net income and adversely affect our financial condition: • loan delinquencies may increase, • problem assets and foreclosures may increase, • the level and duration of deposits may decline, • demand for our products and services may decline, and • collateral for loans may decline in value below the principal amount owed by the borrower. Our allowance for loan losses may not cover actual loan losses. If our actual loan losses exceed the amount we have allocated for estimated probable incurred losses, our business will be adversely affected. We attempt to limit the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans by carefully underwriting our loans, but losses nevertheless occur in the ordinary course of lending operations. We create allowances for estimated loan losses through provisions that are recorded as reductions in income in our accounting records. We base these allowances on estimates of the following: • historical experience with our loans, • evaluation of current economic conditions and other factors, • reviews of the quality, mix and size of the overall loan portfolio, • reviews of delinquencies, and • the quality of the collateral underlying our loans. If our allowance estimates are inadequate, we may incur losses, our financial condition may be materially and adversely affected and we may be required to raise additional capital to enhance our capital position. In 16 Table of Contents addition, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the adequacy of our allowance. These agencies may require us to establish additional allowances based on their judgment of the information available at the time of their examinations. No assurance can be given that we will not sustain loan losses in excess of present or future levels of the allowance for loan losses. We have a high level of loans secured by real estate collateral. A further downturn in the real estate market may seriously impair our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 72% of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by various types of real estate. There has been a general slowdown in the economy and declines in value in the commercial real estate market in Southern California, along with high levels of unemployment. Continued deterioration in the real estate market generally and in commercial real estate values in particular, along with high levels of unemployment, may result in additional loan charge-offs and provisions for loan losses, which may have an adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Changes in interest rates affect our profitability. The interest rate risk inherent in our lending, investing, and deposit taking activities is a significant market risk to us and our business. We derive our income mainly from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the wider the spread, the more net interest income we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can greatly affect our income. In addition, interest rate fluctuations can affect how much money we may be able to lend. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in minimizing the adverse effects of changes in interest rates. If we lose key employees, our business may suffer. There is intense competition for experienced and highly qualified personnel in the Korean American banking industry. In addition, the America Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 places certain restrictions on executive compensation that may impact our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management personnel. Our future success depends on the continued employment of existing senior management personnel. If we lose key employees temporarily or permanently, it may hurt our business. We may be particularly hurt if our key employees became employed by our competitors in the Korean American banking industry. Environmental laws may force us to pay for environmental problems. The cost of cleaning up or paying damages and penalties associated with environmental problems may increase our operating expenses. When a borrower defaults on a loan secured by real property, we often purchase the property in foreclosure or accept a deed to the property surrendered by the borrower. We may also take over the management of commercial properties whose owners have defaulted on loans. We also lease premises where our branches and other facilities are located and where environmental problems may exist. Although we have lending, foreclosure and facilities guidelines that are intended to exclude properties with an unreasonable risk of contamination, hazardous substances may exist on some of the properties that we own, lease, manage or occupy. We may face the risk that environmental laws may force us to clean up the properties at our expense. The cost of cleaning up a property may exceed the value of the property. We may also be liable for pollution generated by a borrower’s operations if we take a role in managing those operations after a default. We may find it difficult or impossible to sell contaminated properties. We are exposed to the risks of natural disasters. A significant portion of our operations is concentrated in Southern California, which is an earthquake-prone region. A major earthquake may result in material loss to us. A significant percentage of our loans are and will be secured by real estate. Many of our borrowers may suffer uninsured property damage, experience interruption of their businesses or lose their jobs after an earthquake. Those borrowers might not be able to repay their loans, and the collateral for such loans may decline significantly in value. Unlike a bank with operations that are more geographically diversified, we are vulnerable to greater losses if an earthquake, fire, flood or other natural catastrophe occurs in Southern California. 17 Table of Contents An increase in non-performing assets would reduce our income and increase our expenses. If the level of non-performing assets increases in the future, it may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Non-performing assets are mainly loans on which the borrowers are not making their required payments. Non-performing assets also include loans that have been restructured to permit the borrower to make payments and real estate that has been acquired through foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure of unpaid loans. To the extent that assets are non-performing, we have less earning assets generating interest income and an increase in credit related expenses, including provisions for loan losses. We may experience adverse effects from acquisitions. We have acquired other banking companies and bank offices in the past and consider additional acquisitions as opportunities arise. If we do not adequately address the financial and operational risks associated with acquisitions of other companies, we may incur material unexpected costs and disruption of our business. Acquisitions that are large in relation to our asset size, such as our recently completed merger with Center Financial, may increase the degree of such risks. Risks involved in acquisitions of other companies include: • the risk of failure adequately to evaluate the asset quality of the acquired company, • difficulty in assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired company, • diversion of management’s attention from other important business activities, • difficulty in maintaining good relations with the loan and deposit customers of the acquired company, • inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and • amortization of expenses related to acquired intangible assets that have finite lives. Liquidity risks may impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans, and other sources may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities may be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that may detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow may also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the banking industry or the general financial services industry as a whole. The level of our problem assets, occurrence of operating losses or a failure to comply with requirements of the agencies which regulate us may result in regulatory actions against us which may adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. The DFI, the FDIC and the FRB each have authority to take actions to require that we comply with applicable regulatory capital requirements, cease engaging in what they perceive to be unsafe or unsound practices or make other changes in our business. Among others, the corrective measures that such regulatory authorities may take include requiring us to enter into informal or formal agreements regarding our operations, the issuance of cease and desist orders to refrain from engaging in unsafe and unsound practices, removal of officers and directors and the assessment of civil monetary penalties. See “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation” for a further description of such regulatory powers. Increased deposit insurance costs may adversely affect our results of operations. Due to the greatly increased rate of bank failures experienced in the current period of financial stress, as well as the extraordinary programs in which the FDIC has been involved to support the banking industry generally, the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund has been substantially reduced and the FDIC has incurred substantially increased operating costs. For these reasons, the FDIC has significantly increased the rates of deposit insurance premiums that it charges 18 Table of Contents insured banks, including BBCN Bank, which has increased our costs of operation. Additional increases in the deposit insurance premium rates of the FDIC or other increases in costs related to deposit insurance may be imposed, which may result in further increases in BBCN Bank’s operating costs. Changes in accounting standards may affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes and their impacts on us can be hard to predict and may result in unexpected and materially adverse impacts on our reported financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to operational risks relating to our technology and information systems. The continued efficacy of our technology and information systems, related operational infrastructure and relationships with third party vendors in our ongoing operations is integral to our performance. Failure of any of these resources, including but not limited to operational or systems failures, interruptions of client service operations and ineffectiveness of or interruption in third party data processing or other vendor support, may cause material disruptions in our business, impairment of customer relations and exposure to liability for our customers, as well as action by bank regulatory authorities. Our business reputation is important and any damage to it may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reputation is very important for our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, and in the communities we serve. Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, our conduct of our business or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on our business. As we expand outside our California markets, we may encounter additional risks that may adversely affect us. Currently, the majority of our offices are located in California, but we also have seven offices in New York and New Jersey. We also have banking offices in Chicago and Seattle. Over time, we may seek to establish offices to serve Korean-American communities in other parts of the United States as well. In the course of these expansion activities, we may encounter significant risks, including unfamiliarity with the characteristics and business dynamics of new markets, increased marketing and administrative expenses and operational difficulties arising from our efforts to attract business in new markets, manage operations in noncontiguous geographic markets, comply with local laws and regulations and effectively and consistently manage our non-California personnel and business. If we are unable to manage these risks, our operations may be adversely affected. Adverse conditions in South Korea may adversely affect our business. A substantial number of our customers have economic and cultural ties to South Korea and, as a result, we are likely to feel the effects of adverse economic and political conditions there. If economic conditions in South Korea deteriorate, we may, among other things, be exposed to economic and transfer risk, and may experience an outflow of deposits by our customers with connections to South Korea. Transfer risk may result when an entity is unable to obtain the foreign exchange needed to meet its obligations or to provide liquidity. This may adversely impact the recoverability of investments in or loans made to such entities. Adverse economic conditions in South Korea may also negatively impact asset values and the profitability and liquidity of our customers who operate in this region. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make loans secured by real property does not ensure that the value of the real property collateral will be sufficient to repay our loans. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made and requires the exercise of a considerable degree of judgment and adherence to professional standards. If the appraisal does not accurately reflect the amount that may be obtained upon sale or foreclosure of the property, whether due to a decline in property value after the date of the original appraisal or defective preparation of the appraisal, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property and as a result, we may suffer losses. 19 Table of Contents Changes in governmental regulation may impair our operations or restrict our growth. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies regulate many aspects of our operations. These areas include: • the capital that we must maintain, • the dividends that we may pay, • the kinds of activities that we may engage in, • the compensation that we may pay, • the kinds and amounts of investments that we can make, • the locations of our offices, • how much interest we can pay on demand deposits, • insurance of deposits and the premiums that we must pay for this insurance, and • how much cash we must set aside as reserves for deposits. The governmental supervision and regulations to which we are subject, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors rather than our stockholders, may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. Within the last several years, Congress and the federal bank regulatory authorities have made significant changes to these statutes and regulations. There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or in their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. BBCN Bank is subject to regulation and examination by the DFI and the FDIC and BBCN Bancorp is subject to the rules and regulations of the FRB. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, BBCN Bank and BBCN Bancorp are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which may materially affect the banking industry. If we fail to comply with federal and state bank regulations, the regulators may limit our activities or growth, fine us or force the bank into receivership. Implementation of the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may increase our operating costs or otherwise have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act includes, among other things: (i) the creation of a Financial Services Oversight Council to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; (ii) the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products that would affect banks and non-bank finance companies; (iii) the establishment of new capital and prudential standards for banks and bank holding companies, including the elimination, with exceptions for banking organizations having assets of less than $10 billion, of the ability to treat trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital; (iv) enhanced regulation of financial markets, including the derivatives, securitization and mortgage origination markets; (v) the elimination of proprietary trading and private equity investment activities by banks; (vi) the elimination of barriers to de novo interstate branching by banks; (vii) permanent establishment of the previously implemented temporary increase of FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000 per insured account; (viii) the authorization of interest-bearing transaction accounts and (ix) changes in the calculation of FDIC deposit insurance assessments and an increase in the minimum designated reserve ratio for the DIF. Certain provisions of the legislation are not immediately effective or are subject to required studies and implementing regulations. Further, community banks with less than $10 billion in assets (less than $15 billion with respect to trust preferred securities) are exempt from certain provisions of the legislation. We cannot predict how this significant new legislation may be interpreted and enforced nor how implementing regulations and supervisory policies may affect us. There can be no assurance that these or future reforms will not significantly increase our compliance or operating costs or otherwise have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile, which may result in substantial losses for our stockholders. The market price of our common stock may be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • issuing new equity securities; • the amount of our common stock outstanding and the trading volume of our stock; • actual or anticipated changes in our future financial performance; • changes in financial performance estimates of us or by securities analysts; • competitive developments, including announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services or acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • the operating and stock performance of our competitors; • changes in interest rates; • changes in key personnel; • changes in economic conditions that affect the Bank’s performance; and • changes in legislation or regulations that affect the Bank. We may raise additional capital, which could have a dilutive effect on the existing holders of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We periodically evaluate opportunities to access capital markets, taking into account our financial condition, regulatory capital ratios, business strategies, anticipated asset growth and other relevant considerations. Among other considerations, we intend to redeem, at an appropriate time prior to February 15, 2014, the Series A Preferred Stock, the Series B Preferred Stock and the warrants we issued to the U.S. Treasury Department. In addition, it is possible that future acquisitions, organic growth or changes in regulatory capital requirements could require us to increase the amount or change the composition of our current capital, including our common equity. For all of these reasons, and subject to market conditions, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other capital securities in public or private transactions. The issuance of additional common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock, including purchasers of common stock in this offering. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive or other rights that would entitle them to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in dilution of the ownership interests of our stockholders. We have suspended declaration and payment of dividends on our common stock. Our ability to declare and pay dividends in the future, as well as the ability of the Bank to make dividend payments to us, will be subject to regulatory, statutory and other restrictions. In March, 2009, we announced the suspension of our prior policy of paying quarterly dividends in order to preserve capital and to provide us with increased flexibility to invest in our business. Until November 2011, we were also subject to special regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends under resolutions adopted by the boards of directors of Nara Bancorp and Nara Bank after consultation with the DFI and the FRB. Our board of directors intends to consider reinstating our prior dividend policy if economic conditions warrant it and subject to other business and strategic considerations. There can be no assurance, however, when or if we will reinstate payment of regular cash dividends. Our ability to pay dividends at that time will be subject to statutory and other limitations applicable to us or to the Bank. Our outstanding preferred stock may diminish the net income per share available dividends to holders of our common stock or on liquidation. The accrual of dividends and the accretion of discount on our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock reduce the net income available to holders of our common stock. Dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock, which accrue at the rate of 5% per annum until February 15, 2014 and 9% per annum thereafter, are cumulative, which means that any dividends 21 Table of Contents not declared or paid will accumulate and be payable when the payment of dividends is resumed. Depending on our financial condition at the time, these dividend requirements may adversely affect our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock. The holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock would also be entitled to receive a liquidation payment of $1,000 per share before any payments of liquidation proceeds may be made to our common stockholders in the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected as a result of future impairment of our intangible assets. At December 31, 2011, we had $90.5 million of goodwill, primarily resulting from our merger with Center Financial Corporation. Future acquisitions could result in increases in the amount of our goodwill or other intangible assets. We assess the carrying value of intangible assets, including goodwill, at least annually in order to determine whether such assets are impaired. In reviewing the carrying value of intangible assets, we look to the market value of our common stock, compared to book value. We further assess the recoverability of such intangible assets by evaluating the fair value of the related business unit. If recoverability is deemed impaired, a write-down of such intangible assets would be required. We may be not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of the Center Merger, including estimated cost savings and synergies, or it may take longer than anticipated to achieve such benefits. The realization of the benefits anticipated as a result of the Center Merger, including cost savings and synergies, will depend in part on the integration of Center Financial’s operations with our operations. There can be no assurance that Center Financial’s operations can be integrated successfully into our operations in a timely fashion, or at all. The dedication of management resources to such integration may divert attention from our day-to-day business and there can be no assurance that there will not be substantial costs associated with the transition process or that there will not be other material adverse effects as a result of these integration efforts. Such effects, including, but not limited to, incurring unexpected costs or delays in connection with such integration, may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 