Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem insignificant 9 Table of Contents may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Competition could adversely impact revenues and profitability. The United States bakery industry is highly competitive. Competition is based on product availability, product quality, price, effective promotions and the ability to target changing consumer preferences. We experience price pressure from time to time as a result of our competitors’ promotional efforts. Increased competition could result in reduced sales, margins, profits and market share. Our ability to execute our business strategy could affect our business. We employ various operating strategies to be one of the nation’s leading producers and marketers of bakery products available to customers through multiple channels of distribution. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or executing one or more of these strategies, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on a few large customers for a significant portion of our sales and the loss of one of our large customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have several large customers that account for a significant portion of our sales. Our top ten customers accounted for 42.0% of our sales during fiscal 2006. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart/Sam’s Club, accounted for 18.9% of our sales during this period. The loss of one of our large customers could adversely affect our results of operations. These customers do not typically enter into long-term contracts and make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand and customer service performance. They may in the future use more of their shelf space, including space currently used for our products, for private label products. If our sales to one or more of these customers are reduced, this reduction may adversely affect our business. Consolidation in the retail and foodservice industries could affect our sales and profitability. As the consolidation trend among our customers continues and our customers, including mass merchandisers, grow larger and become more sophisticated, they may demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs or special packaging from product suppliers. Meeting these demands may adversely affect our margins. If we are not selected by our customers for most of our products or if we fail to effectively respond to their demands, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Our large customers may impose requirements on us that may adversely affect our results of operations. From time to time, our large customers, including Wal-Mart/Sam’s Club, may re-evaluate or refine their business practices and impose new or revised requirements upon their suppliers, including us. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. Compliance with requirements imposed by significant customers may be costly and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. However, if we fail to meet a significant customer’s demands, we could lose that customer’s business, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Increases in costs and/or shortages of raw materials, fuels and utilities could cause costs to increase. Commodities, such as flour, sweeteners, cocoa and eggs, which are used in our bakery products, are subject to price fluctuations. Any substantial increase in the prices of raw materials may have an adverse impact on our profitability. Recent concerns over grain-based fuel sources have caused the commodity markets to become extremely volatile. In addition, we are dependent upon natural gas and propane for firing ovens. The independent distributors and third party shipping companies we use are dependent upon gasoline and diesel as fuel for distribution vehicles. Substantial future increases in prices for, or shortages of, these fuels could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. The company cannot guarantee that it can cover these cost increases through future pricing actions. Additionally, as a result of these pricing actions consumers could move from the purchase of high margin branded products to lower margin store brands. 10 Table of Contents Increases in employee and employee-related costs could have adverse effects on our profitability. Pension, health care and workers’ compensation costs have been increasing and will likely continue to increase. Any substantial increase in pension, health care or workers’ compensation costs may have an adverse impact on our profitability. The company records pension costs and the liabilities related to its benefit plans based on actuarial valuations, which include key assumptions determined by management. Material changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. Future annual amounts could be impacted by various factors, such as changes in the number of plan participants, changes in the discount rate, changes in the expected long-term rate of return, changes in the level of contributions to the plan and other factors. There have been no new participants in the company’s defined benefit plan since December 31, 1998. Effective December 31, 2005, the company froze benefits in its primary defined benefit pension plan. We have risks related to our pension plans, which could impact the company’s liquidity. The company has trusteed, noncontributory defined pension plans covering certain employees maintained under the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, including the performance of our common stock, which comprises approximately 11.7% of the assets (as of December 31, 2006) of our pension plans. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected, the likelihood of our being required to make contributions will increase. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can impact our contribution requirements. In a low-interest-rate environment, the likelihood of required contributions in the future increases. A disruption in the operation of our direct store distribution system could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We believe that our DSD distribution system is a significant competitive advantage for us. A material negative change in our relations with the independent distributors, an adverse ruling by regulatory or governmental bodies regarding our independent distributorship program or an adverse judgment against the company for actions taken by the independent distributors could materially affect our results of operation and financial condition. Compensation costs associated with our stock appreciation rights plan could have adverse effects on our results of operations. The company has previously awarded stock appreciation rights to key employees and non-employee directors throughout the company. Generally accepted accounting principles require the company to record compensation expense for these rights based on changes in the company’s stock price between the grant date and an estimated fair value of the rights at the balance sheet date that is presented using an option pricing model. The company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model. If the price of our common stock increases more than we project during the measurement period, the company may have to recognize greater than expected compensation expense, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We rely on the value of our brands, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing the awareness of our brands are increasing, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. We rely on the success of our well-recognized brand names. We intend to maintain our strong brand recognition by continuing to devote resources to advertising, marketing and other brand building efforts. If we are not able to successfully maintain our brand recognition, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Inability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences may result in decreased demand for products, which could have an adverse impact on our future growth and operating results. Our success depends in part on our ability to respond to current market trends and to anticipate the tastes and dietary habits of consumers. Consumer preferences change, and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which could in turn cause our operating results to suffer. Future product recalls or safety concerns could adversely impact our results of operations. We may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged. We also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. A product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. We also could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products. Government regulation could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. As a producer and marketer of food items, we are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local government entities and agencies with respect to production processes, product quality, packaging, labeling, storage and distribution. Failure to comply with, or violations of, the regulatory requirements of one or more of these agencies can result in a variety of sanctions, including monetary fines or compulsory withdrawal of products from store shelves. In addition, future regulation by these agencies, the military action in Iraq and the continuing threat of terrorist attacks, could increase our commodity and service costs and have material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any business disruption due to political instability, armed hostilities, incidents of terrorism or natural disasters could adversely impact our financial performance. If terrorist activity, armed conflict, political instability or natural disasters occur in the U.S. or other locations, such events may disrupt manufacturing, labor and other aspects of our business. In the event of such incidents, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and Georgia law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, shareholder rights plan and Georgia law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. This could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if a substantial number or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions in our organizational documents that could delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: • a classified board of directors; • the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; • specified requirements for calling special meetings of shareholders; and • the ability of the board of directors to consider the interests of various constituencies, including our employees, clients and creditors and the local community. Our articles of incorporation also permit the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock with such designations, powers, preferences and rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. In addition, we have in place a shareholders’ rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon substantial purchases of our common stock by a third party that are not approved by the board of directors. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None Executive Offices The address and telephone number of our principal executive offices are 1919 Flowers Circle, Thomasville, Georgia 31757, (229) 226-9110. Executive Officers of Flowers Foods The following table sets forth certain information regarding the persons who currently serve as the executive officers of Flowers Foods. Our Board of Directors elects all executive officers for one-year terms with the exception of the positions of President and Chief Operating Officer — Flowers Foods Bakeries Group and President and Chief Operating Officer — Flowers Foods Specialty Group, which are appointed by the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer to hold office until they resign or are removed. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Name, Age and Office Business Experience George E. Deese Age 61 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Deese has been Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Flowers Foods since January 2006. Mr. Deese previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Flowers Foods from January 2004 to January 2006. Prior to that he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Foods from May 2002 until January 2004. Mr. Deese also served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Bakeries from January 1997 until May 2002, President and Chief Operating Officer, Baked Products Group of Flowers Industries from 1983 to January 1997, Regional Vice President, Baked Products Group of Flowers Industries from 1981 to 1983 and President of Atlanta Baking Company from 1980 to 1981. Jimmy M. Woodward Age 46 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Woodward has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Flowers Foods since September 2002. Mr. Woodward previously served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from November 2000 until September 2002. Prior to that, he served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Flowers Industries from March 2000 to March 2001. Mr. Woodward also served as Treasurer and Chief Accounting Officer of Flowers Industries from October 1997 to March 2000 and Assistant Treasurer of Flowers Industries for more than five years prior to that time. Gene D. Lord Age 59 President and Chief Operating Officer — Flowers Foods Bakeries Group Mr. Lord has been President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Foods Bakeries Group since July 2002. Mr. Lord previously served as a Regional Vice President of Flowers Bakeries from January 1997 until July 2002. Prior to that, he served as Regional Vice President, Baked Products Group of Flowers Industries from May 1987 until January 1997 and as President of Atlanta Baking Company from February 1981 until May 1987. Prior to that time, Mr. Lord served in various sales positions at Flowers Bakeries. Allen L. Shiver Age 51 President and Chief Operating Officer — Flowers Foods Specialty Group Mr. Shiver has been President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Foods Specialty Group since April 2003. Mr. Shiver previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Flowers Snack from July 2002 until April 2003. Prior to that Mr. Shiver served as Executive Vice President of Flowers Bakeries from 1998 until 2002, as a Regional Vice President of Flowers Bakeries in 1998 and as President of Flowers Baking Company of Villa Rica from 1995 until 1998. Prior to that time, Mr. Shiver served in various sales and marketing positions at Flowers Bakeries. 13 Table of Contents Stephen R. Avera Age 50 Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel Mr. Avera has been Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of Flowers Foods since September 2004. Mr. Avera previously served as Secretary and General Counsel from February 2002 until September 2004. He also served as Vice President and General Counsel of Flowers Bakeries from July 1998 to February 2002. Mr. Avera also previously served as an associate and assistant general counsel of Flowers Industries from February 1986 to July 1998. Michael A. Beaty Age 56 Senior Vice President-Supply Chain Mr. Beaty has been Senior Vice President-Supply Chain of Flowers Foods since September 2002. Mr. Beaty previously served as Senior Vice President of Bakery Operations of Flowers Bakeries from September 1994 until September 2002. He also served as Vice President of Manufacturing of Flowers Bakeries from February 1987 until September 1994. Prior to that time, Mr. Beaty served in management positions at various Flowers Bakeries operations, including Vice President of Manufacturing, Executive Vice President and President of various Flowers operations from 1974 until 1987. Marta Jones Turner Age 53 Senior Vice President of Corporate Relations Ms. Turner has been Senior Vice President of Corporate Relations of Flowers Foods since July 2004. Ms. Turner previously served as Vice President of Communications and Investor Relations from November 2000 until July 2004. She also served as Vice President of Communications and Investor Relations at Flowers Industries from January 2000 to March 2001. She also served as Vice President of Public Affairs of Flowers Industries from September 1997 until January 2000 and Director of Public Relations of Flowers Industries from 1985 until 1997. 