Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report and in our other public filings before making any investment decisions regarding our stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock would likely decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business In June 2006 we suspended our 28-day clinical trial of ANA975 in HCV infected patients, and we do not currently know when or if we will be able to resume dosing. If dosing is substantially delayed or if clinical development of ANA975 is terminated, our stock price could decline significantly. In June 2006, we suspended dosing in our 28-day clinical trial of ANA975 in HCV infected patients due to then newly obtained information from pre-clinical 13-week animal toxicology studies. Subsequently, the FDA put our ANA975 IND on full clinical hold. In November 2006 we initiated a new 13 week pre-clinical toxicology study in animals, however, we cannot currently predict when or if we will be able to resume dosing ANA975 in humans. There is no guarantee that ANA975 clinical trials will be resumed at all. Based on existing and future toxicology data, we may not be able to identify a dose that we expect to provide therapeutic benefit without causing unacceptable adverse events, in which case we would likely terminate the ANA975 development program. A delay in resuming dosing or the termination of the clinical development of ANA975 could cause our stock price to decline significantly. The IND covering the ANA975 development plan in the U.S. is currently on full clinical hold and we will need to obtain agreement with the FDA and regulatory authorities in Europe prior to resuming clinical trials. In June 2006, we voluntarily suspended dosing in our 28-day Phase Ib clinical trial of ANA975 in HCV-infected patients and the FDA subsequently notified us that it was placing the IND covering ANA975 on full clinical hold. We will need to gain agreement with the FDA on the significance of the toxicological findings and the future clinical trial design prior to resuming clinical trials with ANA975. If we are unable to show a data package that the FDA finds acceptable to support future clinical trials, the FDA may decline to lift the clinical hold, in which case we will not be permitted to conduct clinical trials of ANA975 in the U.S. or ultimately seek or obtain U.S. regulatory approval for commercialization for ANA975. Similarly, we will need to gain agreement from the applicable regulatory authorities in Europe prior to resuming dosing of ANA975 in Europe. We currently depend on one collaboration partner, Novartis, for substantially all our revenues and for commercialization of one of our lead product candidates, and we may depend on Novartis for commercialization of other product candidates. If our development, license and commercialization agreement with Novartis terminates, our business will be seriously harmed. We have licensed our product candidate ANA975 under a development, license and commercialization agreement with Novartis, dated June 1, 2005, which we refer to as the collaboration agreement. We may derive substantially all of our near-term revenues from Novartis. Novartis may terminate the collaboration agreement in any country or with respect to any product or product candidate licensed under the collaboration agreement for any reason. If the collaboration agreement is terminated in whole or in part and we are unable to enter similar arrangements with other collaborators, our business would be materially and adversely affected. The success of ANA975 depends heavily on our collaboration with Novartis. If Novartis is unwilling to further develop or commercialize ANA975, or experiences significant delays in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. As a result of the joint development aspect of our collaboration agreement with Novartis, the future success of our TLR-7 HCV and HBV programs and the continued funding from Novartis will depend in large part on our ability to maintain our relationship with Novartis with respect to ANA975 or any other product candidate licensed under the collaboration agreement. We do not have a significant history of working together with Novartis and cannot predict the success of the collaboration. We cannot guarantee that Novartis will not reduce or curtail its efforts to develop ANA975 with us because of changes in its research and development budget, its internal development priorities, its perceptions of the viability of the ANA975 program, the success or failure of its other product candidates or other factors affecting its business or operations. For example, Novartis recently in-licensed rights to Albuferon from Human Genome Sciences and there is no guarantee that Novartis will not re-prioritize its HCV development efforts in favor of Albuferon at the expense of ANA975. Furthermore, prior to resuming clinical trials with ANA975, we will need to gain agreement with Novartis on the impact that the recent 13 week toxicological observations will have on the future development of ANA975 and 18 Table of Contents will need to agree to any necessary modifications to the pre-clinical and clinical development plan for ANA975. Although we have initiated a new 13 week pre-clinical animal toxicology study with ANA975, there is no guarantee that we will reach agreement with Novartis on the future development of ANA975. If we are not able to maintain a positive relationship with Novartis with respect to ANA975, we may not be able to effectively develop or commercialize products based on ANA975, in which case our TLR-7 based development and commercialization efforts could be significantly impaired. If we materially breach this collaboration agreement and are unable within an agreed time period to cure such breach, the collaboration agreement may be terminated by Novartis and we may be required to grant Novartis an exclusive license to develop, manufacture and/or sell such products. Any loss of Novartis as a collaborator in the development or commercialization of ANA975, dispute over terms of, or decisions regarding the collaboration or other adverse developments in our relationship with Novartis would materially harm our business and might accelerate our need for additional capital. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the development and potential commercialization of ANA380 for HBV. In April 2004, we entered into an agreement with LGLS for the joint development and potential commercialization of ANA380. Under the terms of the agreement, we and LGLS are jointly conducting and equally funding the global clinical development of ANA380 for HBV and LGLS has granted to us an exclusive license to commercialize ANA380 as a therapy for chronic HBV in North America, Europe, Japan and all other countries in the world other than China, Korea, India and countries in Southeast Asia. As a result of the joint development aspect of our agreement with LGLS, the future success of our HBV programs will depend in part on our ability to maintain our relationship with LGLS with respect to ANA380. We cannot guarantee that LGLS will not reduce or curtail its efforts to develop ANA380 with us because of changes in its research and development budget, its development priorities or other factors affecting its business or operations. Additionally, if we are not able to maintain a positive relationship with LGLS with respect to ANA380, we may not be able to effectively develop or commercialize products based on ANA380, in which case our HBV development and potential commercialization efforts could be significantly impaired and our ability to generate anticipated product revenues may suffer. Furthermore, given the increased number of currently available treatments for HBV as well as those in development, we and LGLS are continuing to evaluate the market opportunity for ANA380. As part of this evaluation, we are assessing the overall projected costs of our ANA380 program and the potential market opportunity for ANA380 if it is ultimately commercialized as a treatment for HBV and are assessing whether collaborating with a regional or global pharmaceutical partner may be the most cost-effective way to pursue Phase III trials and commercialization. At this time, we are in discussions with LGLS regarding next steps for the program and the global development plan and, pending agreement with LGLS regarding next steps for the program, we are preparing to initiate a Phase IIb dose selection trial with ANA380 in 2007. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to reach agreement with LGLS on the global development plan, initiate the Phase IIb dose selection trial, or realize the anticipated benefits of the development and potential commercialization of ANA380. If we are unable to do so, then our business could be materially and adversely affected and our stock price could decline significantly. We are continuing to evaluate the animal toxicology observations that led to the suspension of dosing in our ANA975 HCV clinical trial. To the extent that the toxicology observations are mechanism related and if we are unable to identify levels of immune stimulation that provide sufficient therapeutic benefit with an acceptable safety profile, our ANA773 program for cancer and our other earlier stage TLR7 programs could be negatively impacted, causing our stock price to decline. ANA975 is an oral prodrug of isatoribine, a TLR-7 agonist. We are currently evaluating the toxicology observations from the 13-week animal studies that led to the suspension of dosing in our ANA975 HCV clinical trial to determine their potential impact, if any, on our other TLR-7 programs, including ANA773 and our earlier stage TLR-7 programs. To the extent that the toxicology observations are mechanism related, rather than compound specific, we will need to determine whether the level of immune stimulation induced by TLR-7 agonists can be modulated to achieve a potential therapeutic benefit with an acceptable safety profile. If we are unable to modulate the immunomodulatory effect with a dose that provides therapeutic benefit without causing unacceptable adverse events, then the future development of our other TLR-7 programs may be terminated, which would materially and adversely affect our business and cause our stock price to decline significantly. The FDA may not allow us to proceed with dosing humans with ANA773 unless and until the outcome of our toxicology studies with ANA975 are more fully understood. Any delay to or cancellation of our ANA773 program could adversely affect our business and cause our stock price to decline. We currently plan to file an IND with the FDA for ANA773 during the second half of 2007 and commence clinical trials in cancer patients pending the IND acceptance. Because ANA773 has the same mechanism of action as ANA975, it is possible that the FDA will not allow us to dose ANA773 in humans until the toxicological profile of ANA975 is more clearly understood. If results from the ongoing toxicology study with ANA975 are unfavorable or inconclusive, it is possible that the FDA will not allow us to go forward with our ANA773 clinical trials. Any such decision would negatively impact our drug development programs and could materially and adversely affect our business, causing our stock price to decline. 19 Table of Contents We will need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or commercialization efforts. Our December 31, 2006 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance was $82 million. We believe that this balance and the development expense funding by Novartis for ANA975 will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for at least the next fiscal year. However, we may need or choose to seek additional funding within this period of time. In addition, we will need to raise additional capital at least within the next few years to, among other things: • fund our research and development programs; • fund our share of the further clinical development and regulatory review and approval of ANA975 and ANA380; • establish and maintain manufacturing, sales and marketing operations; • commercialize our product candidates, if any, that receive regulatory approval; and • acquire rights to products or product candidates, technologies or businesses. Our future funding requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of many factors, including: • the progress of our clinical trials; • the progress of our research activities; • the number and scope of our research programs; • the progress of our preclinical development activities; • our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations; • the costs involved in enforcing or defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the pace and timing of development activities conducted under joint development arrangements with our collaborators; • the cost and timing of regulatory approvals; • the costs of establishing or expanding manufacturing, sales and distribution capabilities; • the costs related to development and manufacture of pre-clinical, clinical and validation lots for regulatory and commercialization of drug supply; • the success of the commercialization of ANA380, ANA975 and additional products; and • the extent to which we acquire or invest in other products technologies and businesses. We do not anticipate that we will generate significant continuing revenues for at least several years, if ever. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, project financing and grant funding, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. 20 Table of Contents Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, project financings or corporate collaborations and licensing arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem capital stocks or make investments. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. For example, we might be forced to relinquish all or a portion of our sales and marketing rights with respect to potential products or license intellectual property that enables licensees to develop competing products. If we fail to establish new collaborations, we may not generate sufficient revenue to attain profitability. Our near and long-term viability will depend in part on our ability to successfully establish new strategic collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to independently fully develop and commercialize other potential products that may be based upon our technologies, we will either need to develop or acquire these resources on our own, which will require substantial funding, time and effort, or will need to enter into additional collaborative agreements to assist in the development and commercialization of some of these potential products. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or based on existing collaborations. If we fail to establish a sufficient number of additional collaborations on acceptable terms, we may not generate sufficient revenue. Even if we successfully establish new collaborations, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of any product candidates or the generation of sales or royalty revenue. We are at an early stage of development, and we may never attain product sales. Our existing organizational structure was formed in May 2000. Since then, most of our resources have been dedicated to the development of our proprietary drug discovery technologies, research and development and preclinical and early stage clinical testing of compounds. Any compounds discovered or in-licensed by us will require extensive and costly development, preclinical testing and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval for commercial sales. Our most advanced product candidates, ANA380 and ANA975 and any other compounds we discover or in-license, may never be approved for commercial sales. The time required to attain product sales and profitability is lengthy and highly uncertain, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain product sales. We expect our net operating losses to continue for at least several years, and we are unable to predict the extent of future losses and when we will become profitable, if ever. We have incurred net operating losses since our incorporation in 1992, and through December 31, 2006 we have an accumulated deficit of $214.5 million. Our operating losses are attributable in large part to the significant research and development costs required to identify and validate potential product candidates and conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials. To date, we have generated limited revenues, consisting of one-time or limited payments associated with our collaborations or grants, and we do not anticipate generating product revenues for at least several years, if ever. We expect to increase our operating expenses over at least the next several years as we plan to fund our share of the development costs of our product candidates, further our research and development activities and potentially acquire or license new technologies and product candidates. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our research and product development efforts, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on an ongoing basis. The technologies on which we rely are unproven and may not result in the discovery or development of commercially viable products. Our proprietary technologies and methods of identifying, prioritizing and screening molecular targets represent unproven approaches to the identification of drug leads that may possess therapeutic potential. Much of our research focuses on the biology of a specific receptor, or protein, named Toll-Like Receptor-7, or TLR-7, and on structure-based drug design. However, structure-based 21 Table of Contents drug design is difficult, time-consuming and expensive. Additionally, the interaction between isatoribine and TLR-7 represents a new mechanism of action for the treatment of HCV and HBV, and there is no guarantee that an acceptable balance between therapeutic benefit and risk will be achieved with ANA975 in HCV- or HBV-infected patients. For example, in June 2006 we suspended dosing in our ANA975 clinical trials due to information from 13 week toxicology studies in animals while we conduct additional pre-clinical studies and evaluate whether there is an acceptable balance between therapeutic benefit and risk. Likewise, the use of a TLR-7 agonist represents a new mechanism of action for the treatment of cancer, and there is no guarantee that an acceptable balance between therapeutic benefit and risk will be achieved with ANA773 in cancer patients. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that TLR biology will result in an acceptable balance between therapeutic benefit and risk in any other therapeutic area, such as asthma, allergies or vaccine adjuvants. The process of successfully discovering product candidates is expensive, time-consuming and unpredictable, and the historical rate of failure for drug candidates is extremely high. Research programs to identify product candidates require a substantial amount of our technical, financial and human resources even if no product candidates are identified. If we are unable to identify new product candidates using our proprietary drug discovery technologies or capabilities, we may not be able to establish or maintain a clinical development pipeline or generate product revenue. Novartis has the right under certain circumstances to market and sell products that compete with the product candidates and products that we license to it, and any competition by Novartis could have a material adverse effect on our business. Novartis may under certain circumstances market, sell, promote or license, competitive products. Novartis has significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and is better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize products. In addition, Novartis has more extensive experience in preclinical studies and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. Moreover, any direct or indirect competition with Novartis with respect to products that we have licensed to it could result in confusion in the market. In the event that Novartis competes with us, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on the commercial success of ANA975 or another oral prodrug of isatoribine or other TLR-7 agonists and we cannot be certain that ANA975 or any other oral prodrug of isatoribine or other TLR-7 agonists will be commercialized. Most of our work to date with ANA975 has been limited to pre-clinical studies and early stage clinical trials in a small number of healthy volunteers. We have only recently begun clinical trials of ANA975 in HCV-infected patients and this trial is currently suspended and on clinical hold pending evaluation of toxicological findings and further discussion with Novartis and regulatory authorities. We will have to spend considerable additional time, money and effort before seeking regulatory approval to market any product candidates, including ANA975, another oral prodrug of isatoribine or another TLR-7 agonist. Our business prospects depend significantly on our ability to successfully complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize ANA975, another oral prodrug of isatoribine or another TLR-7 agonist. If we fail to commercialize ANA975, another oral prodrug of isatoribine or another TLR-7 agonist, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitability, and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decrease. Because the results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials of isatoribine, ANA975 and ANA380 are not necessarily predictive of future results, we can provide no assurances that ANA975 or ANA380 will have favorable results in later clinical trials, or receive regulatory approval. Positive results from preclinical studies or early clinical trials should not be relied upon as evidence that later or larger-scale clinical trials will succeed. Initial clinical trials of isatoribine, ANA975 and ANA380 have been conducted only in small numbers of patients that may not fully represent the diversity present in larger populations infected with HCV or HBV. The limited results we have obtained may not predict results from studies in larger numbers of patients drawn from more diverse populations and also may not predict the ability of isatoribine to achieve a sustained virologic response or the ability of ANA380 to provide a long-term therapeutic benefit. These initial trials have not been designed to assess the long-term therapeutic utility of isatoribine, ANA975 or ANA380. We will be required to demonstrate through larger-scale clinical trials that ANA975 and ANA380 are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. Furthermore, if concurrent toxicology studies have unexpected results, the clinical development of the compound at issue could be suspended, delayed and/or terminated. If ANA975, ANA380, or any other product candidate, fails to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in any clinical trial or shows unexpected findings in concurrent toxicology studies, we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of that product candidate. If we delay or abandon our development efforts related to ANA975 or ANA380, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable, and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decrease significantly. 22 Table of Contents We will need to file an additional IND application to conduct trials of ANA975 for HBV in the U.S. and will need to continue our dialogue with the FDA as we and/or Novartis conduct additional trials of ANA975 in the U.S. for either HCV or HBV. Even if the FDA allows us to resume dosing with ANA975 in HCV infected patients, we will still need to file an additional IND application before commencing clinical trials for the HBV indication in the U.S. If we are unable to obtain FDA acceptance of an IND application for ANA975 for HBV, we will not be permitted to conduct clinical trials of ANA975 for HBV in the U.S. or ultimately seek or obtain U.S. regulatory approval for commercialization for this indication. In addition, if we and/or Novartis conduct further trials of ANA975 for HCV, we and/or Novartis will need to continue the dialogue with the FDA to ensure that the FDA concurs with our proposed trial design. Conducting any such dialogue could potentially result in delays in the commencement of future clinical trials. As a result, any delay in either an IND becoming effective for the study of ANA975 as an HBV therapy or the commencement of further clinical trials of ANA975 could delay the further development of our lead product candidate and potential commercialization, adversely affect our collaborative relationship with Novartis and delay our ability to generate product sales. Delays in the commencement of clinical testing of our current and potential product candidates could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenues. Our potential drug products and our collaborators’ potential drug products will require preclinical testing and extensive clinical trials prior to submission of any regulatory application for commercial sales. We commenced clinical trials of isatoribine in late 2002, and in February 2004 we commenced clinical trials of ANA971 and our joint development program with LGLS for ANA380. We commenced clinical trials of ANA975 in early 2005. As a result, we have very limited experience conducting clinical trials. In part because of this limited experience, we cannot be certain that planned clinical trials will begin or be completed on time, if at all. Delays in the commencement of clinical testing could significantly increase our product development costs and delay product commercialization. In addition, many of the factors that may cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: • demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • reaching an agreement on acceptable terms with our collaborators on all aspects of the clinical trial, including the contract research organizations and the trial sites; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and trial sites; • manufacturing sufficient quantities or producing drug meeting our quality standards of a product candidate; • obtaining approval of an IND application or proposed trial design from the FDA; and • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. In addition, the commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size and nature of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Furthermore, due to the June 2006 suspension of our Phase Ib ANA975 clinical trial and subsequent IND clinical hold, we may experience difficulty recruiting and enrolling patients in future clinical trials of ANA975. 23 Table of Contents Delays in the completion of, or the termination of, clinical testing of our current and potential product candidates could result in increased costs to us and delay or prevent us from generating revenues. Once a clinical trial has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated by us, our collaborators, the FDA, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • ongoing discussions with the FDA or other regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • failure to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; • lower than anticipated enrollment or retention rate of patients in clinical trials; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • lack of adequate funding to continue clinical trials; • negative results of clinical trials; • negative or potentially problematic results of ongoing and concurrent pre-clinical toxicology studies; • requests by the FDA for supplemental information on, or clarification of, the results of clinical trials conducted in other countries; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of drug candidates or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; or • serious adverse events or other undesirable drug-related side effects experienced by participants. Many of the factors that may lead to a delay, suspension or termination of clinical testing of a current or potential product candidate may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a current or potential product candidate. If we experience delays in the completion of, or termination of, clinical testing, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates may be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. The success of the clinical development program of ANA380 will depend, at least in part, on our or our collaborators’ ability to maintain a positive working relationship with the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and the failure to do so may harm or delay our ability to commercialize ANA380 in the U.S. or other countries. Although a U.S. IND covering ANA380 has been filed with the FDA, to date no clinical trials of ANA380 have been conducted in the United States. Pending agreement by LGLS, we are planning to commence a multi-site clinical Phase II dose selection trial with ANA380 at a number of sites, including in the United States. Although we have previously discussed our clinical plans for ANA380 with the FDA, it is possible that the FDA may subject the clinical trial design for ANA380 to additional scrutiny and we may incur additional costs and delays responding to potential future FDA requests for supplemental information or clarification. Any delay imposed by the FDA regarding conducting clinical trials of ANA380 in the U.S. could delay the further development of ANA380 and its potential commercialization and delay our ability to generate product sales. In addition, due to the structure of our joint development program with LGLS for the clinical development of ANA380, we do not have complete control over the design of the clinical trials of ANA380 and will be affected, at least in part, by decisions made by LGLS with respect to clinical trial structure and communications with regulatory authorities. If we pursue the development of ANA380 in the U.S., we will need to maintain open communication channels with regulatory authorities, including the FDA. Furthermore, if the FDA does not agree with our proposed clinical development plan, our clinical development plan in the U.S. and other countries may be delayed. A delay in the clinical development of ANA380 may harm the value of the program, decrease our ability to enter into a licensing arrangement with a collaborator around ANA380, and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. 24 Table of Contents If our efforts to discover new products or product candidates and to obtain rights to new products or product candidates from third parties do not yield product candidates for clinical development or are not otherwise successful, we may not generate product revenues or achieve profitability. Our long-term ability to earn product revenue depends on our ability to identify, through internal research programs, potential product candidates that may be developed into new pharmaceutical products and/or obtain new products or product candidates through licenses from third parties. If our internal research programs to discover and develop small-molecule therapeutics for the treatment of infectious diseases and for other disease areas do not generate sufficient product candidates, we will need to obtain rights to new products or product candidates from third parties. We may be unable to obtain suitable product candidates or products from third parties for a number of reasons, including: • we may be unable to purchase or license products or product candidates on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return from resulting products; • competitors may be unwilling to assign or license product or product candidate rights to us; or • we may be unable to identify suitable products or product candidates. If we are unable to obtain rights to new products or product candidates from third parties, our ability to generate product revenues and achieve profitability may suffer. Because we acquired isatoribine from Valeant Pharmaceuticals International (formerly known as ICN Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) any dispute with Valeant Pharmaceuticals International may adversely affect our ability to commercialize isatoribine or prodrugs of isatoribine. In March 2000, we acquired the exclusive worldwide rights to isatoribine and five other compounds from Valeant Pharmaceuticals International (formerly known as ICN Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), or Valeant, as part of an agreement with Valeant and Devron R. Averett, Ph.D. If there is any dispute between Valeant and us regarding our rights under the agreement, our ability to develop and market isatoribine or any other compound licensed from Valeant may be adversely affected. In the past we have been involved in disputes with Valeant regarding patent prosecution matters related to the licensed compounds and entered into a new agreement with Valeant in December 2002 that superseded the original license agreement and resolved these disputes. Valeant may develop technologies and products similar to the drugs we may derive from these compounds, which do not infringe the patents acquired by us. If we are not able to resolve any future license disputes that may arise or obtain adequate patent protection, our ability to develop isatoribine or the other relevant compounds may be compromised, and we may not be able to prevent competitors, including Valeant, from making, using and selling competing products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Even if we successfully complete clinical trials of ANA975, ANA380 or any future product candidate, there are no assurances that we will be able to submit, or obtain FDA approval of, a new drug application. There can be no assurance that if our clinical trials of ANA975, ANA380 or any other potential product candidate are successfully completed, we will be able to submit a new drug application, or NDA, to the FDA or that any NDA we submit will be approved by the FDA in a timely manner, if at all. If we are unable to submit a NDA with respect to ANA975, ANA380 or any future product candidate, or if any NDA we submit is not approved by the FDA, we will be unable to commercialize that product in the U.S. The FDA can and does reject NDAs and may require additional clinical trials, even when drug candidates performed well or achieved favorable results in large-scale Phase III clinical trials. If we fail to commercialize ANA975, ANA380 or any future product candidate in clinical trials, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitability, and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decrease. 25 Table of Contents If we successfully develop products but those products do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be profitable. Even if ANA975, ANA380 or any future product candidates are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; • availability of alternative treatments; • pricing and cost effectiveness; • effectiveness of our or our collaborators’ sales and marketing strategy; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. If ANA975 or any future product candidate that we discover and develop for the treatment of HCV does not provide a treatment regimen that is more beneficial than the current standard of care or otherwise provides patient benefit, that product likely will not be accepted favorably by the market. Similarly, if ANA380 does not provide a treatment regime that is more beneficial than any current or proposed therapy for the treatment of HBV, that product will likewise not be accepted favorably by the market. If any products we or our collaborations may develop do not achieve market acceptance, then we will not generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. In addition, even if our products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if: • new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our products, are more cost effective or render our products obsolete; or • complications, such as viral resistance, arise with respect to use of our products. If we fail to maintain our existing and future collaborations, we may not generate sufficient revenue to attain profitability. Our future success will also depend in part on our ability to maintain our existing collaborations and any future collaborations we may establish. Our existing collaborators and future collaborators may decide to reduce or curtail their collaborations with us because of changes in their research and development budgets or other factors affecting their business or operations. Our present collaborative arrangements and any future collaboration opportunities could be harmed if: • we or our collaborators do not achieve our respective objectives under our collaboration agreements; • we or our collaborators encounter development hurdles that prevent or delay further development of our product candidates; • we are unable to obtain patent protection for the product candidates or proprietary technologies we discover in our collaborations; • we are unable to properly manage multiple simultaneous product discovery and development collaborations; • our present or potential collaborators are less willing to expend their resources on our programs due to their focus on other programs or as a result of general market conditions; • our collaborators become competitors of ours or enter into agreements with our competitors; 26 Table of Contents • we or our collaborators encounter regulatory hurdles that prevent commercialization of our product candidates; • we develop products and processes or enter into additional collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our other collaborators; • consolidation in our target markets or the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industry limits the number of potential collaborators; • the rights granted under our collaboration agreements prove insufficient to adequately develop and commercialize our products and product candidates; • a collaborator breaches, terminates or fails to renew a collaboration with us; or • we are unable to negotiate additional collaboration agreements on terms satisfactory to us. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to develop or commercialize products or generate sufficient revenue to support our operations and attain and maintain profitability. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other collaborative arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold any products that we may develop. We are dependent on collaborators allocating adequate resources to our collaborations, and actions taken by collaborators could prevent us from commercializing products and earning milestone and other contingent payments, royalties or other revenue. Much of the potential revenue from our existing and future collaborations will consist of contingent payments, such as payments for achieving development milestones and royalties payable on sales of drugs developed using our technologies or capabilities. The milestone and royalty revenues that we may receive under these collaborations will depend upon our collaborator’s ability to successfully develop, introduce, market and sell new products. In addition, our existing collaborators may decide to enter into arrangements with third parties to commercialize products developed under our existing or future collaborations using our technologies or capabilities, which could reduce the milestone and royalty revenue that we may receive, if any. In many cases we will not be involved in these processes and accordingly will depend entirely on our collaborators. Our collaboration partners may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products using our products or technologies because they: • decide not to devote the necessary resources due to challenges or delays in pre-clinical or clinical development; • decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints, such as limited personnel with the requisite scientific expertise, limited cash resources or specialized equipment limitations, or other drug development priorities that our collaboration partners believe may have a higher likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval or may potentially generate a greater return on investment; • do not have sufficient resources necessary to carry the product candidate through clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization; • are unable to allocate sufficient resources due to factors affecting their businesses or operations or as a result of general market conditions; • decide to pursue a competitive potential product developed outside of the collaboration; • cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals; or • are otherwise subject to adverse events affecting their business. If our collaboration partners fail to develop or effectively commercialize product candidates or products for any of these reasons or for any other reason, we may not be able to replace the collaboration partner with another partner to develop and commercialize a product candidate or product under the terms of the collaboration or because we are unable to obtain a license from such collaboration partner on terms acceptable to us. 27 Table of Contents A number of our collaboration agreements have been directed toward the discovery and development of drug candidates. Under these collaboration agreements, we generally would not earn significant milestone payments unless and until our collaborators have advanced product candidates into clinical testing, which may not occur for many years, if ever. In addition, a collaborator may disagree as to whether a particular milestone has been achieved. Consequently, we cannot guarantee that milestone payments will be received or that commercialized drugs will be developed on which royalties will be payable to us. If we are unable to generate significant milestone and royalty revenues from our collaborations, we may never attain profitability. If any conflicts arise between us and any of our collaborators, our reputation, revenues and cash position could be significantly harmed. Conflicts may arise between our collaborators and us, such as conflicts concerning the conduct of research, the achievement of milestones or the ownership or protection of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. In addition, in the past we have been involved in disputes with Valeant Pharmaceuticals International (formerly ICN Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) regarding the license of certain compounds, which resulted in us entering into a new agreement with Valeant in December 2002 that superseded the original March 2000 license agreement between us and Valeant and resolved the disputes. Any such disagreement between us and a collaborator could result in one or more of the following, each of which could harm our reputation, result in a loss of revenues and a reduction in our cash position, and cause a decline in our stock price: • unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to pay us research funding, milestone payments or royalties we believe are due to us under our collaboration agreement; • uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights arising from our collaborative activities, which could result in litigation and prevent us from entering into additional collaborations; • unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities, or to permit public disclosure of the results of those activities; • slowing or cessation of a collaborator’s development or commercialization efforts with respect to our products; or • termination or non-renewal of the collaboration. In addition, certain of our current or future collaborators may have the right to terminate the collaboration agreement on short notice. Accordingly, in the event of any conflict between the parties, our collaborators may elect to terminate the collaboration prior to completion of its original term. If a collaboration is terminated prematurely, we would not realize the anticipated benefits of the collaboration, our reputation in the industry and in the investment community may be harmed and our stock price may decline. In addition, in each of our collaborations, we generally have agreed not to conduct independently, or with any third party, activities directly competitive with the subject matter of our collaborations. Our collaborations may have the effect of limiting the areas of research, development and/or commercialization that we may pursue, either alone or with others. Under certain circumstances, however, our collaborators, may research, develop, and/or commercialize, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the products or potential products that are the subject of these collaborations. We depend on outside parties to conduct our clinical trials, which may result in costs and delays that prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or successfully commercializing product candidates. Although we have designed and managed our preclinical studies and clinical trials relating to isatoribine, ANA971 and ANA975 to date, we engaged clinical investigators and medical institutions to enroll patients in these clinical trials and contract research organizations to perform data collection and analysis and other aspects of our preclinical studies and clinical trials. As a result, we depend on these clinical investigators, medical institutions and contract research organizations to properly perform the studies and trials. If these parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. We may not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without undue delays or excessive expenditures. If there are delays in testing or regulatory approvals as a result of the failure to perform by third-parties, our drug discovery and development costs will increase and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. In addition, we may not be able to maintain any of these existing relationships, or establish new ones on acceptable terms, if at all. 28 Table of Contents We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities, and if we fail to develop and maintain supply relationships with collaborators or other outside manufacturers, we may be unable to develop or commercialize any of our products. Our ability to develop and commercialize products will depend in part on our ability to manufacture, or arrange for collaborators or other parties to manufacture, our products at a competitive cost, in accordance with regulatory requirements and in sufficient quantities for clinical testing and eventual commercialization. We are dependent on our collaborators to either manufacture clinical supplies or cooperate with us in the manufacture of the clinical supplies by third parties. For example, we depend on LGLS to manufacture ANA380, and any inability of LGLS to provide adequate amounts of ANA380 or any disagreement with LGLS surrounding the supply of ANA380 could delay or prevent us from conducting future clinical trials with ANA380. We currently do not have any significant manufacturing arrangements or agreements, as our current product candidates will not require commercial-scale manufacturing for at least several years, if ever. Our inability to enter into or maintain manufacturing agreements with collaborators or capable contract manufacturers on acceptable terms could delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and would increase our expenses. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we may develop, we may not be able to generate product revenue. We do not currently have the capabilities for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize any products, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. Although we currently expect to commercialize in the U.S. our HCV product candidate and other potential product candidates that are of strategic interest to us, because the most advanced of these product candidates are in early stage clinical development, we have not definitively determined whether we will attempt to establish internal sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we may develop. The establishment and development of our own sales force to market any products we may develop in the U.S. will be expensive and time-consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish our sales and marketing capability or any other non-technical capabilities necessary to commercialize any product we may develop, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell any products we may develop in the U.S. We will also need to develop a plan to market and sell any products we may develop outside the U.S. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We will need to expand and effectively develop our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to successfully pursue our research, development and commercialization efforts and secure collaborations to market and distribute our products. If we continue to grow, it is possible that our management, accounting and scientific personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. To manage any growth, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully manage the expansion of our operations or operate on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. If we are unable to attract and retain key management and scientific staff, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. We are a small company, with under 100 employees, and our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. In particular, our research and drug discovery programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled chemists, biologists, and preclinical and clinical personnel, especially in the fields of HCV, HBV, oncology and structure-based drug design. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology and pharmaceutical businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our research and development objectives and our ability to meet the demands of our collaborators in a timely fashion. In addition, all of our employees are “at will” 29 Table of Contents employees, which means that any employee may quit at any time and we may terminate any employee at any time. Currently we do not have employment agreements with any employees or members of senior management that provide any guarantee of continued employment by us. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering any members of senior management. If we lose the services of Lawrence C, Fritz, Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen T. Worland, Ph.D., our President, Pharmaceuticals, James T. Glover, our Senior Vice President, Operations and Chief Financial Officer, or other members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. Our quarterly results and stock price may fluctuate significantly. We expect our results of operations to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The level of our revenues, if any, and results of operations at any given time, will be based primarily on the following factors: • the status of development of ANA380, ANA975 and our other product candidates, including results of preclinical studies and clinical trials and changes in regulatory status; • our recommendation of additional compounds for preclinical development; • our execution of collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, and the timing and accounting treatment of payments we make or receive under these arrangements; • whether or not we achieve specified research or commercialization milestones under any agreement that we enter into or have entered into with collaborators and the timely payment by commercial collaborators of any amounts payable to us; • our collaborators’ termination of any of our collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, or any disputes regarding such arrangements; • our addition or termination of research programs or funding support; • variations in the level of expenses related to our product candidates or potential product candidates during any given period; and • the effect of competing technological and market developments. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. In particular, if our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. In addition, fluctuations in the stock prices of other companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries and in the financial markets generally may affect our stock price. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We may attempt to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products or in-license technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our business, at the appropriate time and as resources permit. We believe that strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, technologies, services or products are a material component of our business strategy to provide us with access to new compounds that are potentially synergistic with our existing product candidate portfolio. If we undertake any acquisition in addition to our in-license of ANA380 from LGLS, the process of integrating the acquired business, technology, service or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. These operational and financial risks include: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to acquiring and developing acquired products or technologies; 30 Table of Contents • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • negative effect on our earnings (or loss) per share; • difficulty and cost in combining and integrating the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers, contractors or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. Although we acquired the exclusive worldwide rights to isatoribine as part of a licensing agreement with Valeant Pharmaceuticals International (formerly known as ICN Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) and have obtained from LGLS development and commercialization rights to ANA380 in certain territories, we have limited experience in identifying acquisition targets, successfully completing potential acquisitions and integrating any acquired businesses, technologies, services or products into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. If we fail to successfully identify strategic opportunities, complete strategic transactions or integrate acquired businesses, technologies, services or products, we may not be able to successfully expand our product candidate portfolio to provide adequate revenue to attain and maintain profitability. Earthquake damage to our facilities could delay our research and development efforts and adversely affect our business. Our headquarters and research and development facilities in San Diego, California, are located in a seismic zone, and there is the possibility of an earthquake, which could be disruptive to our operations and result in delays in our research and development efforts. In the event of an earthquake, if our facilities or the equipment in our facilities are significantly damaged or destroyed for any reason, we may not be able to rebuild or relocate our facility or replace any damaged equipment in a timely manner and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Industry Because our product candidates and development and collaboration efforts depend on our intellectual property rights, adverse events affecting our intellectual property rights will harm our ability to commercialize products. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or effectively-protected trade secrets cover them. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for isatoribine, ANA975, ANA380, other oral prodrugs of isatoribine, other TLR-7 oral prodrugs or our other drug candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against competitive products or processes. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even with respect to patents that have issued or will issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are, or will be valid, enforceable or will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. For example: • we might not have been the first to make, conceive, or reduce to practice the inventions covered by all or any of our pending patent applications and issued patents; 31 Table of Contents • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • our issued or acquired patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties; • our issued patents may not be valid or enforceable; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. Patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. Consequently, we cannot be certain that we or our collaborators were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on our product candidates. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application relating to our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent Office to determine priority of invention in the U.S. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a material adverse effect on our U.S. patent position. Furthermore, we may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or by covering similar technologies that affect our drug market. In addition, some countries, including many in Europe, do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans, and in these countries patent protection may not be available at all to protect our drug candidates. Even if patents issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of those patents will be valid and enforceable or provide us with any significant protection against competitive products, or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. We may be particularly affected by this because we expect that ANA975 and ANA380, if approved, will be marketed in foreign countries with high incidences of HCV and HBV infection. Other companies may obtain patents and/or regulatory approvals to use the same drugs to treat diseases other than HCV or HBV. As a result, we may not be able to enforce our patents effectively because we may not be able to prevent healthcare providers from prescribing, administering or using another company’s product that contains the same active substance as our products when treating patients infected with HCV or HBV. If we fail to obtain and maintain patent protection and trade secret protection of ANA380, ANA975, other oral prodrugs of isatoribine or other TLR-7 oral prodrugs or our other product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses, the competition we face would increase, reducing our potential revenues and adversely affecting our ability to attain or maintain profitability. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of others, it will be costly and time- consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others exist in HCV, HBV and the other fields in which we are developing products. These could materially affect our ability to develop our drug candidates or sell our products. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or technologies may infringe. There also may be existing patents, of which we are not aware, that our product candidates or technologies may inadvertently infringe. Further, there may be issued patents and pending patent applications in fields relevant to our business, of which we may become aware from time to time, that we believe we do not infringe or that we believe are invalid or relate to immaterial portions of our overall drug discovery and development efforts. We cannot assure you that third parties holding any of these patents or patent applications will not assert infringement claims against us for damages or seeking to enjoin our activities. We also cannot assure you that, in the event of litigation, we will be able to successfully assert any belief we may have as to non-infringement, invalidity or immateriality, or that any infringement claims will be resolved in our favor. 32 Table of Contents There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. Any litigation or claims against us, with or without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could result in substantial damages and force us to do one or more of the following if a court decides that we infringe on another party’s patent or other intellectual property rights: • cease selling, incorporating or using any of our product candidates or technologies that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms, it at all; or • redesign our processes or technologies so that they do not infringe, which could be costly and time-consuming and may not be possible. If we find during clinical evaluation that our drug candidates for the treatment of HCV or HBV or in the other fields in which we are developing products should be used in combination with a product covered by a patent held by another company or institution, and that a labeling instruction is required in product packaging recommending that combination, we could be accused of, or held liable for, infringement of the third-party patents covering the product recommended for co-administration with our product. In that case, we may be required to obtain a license from the other company or institution to use the required or desired package labeling, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our product candidates. We may be involved in lawsuits or proceedings to protect or enforce our patent rights, trade secrets or know-how, which could be expensive and time- consuming. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time-consuming. Litigation and interference proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. Further, the outcome of patent litigation is subject to uncertainties that cannot be adequately quantified in advance, including the demeanor and credibility of witnesses and the identity of the adverse party. This is especially true in biotechnology related patent cases that may turn on the testimony of experts as to technical facts upon which experts may reasonably disagree and which may be difficult to comprehend by a judge or jury. An adverse determination in an interference proceeding or litigation, particularly with respect to ANA975, isatoribine or any other oral prodrug of isatoribine or to ANA380, to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties. If required, the necessary licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from commercializing ANA975, ANA380 or our other product candidates, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of pre-trial document and witness discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information nor result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may 33 Table of Contents independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Many competitors have significantly more resources and experience, which may harm our commercial opportunity. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid and significant technological change. We have many potential competitors, including major drug and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources, experience and expertise in: • research and development; • preclinical testing; • clinical trials; • regulatory approvals; • manufacturing; and • sales and marketing of approved products. Smaller or early-stage companies and research institutions may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established pharmaceutical or other companies. We will also face competition from these parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or potentially advantageous to our business. If any of our competitors succeed in obtaining approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for their products sooner than we do or for products that are more effective or less costly than ours, our commercial opportunity could be significantly reduced. If our competitors develop treatments for HCV, HBV, cancer or in the other fields in which we are developing products that are approved faster, marketed better or demonstrated to be more effective than ANA975, ANA380, ANA773 or ANA59X or any other products that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We believe that a significant number of drugs are currently under development and may become available in the future for the treatment of HCV, HBV, certain cancers and in other fields in which we are developing products. Potential competitors may develop treatments for HCV, HBV, certain cancers or for other disease areas in which we are developing products, or other technologies and products that are more effective or less costly than our product candidates or that would make our technology and product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. Some of these products may use therapeutic approaches that compete directly with ANA975, ANA380, ANA773 or with ANA59X. In addition, less expensive generic forms of currently marketed drugs could lead to additional competition upon patent expiration or invalidations. ANA975 is also subject to competition in the treatment of HCV from a number of products already approved and on the market, including the following: Peg-Intron (pegylated interferon-alpha-2b), Rebetol (ribavirin), and Intron-A (interferon-alpha-2b), which are marketed by Schering-Plough, and Pegasys (pegylated interferon-alpha-2a), Copegus (ribavirin USP), and Roferon-A (interferon-alpha-2a), which are marketed by Roche. We expect new products for the treatment of HCV will be introduced that may lead to further competition for ANA975. Additional compounds in late stage clinical trials include, but are not limited to, Viramidine, in development by Valeant Pharmaceuticals, Albuferon, in development by Human Genome Sciences and Novartis, NM283 (valopicitabine dihydrochloride), in development by Idenix Pharmaceuticals and Novartis, VX-950, in development by Vertex Pharmaceuticals and Janssen Pharmaceutica, SCH503034, in development by Schering-Plough, and ITMN-191, in development by Intermune. 34 Table of Contents Similarly, both ANA975 and ANA380 are also subject to competition in the treatment of HBV from other products already approved and on the market. Current small-molecule treatments for HBV include lamivudine (Zeffix/ Epivir HBV) from GlaxoSmithKline, adefovir (Hepsera) from Gilead and entecavir (Baraclude) from Bristol-Myers Squibb. Telbivudine, a small molecule treatment for HBV being developed by Idenix Pharmaceuticals and Novartis, has recently been approved by the US FDA and is currently under regulatory review by the EMEA and the Chinese health authority. In addition, interferon-alpha therapy (Intron-A) from Schering-Plough and Pegasys (pegylated interferon-alpha-2a) from Roche have been endorsed by various regulators for the treatment of HBV. Tenofovir (Viread), an approved HIV compound from Gilead, is in Phase III trials for HBV. Finally, several other compounds are being studied in Phase III clinical trials. We also face competition from a number of companies working in the field of cancer and in other disease areas in which we are developing products. Many other competitors are developing products for the treatment of our target diseases. If successful, we will compete with these products and others in varying stages of the drug development process. If we cannot establish pricing of our product candidates acceptable to the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors, any product sales will be severely hindered. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect: • our ability to set a price we believe is fair for any products we or our collaborators may develop; • our ability to generate adequate revenues and gross margins; and • the availability of capital. In certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the U.S., given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. The trend toward managed health care in the U.S., which could significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care, control pharmaceutical prices or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for our product candidates. While we cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals affecting our business will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could have a material and adverse effect on our potential revenues and gross margins. If we cannot arrange for reimbursement policies favorable to our product candidates, their sales will be severely hindered. Our ability to commercialize ANA975, ANA380 or any other product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of ANA975, ANA380 or any other products and related treatments. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, including treatments for HCV and HBV. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the U.S. as well as legislative proposals to reform health care, control pharmaceutical prices or reduce government insurance programs, may also result in exclusion of our product candidates from reimbursement programs. The cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to earn product revenue and generate significant profits and could impact our ability to raise capital. Product liability claims may damage our reputation and, if insurance proves inadequate, the product liability claims may harm our results of operations. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure for claimed injuries related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials, and will face an even greater risk if we or our collaborators sell our product candidates commercially. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product candidates; • injury to our reputation; 35 Table of Contents • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • the inability to establish new collaborations with potential collaborators; • substantial costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We currently have product liability insurance that covers our on-going clinical trials and plan to increase and expand this coverage as we commence larger scale trials. We also intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our product candidates. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Any claims relating to our improper handling, storage or disposal of biological, hazardous and radioactive materials could be time-consuming and costly. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals that cause cancer, volatile solvents, including ethylacetate and acetonitrile, radioactive materials and biological materials including plasma from patients infected with HCV, HBV or other infectious diseases that have the potential to transmit disease. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or with the conditions attached to our operating licenses, the licenses could be revoked, and we could be subjected to criminal sanctions and substantial liability or required to suspend or modify our operations. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources, and our clinical trials could be suspended. In addition, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations. We do not currently have a pollution and remediation insurance policy. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our drug discovery programs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability as a result, our drug discovery programs may be adversely affected and the further development of our product candidates may be delayed. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they are able to sell in the public market. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares or the expectation that such sale may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. 36 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • changes in the regulatory status of our product candidates, including the status and results of our clinical trials for ANA975 and ANA380; • significant contracts, new technologies, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, trade secrets, litigation matters, and our ability to patent or otherwise protect our product candidates and technologies; • developments under our collaboration agreements with our collaborators; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies or of the markets generally; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • failure to meet or exceed securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations of our quarterly financial results, clinical results or our achievement of milestones; • changes in accounting principles including the implementation of SFAS No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, which we adopted effective January 1, 2006. We expect that this accounting change will have a negative impact on our operating losses and potential earnings in future periods; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, or the expectation that such sales may occur, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • additions or departures of key personnel; • discussion of our business, products, financial performance, prospects or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and online investor communities such as chat rooms; • regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; • economic and political factors, including wars, terrorism and political unrest; and • technological advances by our competitors. Our largest stockholders may take actions that are contrary to your interests, including selling their stock. A small number of our stockholders hold a significant amount of our outstanding stock. These stockholders may support competing transactions and have interests that are different from yours. In addition, the average number of shares of our stock that trade each day is generally low. As a result, sales of a large number of shares of our stock by these large stockholders or other stockholders within a short period of time could adversely affect our stock price. 37 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; • permitting the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval; • prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with 66 2/3% stockholder approval; and • requiring advance notice for raising matters of business or making nominations at stockholders’ meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 