risk factors set forth under “Item 3. Key Information — Risk Factors”, “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and other factors found elsewhere in this Annual Report. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. We are not under any obligation, and we expressly disclaim any obligation, to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent that, as a result of fulfilling our disclosure obligations under applicable securities laws and regulations, we determine that such an update is necessary. 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisors Not applicable. Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable Not applicable. Item 3. Key Information SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA The selected consolidated financial data set forth below has been derived from, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU), as applicable to the Company. There are no differences between IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). These standards differ in certain significant respects from generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, commonly referred to as US GAAP. Note 40 to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements describes the principal differences between IFRS and US GAAP as they relate to us, and reconciles our net income and shareholders’ equity to US GAAP. Selected consolidated financial data below is in accordance with IFRS except as otherwise stated. Year ended as at December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 € US$(1) € € € € (in millions, except per share amounts or as otherwise stated) INCOME STATEMENT DATA: Net sales 939 1,204 865 749 787 1,023 Cost of sales (629 ) (807 ) (595 ) (542 ) (587 ) (716 ) Gross profit 310 397 270 207 200 307 Research and development expenses (62 ) (79 ) (63 ) (69 ) (92 ) (113 ) Selling and marketing expenses (116 ) (149 ) (101 ) (100 ) (113 ) (165 ) General and administrative expenses (68 ) (87 ) (64 ) (77 ) (90 ) (111 ) Litigation expenses — — — — — (18 ) Management severance expenses — — — — — (26 ) Restructuring reversals (expenses) 3 4 (8 ) (62 ) (90 ) (28 ) Other operating income (expense), net — — — 1 — — Goodwill amortization and impairment — — (8 ) (33 ) (47 ) (27 ) Operating income (loss) 67 86 26 (134 ) (232 ) (181 ) Financial income 8 10 8 10 20 28 Financial expense (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (2 ) (71 ) (8 ) Share of profit (loss) of associates (1 ) (1 ) (6 ) (8 ) (3 ) (4 ) Other non-operating income (expense), net (2 ) (3 ) (7 ) (11 ) (22 ) 55 Income (loss) before taxes 71 91 19 (144 ) (308 ) (110 ) Income tax benefit (expense) 20 26 (13 ) (15 ) (9 ) 14 Net income (loss) 91 117 6 (159 ) (317 ) (96 ) Attributable to: Equity holders 90 115 5 (161 ) (321 ) (100 ) Minority interest 1 2 1 2 4 4 Net income (loss) per share attributable to equity holders (2) - Basic 0.15 0.19 0.01 (0.27 ) (0.53 ) (0.16 ) - Diluted 0.14 0.18 0.01 (0.27 ) (0.53 ) (0.16 ) 2 Table of Contents Year ended as at December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 € US$(1) € € € € (in millions, except per share amounts or as otherwise stated) Operating income (loss) under US GAAP (3) 66 85 29 (119 ) (257 ) (117 ) - Net income (loss) under US GAAP (3) 89 114 11 (182 ) (280 ) (49 ) - Net income (loss) per share under US GAAP (2) - Basic (3) 0.14 0.18 0.02 (0.30 ) (0.46 ) (0.08 ) - Diluted (3) 0.14 0.18 0.02 (0.30 ) (0.46 ) (0.08 ) OTHER DATA: Adjusted EBITDA (4) 108 138 83 (39 ) (98 ) (60 ) Net cash from (used for) operating activities 121 155 27 (10 ) (63 ) (23 ) Net cash (used for) investing activities (84 ) (108 ) (26 ) (17 ) (47 ) (65 ) Net cash from (used for) financing activities (8 ) (10 ) (3 ) (6 ) 4 (35 ) BALANCE SHEET DATA: Cash and cash equivalents 418 536 388 391 417 491 Trade accounts receivable, net 183 235 149 155 145 189 Inventory, net 108 138 116 99 97 140 Derivative financial instruments 4 5 33 16 10 (5 ) Other current receivables 82 105 66 67 83 104 Total assets 1,182 1,515 1,025 1,053 1,218 1,531 Minority interest 13 16 11 12 15 17 Equity attributable to equity holders 825 1,058 711 695 860 1,168 Total assets under US GAAP 1,198 1,536 1,039 1,061 1,234 1,441 Shareholders’ equity under US GAAP (3) 836 1,072 729 700 879 1,078 (1) Dollar amounts have been translated for convenience at the Noon Buying Rate (as defined below in the section “Exchange Rate Information and The European Monetary System”) on May 31, 2006, of US$1.00 = € 0.78. (2) Basic net income per share attributable to our equity holders under IFRS and US GAAP is calculated by dividing net income attributable to our equity holders by the weighted average number of our ordinary shares outstanding during each period, in each case adjusted for a fifty-for-one share split that took place on June 21, 2000. The weighted average number of shares used in calculating the basic net income per share was 618,337,539, 606,672,060 605,658,965, 606,222,660 and 636,992,392 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Diluted net income per share attributable to our equity holders under IFRS and US GAAP is calculated in the same manner as basic net income per share, except that the dilutive effect of the exercise of our outstanding share options and warrants is included in the determination of the weighted average number of shares outstanding for each period. The weighted average number of shares used in calculating the diluted net income per share was 634,794,569, 619,022,472, 605,658,965, 606,222,660, and 636,992,392 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001. (3) 2003 and 2004 US GAAP figures have been restated. Please refer to Note 40 and 41 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings attributable to our equity holders before interest expense (net of interest income), provision for income taxes and depreciation, amortization expense and impairment of assets. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA is a useful indicator of operational strength and performance of our business. However, Adjusted EBITDA is not a measurement of operating performance calculated in accordance with either IFRS or US GAAP, and therefore should not be considered a substitute for operating income or net income as a measure of profitability, or a substitute for cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity, in each case determined in accordance with IFRS or US GAAP. Because all companies do not calculate EBITDA identically, the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA contained herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures provided by other companies. 3 Table of Contents The reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA with operating income is as follows: 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 € US$ (1) € € € € (in millions) Operating income (loss) 67 86 26 (134 ) (232 ) (181 ) Depreciation, amortization and impairment 41 52 57 95 134 121 Adjusted EBITDA 108 138 83 (39 ) (98 ) (60 ) (1) Dollar amounts have been translated for convenience at the Noon Buying Rate on May 31, 2006, of US$1.00 = € 0.78. Exchange Rate Information and The European Monetary System For your convenience, this Annual Report contains translations of certain euro amounts into US dollars. Unless otherwise indicated, US dollar amounts have been translated from euros at the rate of US $1.00 = € 0.78, the Noon Buying Rate for the euro on May 31, 2006. The “Noon Buying Rate” is the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in foreign currencies as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. This does not mean that we actually converted these amounts into US dollars at that rate, and you should not assume that they could have been converted at that or any other rate. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and the US dollar may affect the US dollar price of our American Depositary Shares (ADSs) on the NASDAQ National Market. The following table shows the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rates based on the Noon Buying Rate expressed in euros per US dollar for the periods indicated. Euros Period- Average end Rate Rate High Low 2001 1.12 1.12 1.19 1.05 2002 0.95 1.06 1.16 0.95 2003 0.79 0.88 0.97 0.79 2004 0.74 0.80 0.85 0.73 2005 0.84 0.80 0.86 0.74 2005 December 0.84 0.84 0.85 0.83 2006 January 0.82 0.82 0.83 0.81 February 0.84 0.84 0.84 0.83 March 0.82 0.83 0.84 0.82 April 0.79 0.81 0.83 0.79 May 0.78 0.78 0.79 0.78 RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Slow growth or downturns in the wireless communications industry may adversely affect our business. Our business is significantly affected by trends in the wireless communications industry because a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales of wireless products and services. In 2005, sales of wireless products and services accounted for approximately 70% of our revenues, as compared to 74% in 2004. The wireless communications industry experienced positive growth in 2005 as demand for wireless products and services continued to increase. There can be no assurance, however, that this growth will 4 Table of Contents continue, or that the wireless communications industry will not experience dramatic downturns similar to those that occurred in the years 2001 and 2002. Due to the competitive market environment, suppliers to the wireless communications industry are under constant pressure to reduce selling prices, and while we endeavor to provide a broad product range to our customers and continually add new high-end products, a reduction in the average selling price may continue to affect our profitability. In addition, if wireless operators delay making the necessary investments for the introduction of new wireless systems and technologies, our business may be adversely affected due to reduced demand for our products. The markets that we have targeted for a substantial part of our future growth are in the early stages of development, and may not develop rapidly or at all. Many of the markets that we target for our future growth are currently small or non-existent and need to develop for us to achieve our growth objectives. If some or all of these markets do not develop, or if they develop more slowly than we anticipate, then our business may be adversely affected. For example: • We are seeking to take advantage of the development of new markets for wireless communications products and services, including mobile commerce, mobile banking and mobile Internet services. These markets are still just starting to develop. • We are developing chip card products and services for the financial services market. Chip card technology has not yet been widely adopted by the financial services industry outside of France, Germany and the United Kingdom, largely due to the cost of building the necessary infrastructure, the need for more internationally compatible standards and the relatively limited capabilities of all but the newest chip cards. • We are investing in identification and security networks products and services, but so far we have not deployed these products and services on a widespread basis internationally. Some of our businesses in these markets remain in early-stage operations, and we do not know whether or when these businesses will be significantly profitable. Our success depends upon recruiting and retaining key personnel. Our products, services and technologies are complex, and our future growth and success depend to a significant extent on the skills of capable engineers, operators, managers and other key personnel. Maintaining our know-how, and the continued re-training of currently competent personnel, are also necessary to maintain an appropriate level of innovation and technological advancement. The ability to recruit, retain and develop quality personnel is a critical success factor for us. We believe that having skilled and stable management is important to our success. We will undergo certain management changes as part of our integration with Gemalto (see “Item 10. Additional Information — Material Contracts”). We cannot be certain that such changes will not adversely affect our business. Chip card technology may not be adopted in new standards for the markets that we target, such that we may lose some of our existing customers or not be able to obtain new customers. Our ability to grow depends significantly on whether government and industry organizations adopt chip card technology as part of their new technology standards. If these entities do not adopt chip card technology, we might not be able to succeed in some of the new markets we are targeting, or we may lose our existing customers. In order for us to achieve our growth objectives, chip card technology must be adopted in a variety of areas, including in: • certain wireless communication devices and networks that are currently not equipped to use chip cards; • bank credit and debit card systems, which in most countries still use magnetic stripe cards as their primary technology; • computer equipment, which must include chip card readers as standard equipment if the use of chip cards for Internet and other applications is to become common; • digital signature information technology security systems; and 5 Table of Contents • identity card programs. The decisions of standard setting bodies that may decide whether to adopt chip card technology are likely to be based on factors such as: • the cost of adopting chip card technology relative to alternatives; • the degree of security provided by chip card technology relative to alternatives; • the development of competing technologies to provide security and premium value services; • the relative ease of implementing chip card technology; and • whether chip card technology becomes generally accepted by businesses and consumers. Most of our products are subject to competition from other technologies. These technologies include magnetic stripe payment cards, non-chip based authentication, certain wireless standards that do not incorporate a SIM card into the network architecture, and non-portable security devices built into PC motherboards. We believe the chip card has certain advantages, although there may be viable alternatives to our products. We may need to develop further our position as a provider of software and services to earn higher margins from our technology. The development of sophisticated operating systems and applications can represent both a potentially high-margin business and a key driver of more advanced, higher-margin chip card sales. Although we have had some successes positioning ourselves as a provider of services and systems, we cannot be assured that we will be successful in developing a profitable business line, or that we will be able to capture a significant share of the market for the sophisticated services and systems that we believe are likely to produce more attractive margins in the future. We may fail to manage optimally our inventories of microcontroller chips or suffer disruptions in our supply chain. Our technology is based principally on microcontroller chips. The wireless communications industry has been volatile in recent years, experiencing rapid growth in 2000, a downturn in 2001 and 2002, signs of growth in 2003 and improved growth in 2004 and 2005. We have had periods of difficulty managing our inventory levels of microcontroller chips. Failures to manage our inventory can cause us to lose business to competitors, and have lower margins on existing sales. Managing our inventory levels is made more difficult by the fact that the lead-times for the procurement of semiconductors is significant compared to the volatility of demand from our customers. Although in 2005 we managed our inventory at more acceptable levels, managing our inventory supply in the future, particularly if the industry undergoes significant and rapid change, will remain a challenge to our procurement strategy. In addition, if the wireless communications industry experiences a sudden upturn, with significant levels of growth in the near future, we will need to secure adequate supplies of microcontroller chips to expand our production. If we are not able to secure these supplies, or experience supply problems with the newest generation of microcontroller chips that generate our highest margins, we may record lower revenues and profits and lose market share to competitors that have secured adequate chip supplies. There may be supply limitations in the future that could negatively affect our ability to procure microcontroller chips. In 2005, we purchased the significant majority of our microcontroller chips from three suppliers. While there are several chip suppliers in the market, the failure by one or more of our main suppliers to continue to meet our needs could have a material adverse affect on our business. Major suppliers in this industry include Atmel, Infineon, ST Microelectronics, Philips and Samsung. We must manage our chip card production capacities optimally in order to be profitable. Because our activities are based on orders varying in size and requiring different delivery schedules, we need to accurately anticipate demand from our customers for our products and effectively allocate our production capacity to such demand in order to meet delivery requirements, best recapture our fixed costs and maximize our operating margins. In particular, we must make judgments about when and how to allocate production capacity so as to maximize the likelihood that we will produce chip cards with the highest margins and operate our facilities and equipment at a high rate of utilization. Any failure to forecast accurately demand, 6 Table of Contents allocate our capacity optimally or run our operations efficiently may adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, we must accurately forecast demand for products in order to source chips. If we do not accurately forecast our need for chips, we may be left with high chip inventories that we may not be able to use or may need to use to produce products that could have been produced with less powerful and costly chips, which may lead us to record lower profits on these products. Also, we may become responsible for indirect damages resulting from our breach of contract including, without limitation, penalties for failures to meet delivery schedules. If this were to occur, among other things, we would likely need to defend against claims, which could be time consuming and expensive, and we may be found liable for breach of contract. If our products or production facilities fail to satisfy the standards and criteria of various industry organizations and bodies, particularly in the financial market, we may not be eligible to compete for supply contracts to members of such organizations and bodies, which include some of our important customers. If we are unable to keep up with rapid changes in chip card technology, our existing products and services may no longer be competitive or could become obsolete. The market for our products and services is marked by rapid technological change because of frequent new product introductions and chip card technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. New products and services based on new or improved technologies or new industry standards can render existing products and services obsolete and unmarketable. To succeed, we need to enhance continually our current products and service offerings and develop new products and services on a timely basis to keep pace with developments related to chip card technology and to satisfy the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our customers. Any delays in developing and releasing enhanced or new products and services, or in keeping pace with continuous technological change, may cause us to lose our existing customer base or prevent us from expanding it, which could adversely affect our business. The process of developing our products and services is highly complex and requires significant continuing development efforts and investments. Our investments in research and development have been considerable, and while they have declined in recent years, they may need to increase. These expenses may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Many of our major customers, particularly in our financial services segment, belong to powerful industry organizations and bodies. Many of the industry organizations and other bodies to which our customers belong have issued their own sets of standards and criteria relating to chip card manufacturers’ facilities and products, which we must satisfy in order to be eligible to supply products and services to these customers. We make significant investments in order to meet these standards and criteria, which vary depending on the organization or body, including investments required to satisfy changes adopted from time to time by these organizations and bodies in their respective standards and criteria. Further investments may be costly, and if we are unable to continue to meet these standards and criteria, we may become ineligible to provide products and services that have constituted in the past an important part of our revenue and profitability. Our quarterly financial results fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and if our future results are below the expectations of investors, the price of our shares or ADSs may decline. Our operating results have varied from quarter to quarter, and we anticipate that this pattern will continue. This variability makes it difficult to use a particular quarter’s results of operations as an indicator of possible trends. Although these quarterly variations are a historical part of our business, they could affect the market price of our shares or ADSs. In particular, if our results of operations in any quarter are below the expectations of investors, the trading price of our shares or ADSs may decrease significantly. In addition to general economic factors and factors that affect companies generally, a number of factors specific to us are likely to cause quarterly variations, including: • the mix of products and services that we are able to sell, including in particular, whether we are able to increase the sales of our higher margin product and services, such as those we sell in the wireless communications market; 7 Table of Contents • the geographical mix of our sales, including the relative extent of our growth in countries where our products and services are sold at the most attractive prices; • costs related to possible acquisitions of technology or businesses, including costs related to the integration of acquired businesses into our operations; and • the level of success we achieve in maintaining and enhancing existing relationships and developing new relationships with strategic partners, including third party software developers, systems integrators and other implementation partners. In prior years, we experienced seasonal fluctuations in our operating results but cannot be sure such fluctuations will continue in the same or another pattern in the future. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the sale of our products or services to that customer tends to be long and may be subject to delays which may have a negative affect on our revenues. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the purchase of our products and services is often long and subject to delays associated with the budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that frequently accompany significant capital expenditures. A lengthy sales cycle may have a negative effect on the timing of our revenues, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fall below investor expectations. A customer’s decision to purchase our products and services is often discretionary, involves a significant commitment of resources, and is influenced by customer budgetary cycles. To sell our products and services successfully, we generally must educate our potential customers regarding the uses and benefits of our products and services, which can require the expenditure of significant time and resources, however, there can be no assurance that this significant expenditure of time and resources will result in actual sales of our products and services. If our products contain defects or if we make errors in providing services, we could lose customers and revenues and become subject to costly claims. Complex chip card products such as ours can contain errors and defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Similarly, our services can involve decisions that result in our customers making significant investments and changes to their business organizations or processes. Serious defects or errors in our products or services could result in lost revenues or a delay in market acceptance, would be detrimental to our reputation and could cause us to lose existing customers or prevent us from securing new ones, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Defects or other performance problems in our products and services could also result in financial or other losses to our customers, in which case our customers could seek compensation for losses from us. If these kinds of legal claims were to be made, they could be expensive, time consuming and costly to defend against and could harm our reputation, which in turn could result in a loss of our customers and a decrease in our revenues. Although our sales and services agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to such claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could potentially limit the effectiveness of these provisions. If our strategic relationships terminate or do not develop, we may lose important sales and marketing opportunities. We have established strategic relationships, including joint ventures with telecommunications carriers, third party software developers, financial institutions and several government agencies and organizations. These relationships expose our products and services to potential customers to whom we may not otherwise have access. In addition, these relationships provide us with insights into new technology and with access to third-party service providers that our customers can use for implementation assistance. These entities are not always obligated to continue their business relations with us. These business relations could be terminated, and they may either work instead with our competitors or become new competitors of ours. If our strategic relationships or joint ventures are terminated, we might lose important sales and marketing opportunities. Challenges to our intellectual property rights could cause us to incur costly litigation, and if we are not successful, could result in our losing valuable assets or market share. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. If we are not able to defend successfully our industrial or intellectual property rights, we may lose rights to use technology that we need to develop our business, 8 Table of Contents which may cause us to lose market share, or we might be required to pay significant license fees for the use of such technology or might be unable to use such technology at all. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of patent, trade secret and copyright laws, as well as nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying, reverse engineering and distribution, to protect our proprietary technology. We regularly prepare patent applications for technology related to our chip cards. There can be no assurance that these applications, laws and contractual restrictions will be successful. Litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or protect our trade secrets could result in substantial costs and may not be successful, which could result in costly judgments, license fees or injunctions. Any loss of or inability to protect intellectual property in our technology could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws in the European Union or the United States. Our means of protecting our intellectual property rights in the European Union, the United States or any other country in which we operate, may not be adequate to fully protect our intellectual property rights. Similarly, if third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be required to incur significant costs and devote substantial resources to the defense of such claims, and if we are unsuccessful, we could suffer costly judgments and injunctions that could materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We might be forced to change our product and service offerings or be forced to pay higher costs if the third-party technology that we use in our products changes or if the price of such technology increases. Many of our products integrate third-party technologies that we license or otherwise obtain the right to use, including: • software relating to chip card operating systems; • security and cryptographic technology for chip card operating systems, which help prevent unauthorized parties from accessing with or tampering with information; and • public key infrastructure technology that is used for Internet transactions and identification in corporate security networks. Technology providers frequently change their products and cease supporting prior versions of their products. Should such cessation of support occur, we cannot be assured that we will be able to effectively adapt our products and services to accommodate such changes. If not, we may have to change the features of our products and services or to discontinue some or all of them. Some changes in technology may be accompanied by significant price increases that cannot be passed on to our customers, which could increase our costs and materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operation. We have multinational operations that are subject to risks inherent in international operations, including currency exchange rate fluctuations. We conduct our business in all regions of the world, including in many countries outside the United States and the European Union. As a result, we are subject to political, regulatory and commercial risks inherent in international operations, including the risk of currency exchange rate fluctuations, particularly in relation to the U.S. dollar, the British pound, the Chinese yuan and the Singapore dollar. Our operations are subject to the risks associated with international operations, which include: • a slowdown or a recession in global, regional or national economic growth; • tariffs and trade barriers; • exchange controls; • fluctuations in national currencies; • social and political risks; • national and regional labor disputes; 9 Table of Contents • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws, regulations and standards; and • the difficulty of enforcing legal claims and agreements through certain legal systems. Our Identity and Security business is, in part, dependent upon government contracts. Those contracts and related opportunities can be subject to changes in legislation and government policy and initiatives. Such changes can be difficult to predict with any significant level of reliability. To the extent that we incur costs in one currency and make our sales in another, our profit margins may be affected by changes in the exchange rates between the currencies. A substantial part of our expenses is in euros, while a significant amount of our sales is in U.S. dollars and other currencies. The U.S. dollar, and currencies whose exchange rates are tied to the U.S. dollar, have experienced certain declines and limited recoveries in the recent past. Although our general policy is to hedge against much of our currency fluctuation risks, given the volatility of currency exchange rates and the costs of hedging against them, there is no assurance that we will be able to manage effectively these risks. Furthermore, our regional businesses are subject to cyclical fluctuations in the economies in which they operate. Any of the risks above could adversely affect our results of operations. In 2005, we earned 5% of our revenues in China, and we expect to continue to earn a material portion of our revenues in China. Conducting business and manufacturing activities in China is subject to special risks that may not arise in other countries, including: • the possible failure to adopt, or the adoption of inconsistent or ineffectual, market-oriented economic reforms by the government; • uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations; and • the devaluation of the local currency or the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or expatriation of profits. We operate in many jurisdictions with highly complex and variable tax regimes, and changes in tax rules and the outcome of tax assessments and audits could cause a material effect on our financial results. We operate in many jurisdictions with highly complex and variable tax regimes. Changes in tax rules and the outcome of tax assessments and audits could have a material effect on our financial results. The tax rates that we are subject to are variable. Our effective tax rate in any jurisdiction may depend on changes in our level of operating profit or in the applicable rate of taxation there, as well as on changes in estimated tax provisions due to new events. We currently enjoy tax benefits in certain jurisdictions. These benefits may not be available in the future due to changes in the relevant tax rules, which could cause our effective tax rate to increase in the future. Future acquisitions may adversely affect our business. Our strategy to achieve growth may lead us to make significant acquisitions of businesses that we believe to be complementary to our own. Our strategy also depends in part on our ability to identify suitable acquisition targets, finance their acquisitions and obtain required regulatory and other approvals. Future acquisitions may require us to use significant financial resources, to make potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, to incur debt and to incur impairments related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and products acquired and the employees of the acquired businesses, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, the risk of entering geographic markets in which we have little or no prior experience, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. We face risks relating to certain partnerships, joint ventures and subsidiaries that we do not control. Some of our activities are, and will in the future be, conducted through entities that we do not entirely control or in which we have a minority interest, such as in certain joint ventures. Under the governing documents or agreements for these entities, certain key matters such as the approval of business plans require the agreement of our partners and, in some cases, decisions regarding these matters may be made without our approval. There is also a risk of disagreement or deadlock among the stakeholders of jointly controlled entities 10 Table of Contents and that decisions contrary to our interests will be made. These factors could affect our ability to pursue our stated strategies with respect to those entities or have a material adverse effect on our results or financial condition. The integration of us and Gemalto may be difficult and expensive and may not result in the benefits that we currently expect. We have executed an agreement to combine our business with Axalto Holding N.V., to be renamed “Gemalto”. The combination involves the integration of two large and complex businesses that currently operate independently. The achievement of expected synergies from the combination will require the integration of various aspects of the business of Gemalto and our business. Gemalto’s and our goal in integrating our operations is to increase the revenues and earnings of the combined businesses through cost savings, including potential rationalization, planning and operational benefits and, as a combined group, to increase our ability to satisfy the demands of our customers. In so doing, we may encounter substantial difficulties in integrating our operations and fail to achieve the increased revenues, earnings, cost savings and operational benefits that are expected to result from the combination, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of, among other things: • loss of key employees; • inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and Gemalto and the need to implement, integrate and harmonize various business-specific operating procedures and systems, as well as the financial, accounting, information and other systems of us and Gemalto; and • diversion of management’s attention from its other responsibilities as a result of the need to deal with integration issues. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered from integrating the respective businesses of us and Gemalto could increase our costs or reduce our revenues, earnings and operating results. For these reasons, we and Gemalto may fail to complete successfully the necessary integration or realize any of the benefits and synergies that we hope for. If they are achieved, actual cost savings and operational benefits may be lower than we and Gemalto currently expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we and Gemplus currently expect. Regulatory authorities have imposed, and may impose additional conditions on our combination that could reduce the expected benefits of the combination and may affect the price of our securities. In order to secure the approval of our combination with Axalto Holding N.V., we agreed with the European Commission to make certain undertakings in respect of our operations. These undertakings involve a commitment to broadly license certain intellectual property to competitors under fair and reasonable terms for ten years, and to provide certain access to information relating to our “over-the-air” wireless network gateway software for eight years. While we do not believe that compliance with these undertakings will have a material adverse effect on our operations, the financial impact on us, and any impact on the price of our securities, is difficult to predict with certainty. In addition, antitrust enforcement agencies outside of the European Union frequently review transactions such as the combination. At any time before or after the consummation of the transaction, an antitrust enforcement agency in a jurisdiction may take action under the applicable law of the jurisdiction as it deems necessary or desirable in the public interest, including seeking to enjoin our combination transaction or otherwise seeking to impose conditions on the operation of our businesses. Private parties may also bring legal action under the antitrust laws under some circumstances. Although we believe that the risk is not significant, antitrust, other regulatory agencies or private parties in a jurisdiction where we or Gemalto do not have unconditional clearance could take action under applicable law that is adverse to us. Change of control provisions in our agreements may be triggered upon a combination with Gemalto and may lead to adverse consequences for us, including the loss of significant contractual rights and benefits, the termination of joint venture and/or licensing agreements or the need to renegotiate financing agreements. We may be a party to joint ventures, licenses and other agreements and instruments that contain change of control provisions that may be triggered upon the completion of the proposed combination with Gemalto. Agreements with change of control provisions typically provide for, or permit the termination of, the agreement upon the occurrence of a change of control of one of the parties or, in the case of debt instruments, require repayment of all outstanding indebtedness. These provisions, if any, may be waived with the consent of the other party and we will consider whether we will seek these waivers. In the absence of these waivers, the operation of 11 Table of Contents the change of control provisions, if any, could result in the loss of significant contractual rights and benefits, the termination of joint venture agreements and licensing agreements or require the renegotiation of financing agreements. In addition, employment agreements with members of our senior management and other of our employees may contain change of control clauses providing for compensation to be paid in the event the employment of these employees is terminated, either by us or by those employees, following the consummation of the proposed combination. These payments, if triggered, could be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations in the period they become payable. Our operating results can vary significantly due to impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets arising from acquisitions, as well as to impairment of assets due to changes in the business environment. As of December 31, 2005, the net value reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheet for goodwill was € 90.8 million (December 31, 2004: € 28.2 million, December 31, 2003: € 37.7 million). Because the market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, and because of significant changes in our industry, our future cash flows may not support the value of goodwill and other intangibles in our balance sheet. We are required to regularly test goodwill and to assess the carrying values of intangible and tangible assets when impairment indicators exist. As a result of such tests, we could be required to book an impairment in our statement of income if the carrying value in our balance sheet is in excess of the fair value. The amount of any potential impairment is not necessarily predictable since it depends on our estimates of projected market trends, results of operations and cash flows. Any potential impairment, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in International Financial Reporting Standards could affect our reported results. We have been preparing our consolidated financial statements and reporting our results in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) since 2000. Some changes in IFRS may have a significant impact on our reported operating results. The International Accounting Standards Board regularly revises current International Financial Reporting Standards with a view to increasing international harmonization of accounting rules. This process of amendment and convergence of worldwide accounting rules could result in significant amendments to existing rules. It is not possible to predict the effect on our reported results of any such changes which may be made in the future, or whether such rule changes would be retrospective, potentially requiring us to restate past reported results. Risks Related to Our Industry Our markets are highly competitive and competition could harm our ability to sell products and services and could reduce our margins and market share. The market for chip card products and services is rapidly changing and intensely competitive. We expect competition to increase as the industry grows and as some chip card technology matures. Intense competition has led to increased pricing pressures on our products which, in turn, has resulted in lower price margins on those products. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, or may not be able to make a profit at the prices we would need to sell products to be competitive. The competitive pressures facing us may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our current principal competitors include chip card product and service providers such as Giesecke & Devrient, Oberthur Card Systems, Sagem Orga and ST Incard. In 2005, this industry also saw moves towards concentration. Sagem purchased German chip card manufacturer Orga Kartensysteme in 2005. Also in 2005, M-Systems, a flash memory maker, took over Spanish smart card maker, Microelectronica Espanola. In 2005, we entered into a Combination Agreement with Axalto Holding N.V. (“Axalto”) pursuant to which our Company and Axalto would be combined. See “