ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As discussed above under “Forward-Looking Statements,” the Company provides the following risk factor disclosures in connection with its continuing efforts to qualify its forward-looking statements for certain safe harbor protections. Important factors currently known to management that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Related to Our Financing and Recently Completed Reorganization We emerged from Chapter 11 reorganization and have a history of recent losses. We sought protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in February 2004. We incurred net losses of $2.336 million, $106.075 million and $33.192 million during the three fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Selected Historical Consolidated Financial Data.” Our equity ownership and Board of Directors was replaced in connection with our reorganization. While our current senior management has concentrated on refining our business strategy, there can be no assurance that we will attain profitability or achieve growth in its operating performance. We have substantial indebtedness and the covenants that are contained in our credit facility may significantly impact our future operations. Although implementation of the Plan significantly reduced our debt service obligations, we have indebtedness pursuant to our credit facility that is substantial in relation to our shareholders’ equity. Although no assurances can be given, we believe that we will generate sufficient cash flow to meet our operating requirements, including the payment of interest under the credit facility when due. The credit facility contains restrictive financial and operating covenants and prohibitions, including provisions that restrict the payment of dividends on our Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “common stock”) and cash dividends on our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “convertible preferred stock”), and otherwise limit our ability to make distributions to holders of convertible preferred stock. Our leverage and restrictions contained in the credit facility require that a substantial portion of our cash flow be dedicated to service interest expense and to make mandatory payments of principal, which may impair our ability to finance our future operations and capital needs and may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities. Substantially all of our assets are subject to various liens and security interests. Substantially all of our cash, receivables, equipment, inventory, real property and other assets are currently subject to various liens and security interests in favor of the lenders under the credit facility and in favor of other creditors. If a holder of a security interest becomes entitled to exercise its rights as a secured party, it would have the right to foreclose upon and sell or otherwise transfer the collateral subject to its security interest, and the collateral accordingly would be unavailable to us or our subsidiary owning the collateral and to other of our creditors or creditors of such subsidiary, except to the extent, if any, that such other creditors have a superior or equal security interest in the affected collateral or the value of the affected collateral exceeds the amount of indebtedness in respect of which such foreclosure rights are exercised. We have announced our intention to possibly sell a significant portion of our assets, including our marine vessels, and if successful, we will rely upon 3rd parties for transportation of stone across the Great Lakes. 11 As a result of Fresh-Start reporting rules, our historical financial information will not be comparable with our financial information for periods ending after our emergence from bankruptcy. As a result of the consummation of the Plan and the transactions contemplated thereby, we were subject to the Fresh-Start reporting rules as of December 31, 2004. Accordingly, the reported historical financial statements prior to the adoption of Fresh-Start reporting (the “Predecessor Company”) for periods ended prior to December 31, 2004 are not comparable to those of the Reorganized Company. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to our operations and cash flows during the periods ended in fiscal 2004 and 2003 refer to the Predecessor Company. We intend to become a non-registrant pursuant to the federal securities laws. We intend to seek approval to terminate that certain Registration Rights Agreement dated as of January 31, 2005 between us and certain holders of the convertible preferred stock and to de-register our common and convertible preferred stock. If we become a non-registrant, we will not be obligated to file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission or comply with most provisions of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002. Although the stock will continue to trade over the counter, it may become difficult to trade and will not qualify for listing on a major exchange or system such as the NASDAQ National Market System. The risks related to our business, combined with our leverage and limited capital resources, could negatively impact our future. Our principal sources of funds are expected to be operating revenues, cash and cash equivalents and funds available for borrowing under the credit facility. There can be no assurance that these funds will be sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements on a consolidated basis. If the anticipated levels of revenues are not achieved because of decreased demand for our product or weakness in the overall market for minerals and aggregates, or if expenses exceed the level we contemplate, the current sources of funds may be insufficient to meet our cash requirements in the future. Further, our operations will be subject to the risks discussed below in “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business.” Should any of the potential adverse developments referred to in those risk factors occur, our available capital resources may prove insufficient. In the event that our available capital resources are insufficient, we would need to take additional steps to increase revenues, curtail expenses, sell assets or raise additional capital. There is no assurance that these approaches would be successful, and even if successful, these approaches could trigger other adverse effects on our business or operating results or financial condition. A major portion of our bank debt consists of variable-rate obligations, which subjects us to interest rate fluctuations. Our credit facility is secured by accounts receivable, inventory and property, plant and equipment. Our credit facility contains variable-rate obligations, which expose us to interest rate risks. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable-rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, resulting in a decrease in our net income. Risks Related to Our Business Our operations are cyclical and demand for our products fluctuates, which could adversely affect our results of operations. All of our operations are cyclical. Further, we experience increases and decreases in profitability throughout the year resulting mostly from fluctuating demand for our products. Demand in the markets served by our industries is influenced by many factors, including the following: • global and regional economic conditions; • fluctuations in energy, fuel, oil and natural gas prices and the availability of such fuels; • declines in steel production; 12 • changes in residential and commercial construction demands, driven in part by fluctuating interest rates and demographic shifts, especially in the Great Lakes and Mid-Atlantic regions; • changes in demand for our products due to technological innovations; • changes in environmental laws and regulations; • changes in weather; • prices, availability and other factors relating to our products; • demand for automobiles and other vehicles; • the substitution of plastic or other materials for glass; • labor strikes and costs at our customers; • population growth rates; • government spending on road and other infrastructure construction; and • Great Lakes water levels. We cannot predict or control the factors that affect demand for our products and services. Negative developments in the above factors, among others, would cause the demand for and supply of our products and services to suffer, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We sell our products and services in highly competitive markets, and if we fail to compete effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We sell our products and services in highly competitive markets. We believe that, for all of our business segments, price, product quality, product characteristics, location and customer service are the most significant competitive considerations. In many of our markets, we may face competition from large companies that have greater financial resources and less debt, which may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. We expect competitive pressures in our markets to remain strong. If we fail to compete effectively, our result of operations could be adversely affected. Natural disasters, equipment failures, unavailability of fuel sources and other unexpected events could increase the cost of operating our business. The mineral production and the marine transportation industries are inherently risky businesses the operations of which are subject to conditions beyond our control. Our mining operations are affected by weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding, equipment failures and other unexpected maintenance problems, variations in the amount of rock and soil overlying mineral deposits, variations in geological conditions, fires, explosions and other accidents, fluctuations in the price or availability of supplies and other matters. We operate three underground limestone mines and in recent years, our O-N Minerals Inland Operations segment’s operations were negatively impacted by some of these events, including flooding, equipment failures and other maintenance problems. In addition, recent increases in the price of fuel necessary for mining, processing and shipping operations have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, operating costs. Any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, our mining properties or processing facilities, personal injury to our employees, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, losses or possible legal liability. We cannot predict whether we will suffer the impact of these and other conditions in the future. We rely on the estimates of our mineral reserves, and if those estimates are inaccurate, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop or acquire additional industrial mineral reserves and to profitably extract those reserves. Although we believe that the depletion of our existing mineral 13 reserves is unlikely for many years, we cannot state with certainty how long it will be profitable for us to extract our reserves in the future. To increase the reserves and mining production, we must continue to develop and acquire reserves. It is difficult for us, and for other mining companies, to estimate quantities of additional recoverable reserves. Our estimates of reserve data are based on independent studies as well as on our own studies. Our estimates of industrial mineral reserves and future net cash flows, however, depend upon a number of factors and assumptions which include: • historical production from the areas; • interpretation of geological, geophysical and chemical quality data; • assumptions concerning effects of regulations by governmental agencies; • assumptions concerning future industrial mineral prices; • assumptions concerning future market conditions and competitive environment; • assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance costs and excise taxes; and • assumptions concerning development costs and reclamation costs. These factors and assumptions may vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, our reserve data may not be accurate. Our actual production, revenues and expenditures likely will vary from these estimates, and these variances may be material. We cannot provide assurances that its attempts to maintain adequate reserves in the future will be successful. Mine closures entail substantial costs, and if we close one or more of our mines sooner than anticipated, our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we close any of our mines, revenues would be reduced unless we were able to increase production at any of our other mines, which may not be possible. The closure of an open pit mine involves significant fixed closure costs, including accelerated employment legacy costs, severance-related obligations, reclamation and other environmental costs, and the costs of terminating long-term obligations, including energy contracts and equipment leases. We base our assumptions regarding the life of our mines on detailed studies we perform from time to time, but those studies and assumptions do not always prove to be accurate. We accrue for the costs of reclaiming open pits, stockpiles, tailings ponds, roads and other mining support areas over the estimated mining life of our property. If we were to reduce the estimated life of any of our mines, the fixed mine closure costs would be applied to a shorter period of production, which would increase production costs per ton produced and could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, if we were to close one or more of our mines prematurely, we would incur significant accelerated employment legacy costs, severance-related obligations, reclamation and other environmental costs, as well as asset impairment charges, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Applicable statutes and regulations require that mining property be reclaimed following a mine closure in accordance with specified standards and an approved reclamation plan. The plan addresses matters such as removal of facilities and equipment, regrading, prevention of erosion and other forms of water pollution, revegetation and post-mining land use. We may be required to post a surety bond or other form of financial assurance equal to the cost of reclamation as set forth in the approved reclamation plan. The establishment of the final mine closure reclamation liability is based upon permit requirements and requires various estimates and assumptions, principally associated with reclamation costs and production levels. Although we believe, based on currently available information, we are making adequate provisions for all expected reclamation and other costs associated with mine closures for which we will be responsible, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected if such accruals were later determined to be insufficient. 14 Our business and our customers’ businesses are subject to extensive environmental and health and safety regulations that impose, and will continue to impose, significant costs and liabilities, and future regulations could increase those costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to the environment, including those relating to our handling of hazardous materials and air and wastewater emissions. Some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance, and others, such as the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability upon persons responsible for releases of hazardous substances. If we fail to comply with present and future environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to liabilities or our operations could be interrupted. In addition, future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or extract our mineral deposits or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with our business. There can be no assurance that future events, including changes in any environmental requirements and the costs associated with complying with such requirements, will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition to environmental regulation, we are subject to laws relating to human exposure to crystalline silica. We believe that we comply with governmental requirements for crystalline silica exposure and emissions and other regulations relating to silica and plans to continue to comply with these regulations. Several federal and state regulatory authorities, including the Mining Safety and Health Administration, may continue to propose changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to comply with any new standards that are adopted or that these new standards will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results by requiring us to modify our operations or equipment or shut down some of our plants. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that our customers will be able to comply with any new standards or that any such new standards will not have a material adverse effect on our customers by requiring them to shut down old plants or to relocate plants to locations with less stringent regulations that are further away from us. Accordingly, we cannot at this time reasonably estimate our costs of compliance or the timing of any costs associated with any new standards, or any material adverse effect that any new standards will have on our customers and, consequently, on our operations. We are subject to various lawsuits relating to the exposure of persons to asbestos and silica. See “Risk Factors—Health issues and litigation relating to silica and asbestos could adversely affect our financial results.” Our mining business is subject to other extensive regulations, including licensing, plant and wildlife protection and reclamation, that impose, and will continue to impose, significant costs and liabilities, and future regulations could increase those costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to the regulatory matters described above, the industrial minerals and aggregates industries are subject to extensive governmental regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, plant and wildlife protection, wetlands protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Our future success depends, among other things, upon the quantity of our industrial minerals and aggregates deposits and our ability to extract these deposits profitably. As discussed above, it is difficult for us to estimate quantities of recoverable deposits, in part due to future permitting and licensing requirements. We believe we have obtained all material permits and licenses required to conduct our present mining operations. However, we will need additional permits and renewals of permits in the future. We may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the impact that any proposed exploration or production activities may have upon the environment. New site approval procedures may require preparation of archaeological surveys, endangered species studies and other studies to assess the environmental impact of new sites. Compliance with these regulatory requirements is expensive, requires an investment of funds well before the potential producer knows if our operations will be economically successful and significantly lengthens the time needed to develop a new site. Finally, obtaining or 15 renewing required permits is sometimes delayed or prevented due to community opposition and other factors beyond our control. New legal requirements, including those related to the protection of the environment, could be adopted that could materially adversely affect our mining operations (including the ability to extract mineral deposits), our cost structure or our customers’ ability to use our industrial minerals or aggregates products. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that current or future mining regulation will not have a material adverse effect on our business or that we will be able to obtain or renew permits in the future. We rely heavily on third party transportation, which is subject to rate fluctuations and rail, shipping and trucking hazards. Other than in the Great Lakes region, we rely heavily on railroads and trucking companies to ship our industrial minerals and aggregates products to customers. Because freight costs represent a significant portion of the total cost to the customer, fluctuations in freight rates can change the relative competitive position of our production facilities. Rail, shipping and trucking operations are subject to various hazards, including extreme weather conditions and operating hazards, as well as slowdowns due to labor strikes and other work stoppages. If we are unable to ship our products as a result of the railroads or shipping or trucking companies failing to operate or if there are material changes in the cost or availability of rail, shipping or trucking services, we may not be able to arrange alternative and timely means to ship our products, which could lead to interruptions or slowdowns in our businesses and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on our seamen employees, and on our existing vessels, which require regular and unanticipated maintenance and impose significant costs on us. Our newest Great Lakes vessel was commissioned in 1981 and the oldest in 1943. The relatively long life of our vessels is due to a scheduled program of regular winter maintenance, periodic renovation and minimal corrosion because they operate only in fresh water. In general, we must spend more money to maintain a vessel in good operating condition as the age of our vessel increases. However, our Great Lakes shipping operations might not be profitable enough in the future to justify spending the necessary money on maintenance to keep the vessels in service. Our vessels depend upon complex mechanical systems for both propulsion and unloading cargo. If any of these systems fail, we may be forced to take the affected vessel out of service. If we do this, we will lose the revenue and earnings associated with that vessel. Currently, there is a shortage of skilled and licensed merchant seamen. If we cannot hire qualified seamen to operate our vessels, we may be forced to reduce our shipping operations. If we do this, we will lose the associated expected revenues and earnings. In addition, although our vessels are insured, if we suffer catastrophic damage to a vessel or loss of life of seamen employees, the insurance proceeds may not cover the cost of a new vessel or any damages related to such loss of life. In 2005, we also announced that we had engaged Jefferies & Company to assist in evaluation potential transactions related to our Great Lakes fleet. The decision to hire an investment banker is in response to recently received expressions of interest. We are exploring the possibility of redeploying the capital invested in the remainder of the vessels for the reduction of debt and for capital investments consistent with our strategy. We are subject to potential increases in competitive pressure from other modes of transportation. Aside from dealing with the impact on profitability resulting from such factors as changes in water levels and the congestion of the ports and locks serving the Great Lakes, the shipping component of the O-N Minerals Great Lakes Operations segment must compete with the price and availability of other ships and other modes of transportation, including railroads and trucks. The shipping component of the O-N Minerals Great Lakes Operations segment could face additional competitive pressures if the Merchant Marine Act of 1920 as amended, otherwise known as the Jones Act, is repealed. The Jones Act requires that cargo moving between U.S. ports be carried in a vessel that was built in the United States, has a U.S. crew and is owned, at least 75%, by U.S. citizens or corporations. If the Jones Act is repealed, we may be unable to compete successfully with new competitors that could enter the market. 16 Our sales and earnings are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of the cyclical nature of the steel industry. Our net sales to the steel industry accounted for 17% of our total revenue in each year of 2005, 2004 and 2003. The steel industry is highly cyclical, sensitive to general economic conditions and dependent on the condition of certain other industries. As a result, the demand for steel products is generally affected by macroeconomic fluctuations in the United States and global markets in which steel companies sell their products. Over the past few years, a significant number of domestic steel companies, some of which had been our customers, entered bankruptcy proceedings. The continued or future loss of customers in the steel industry could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Because we experience seasonal fluctuations in our sales, our quarterly results will fluctuate, and our annual performance will be affected by those fluctuations. Our businesses are seasonal, meaning that we experience higher levels of activity in some periods of the year than in others. For example, our mining operations experience weaker demand during the winter months, when weather conditions can affect the shipping, road and rail distribution of products and the use of industrial sands, lime and limestone for construction. In addition, we are ordinarily able to operate our vessels on the Great Lakes for about 259 days per year beginning in early April and continuing through mid-December. However, weather conditions and customer demand cause increases and decreases in the number of days our vessels actually operate. We depend on a limited number of customers, and the loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our operations. During 2005, our top ten customers represented 33% of our sales from continuing operations. These customers might not continue to purchase these levels of our products and services in the future due to a variety of reasons. For example, some of our top customers could go out of business or, alternatively, be acquired by other companies who purchase the same products and services provided by us from other third party providers. Although we believe we have a diverse customer base, if certain major customers substantially reduce or stop purchasing our products or services, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our profitability could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. As of December 31, 2005, various labor unions represented about 42% of our employees. The collective bargaining agreement that expired during 2005 was ratified without any work stoppages. In 2006, two collective bargaining agreements representing approximately 130 employees will expire. Management expects to be able to negotiate new contracts with these labor unions. If we are unable to renegotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements with these unions in the future, we could experience, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by our workers and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages, health care costs or benefits paid to our union employees. Although we consider our current relations with the employees to be good, if we do not maintain these good relations, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our expenditures for post-retirement and pension obligations could be materially higher than predicted if the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation asserts a claim against us or if our underlying estimates prove to be incorrect. We sponsor qualified defined benefit pension plans that (1) are covered by Title IV of ERISA and (2) are subject to the minimum funding standards of the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA (the “qualified pension plans”). According to regulations issued by the United States Treasury Department and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, we are liable for (1) any funding deficiency or unpaid Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation premiums with respect to any of the qualified pension plans and (2) any unfunded benefit liabilities if any of the qualified pension plans are terminated, either by the plan sponsor or by the Pension Benefit 17 Guaranty Corporation. Although we do not currently intend to terminate the qualified pension plans, they are not all fully funded. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation has the right to seek available remedies under applicable law against us. If the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation were to enforce such a claim, the claim could significantly adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors may increase our pension expenses or our funding obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. We provide defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement health and life insurance benefits to eligible union and non-union employees. Our pension expense and our required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure our defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the rate that future obligations are discounted to a present value. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially higher. Moreover, we cannot ensure that regulatory changes will not increase our obligations to provide these or additional benefits. These obligations also may increase substantially in the event of adverse medical cost trends or unexpected rates of early retirement, particularly for bargaining unit employees for whom there is no retiree health care cost cap. Early retirement rates likely would increase substantially in the event of a mine closure. Additionally, our pension and postretirement health and life insurance benefits obligations, expenses and funding costs would increase significantly if one or more of the mines in which we have invested is closed. A mine closure would trigger accelerated pension and defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement health and life insurance benefits obligations. Any of these events could significantly adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Health issues and litigation relating to silica and asbestos could adversely affect our financial results. We are a defendant in various lawsuits related to our businesses. These matters include lawsuits relating to the exposure of persons to asbestos and silica. With respect to silica claims, at December 31, 2005, we were a co-defendant in cases involving about 15,219 claimants. At December 31, 2005, we were a co-defendant in cases alleging asbestos-induced illness involving claims of about 46,585 claimants. The severity of the risk of a potential material adverse effect on our operating results from future asbestos claims cannot be measured, and is highly dependent on the rate of future claims, the cost to defend, settle or otherwise resolve claims, the length of time to resolve claims and the impact of future legislative or other developments in the asbestos litigation arena. Our ability to fund asbestos settlements or judgments will be subject to the availability of our remaining insurance coverage and to funds from operations, asset sales or capital-raising transactions. We have about $236 million of insurance resources available to address both current and future asbestos liabilities. We have had an average of 12,120 asbestos claims asserted against us each year for the past five years. The average cost per claim for settlement or other resolution for the past five years was about $1,000. The length of time to resolve claims varies on a case-by-case basis and can be affected by decisions of management and opposing counsel. If there are no developments that reduce the impact of asbestos litigation or its costs to us, our available insurance may be insufficient to cover all future claims, and there could be a material adverse affect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position. The plaintiffs in these cases generally seek compensatory and punitive damages of unspecified sums based upon common law or statutory product liability claims. Some of these claims have been brought by plaintiffs against us and other product manufacturer co-defendants, some of whom have also filed for bankruptcy protection. In addition, we have been the target of hundreds of lawsuits relating to the exposure by seamen employees to asbestos on the Company’s vessels. All but two of these seaman claims have been resolved and dismissed. Considering our past operations relating to the use of asbestos and our past and present operations in which we mined or mines silica, it is possible that additional claims may be made against us based upon similar or different legal theories seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. 18 Litigation is inherently unpredictable and subject to many uncertainties. Adverse court rulings, determinations of liability or retroactive or prospective changes in the law could affect claims made against us and encourage or increase the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. Therefore, due to the uncertainties involved in any litigation, management is unable to predict the outcome of litigation or the number of possible future claims and proceedings. There can be no assurance, however, that our insurers will not become insolvent or that we will not be involved in certain circumstances in coverage litigation with our insurers. In addition, even if the product liability claims are covered by insurance, there is no assurance that the amount paid in connection with a product liability claim will be sufficient to cover the entire amount of the claim. On April 19, 2005, asbestos personal injury claims reform legislation was introduced to the United States Senate as Senate Bill 852, the “Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2005.” The FAIR Act is problematic for us in its present form in that it appears that we would be in the bottom sub-tier of tier 2 companies and we would not receive credit for insurance assets we have relied upon to date. The insurance assets owned by us would be taken away and would not be available to us to use toward our annual contribution amount. In addition, we, as well as other similarly situated well-insured smaller companies, are disproportionately impacted by the proposed legislation in that it requires us to contribute approximately 4% of our 2002 revenue each year, while larger, and often less well-insured companies, will be required to contribute a fraction of one percent of their respective 2002 revenues each year. On April 26, 2005, the Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing on this bill, and through the Coalition for Asbestos Reform, we were represented. On May 26, 2005, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted the bill out of Committee to be heard on the Senate floor. The Senate went into summer recess on August 1, 2005 before the bill was introduced onto the Senate floor. The bill was introduced on the Senate floor on February 6, 2006; however, the bill was returned to Committee without further action on February 15, 2006 after failing to survive a budget point of order. Since the legislative process is unpredictable and constantly changing, it is unclear whether the FAIR Act will be enacted with or without significant amendment. If the FAIR Act is enacted in its present form, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 