Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below. You should carefully consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks may also have a significant or material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity. Poor performance of the equity markets could adversely affect sales and assets under management of our asset management, variable universal life and variable annuity products, as well as the performance of other equity investments and potential future pension plan funding requirements. The U.S. equity markets can be volatile and experience both periods of strong growth and of substantial declines. There are three ways in which equity market declines and volatility have affected, or have the potential to affect, us negatively. · First, because the fee revenues of our asset management and, to a lesser degree, variable products businesses are based on the value of assets under our management, poor performance of the equity markets limits our fee revenues by reducing the value of the assets we manage. · Second, the funding requirements of our pension plan are dependent on the performance of the equity markets. As of December 31, 2006, the portfolio funding the Company’s pension plan consisted of 66% equities. In a severe market decline, the value of the assets supporting the pension plan would decrease, increasing the requirement for future funding. This funding requirement would increase our expenses and decrease our earnings. · Third, significant market volatility or declines could cause potential purchasers of our products to refrain from purchasing and current owners to withdraw from the markets or reduce their exposure to equity products. Changes in interest rates could harm cash flow and profitability in our life and annuity businesses and adversely affect our future pension plan funding requirements. Our life insurance and annuity businesses are sensitive to interest rate changes. In periods of increasing interest rates, life insurance policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals could increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns. This could require us to sell invested assets at a time when their prices are depressed by the increase in interest rates, which could cause us to realize investment losses. Conversely, during periods of declining interest rates, we could experience increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased percentages of policies remaining in force. We would obtain lower returns on investments made with these cash flows. In addition, borrowers may prepay or redeem bonds in our investment portfolio so that we might have to reinvest those proceeds in lower yielding investments. As a consequence of these factors, we could experience a decrease in the spread between the returns on our investment portfolio and amounts credited to policyholders and contractholders, which could adversely affect our profitability. 16 The funding requirements of our pension plan are also sensitive to interest rate changes. Should interest rates decrease materially, the value of the liabilities under the plan would increase. This would likely increase the requirement for future funding. This funding requirement would increase our expenses and decrease our earnings. Our profitability may decline if mortality rates or persistency rates differ significantly from our pricing expectations. We set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates, or likelihood of death, of our policyholders. Pricing of our insurance and annuity products is also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. Significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. In addition, such deviations could cause us to increase the amortization of our deferred policy acquisition cost balances, which would also have an adverse impact on profitability. Although most of our current products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability. Some of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. We may incur losses due to our reinsurers being unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance may not be sufficient to protect us against losses. As an insurer, we have a regular program of reinsurance to reduce the losses that may arise from catastrophes or other events that can cause unfavorable underwriting results. As of December 31, 2006, 63.5% of the total face amount of our written policies was ceded to reinsurers. Under these reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and related expenses; however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims and we are subject to our reinsurers’ credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from them. Although we evaluate periodically the financial condition of our reinsurers to minimize our exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, our reinsurers may become financially unsound or choose to dispute their contractual obligations by the time their financial obligations become due. The inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations to us could negatively affect our operating results. In addition, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we are able to purchase. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as are currently available. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our net exposure, reduce the amount of business we write, or develop other alternatives to reinsurance. We depend on non-affiliated distribution for our product sales and if our relationships with these distributors were harmed, we could suffer a loss in revenues. We distribute our products through non-affiliated advisors, broker-dealers and other financial intermediaries. There is substantial competition for business within most of these distributors. We believe that our sales through these distributors depend on factors such as our financial strength, the quality of our products and the services we provide to, and the relationships we develop with, our distributors. Our largest distributors of life insurance include a subsidiary of State Farm Mutual Automobile Company, or State Farm, and National Financial Partners, or NFP. In 2006, State Farm accounted for approximately 29% and NFP accounted for approximately 13% of our new life insurance and annuity sales based on first year commissions. We have had distribution arrangements with State Farm since our initial public offering in 2001 and with NFP since 1995. Our distributors are generally free to sell products from a variety of providers, which makes it important for us to continually offer distributors 17 products and services they find attractive. We may not be able to establish or maintain satisfactory relationships with distributors if our products or services do not meet their needs. Accordingly, our revenues and profitability would suffer. Downgrades to PNX’s debt ratings and Phoenix Life’s financial strength ratings could increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, adversely affect relationships with distributors, reduce new sales and earnings from certain of our life insurance products and increase our future borrowing costs. Rating agencies assign Phoenix Life financial strength ratings, and assign us debt ratings, based in each case on their opinions of the relevant company’s ability to meet its financial obligations. Financial strength ratings reflect a rating agency’s view of an insurance company’s ability to meet its obligations to its insureds. These ratings are therefore key factors underlying the competitive position of life insurers. Downgrades could adversely affect our reputation and, hence, our relationships with existing distributors and our ability to establish additional distributor relationships. If this were to occur, we might experience a decline in sales of certain products and the persistency of existing customers. At this time, we cannot estimate the impact on sales or persistency. A significant decline in our sales or persistency could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Any rating downgrades may result in increased interest costs in connection with future borrowings. Such an increase would decrease our earnings and could reduce our ability to finance our future growth on a profitable basis. Downgrades may also trigger defaults or repurchase obligations. Our business operations, investment returns, and profitability could be adversely impacted by inadequate performance of third-party relationships. We are dependent on certain third-party relationships to maintain essential business operations. These services include, but are not limited to, information technology infrastructure, application systems support, mutual fund and shareholder accounting services, transfer agent and cash management services, custodial services, records storage management, backup tape management, security pricing services, medical information, payroll, and employee benefit programs. In addition, we maintain contractual relationships with certain investment advisory and investment management firms to leverage their expertise. These firms manage select investments or portions of portfolios under sub-advisory agreements. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to such third parties or us. An interruption in our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties or any material delay or inability to deliver essential services could materially affect our business operations and, potentially, adversely affect our profitability. The independent trustees of our mutual funds and closed-end funds, intermediary program sponsors, managed account clients and institutional asset management clients could terminate their contracts with us. This would reduce our investment management fee revenues. Each of the mutual funds and closed-end funds for which PXP acts as investment advisor or sub-advisor is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and is governed by a board of trustees or board of directors. Each fund’s board has the duty of deciding annually whether to renew the contract under which PXP manages the fund. Board members have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the shareholders of their funds. Either the board members or, in limited circumstances, the shareholders may terminate an advisory contract with PXP and move the assets to another investment advisor. The board members also may deem it to be in the best interests of a fund’s shareholders to make other decisions adverse to us, such as reducing the compensation paid to PXP or imposing restrictions on PXP’s management of the fund. 18 Our asset management agreements with intermediary program sponsors (who “wrap,” or make available, our investment products within the management agreements they have with their own clients), direct managed account clients and institutional clients are generally terminable by these sponsors and clients upon short notice without penalty. As a result, there would be little impediment to these sponsors or clients terminating our agreements if they became dissatisfied with our performance. The termination of any of the above agreements relating to a material portion of assets under management would adversely affect our investment management fee revenues and could require us to take a charge to earnings as a result of the impairment of the goodwill or intangible assets associated with our asset managers. We might be unable to attract or retain personnel who are key to our business. The success of our business is dependent to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition in the job market for professionals such as securities analysts, portfolio managers, sales personnel and actuaries is generally intense. In general, our employees are not subject to employment contracts or non-compete agreements. Any inability to retain our key employees, or attract and retain additional qualified employees, could have a negative impact on us. Poor relative investment performance of some of our equity asset management strategies has led to material redemptions which have reduced assets under management and revenues. We could have continued underperformance and outflows. In the recent past, some of our assets under management have underperformed against their respective three-year benchmarks. Partly as a result, our asset management business experienced net outflows of $4.0 billion during 2006. This poor relative performance could continue, which could result in lower assets under management and lower revenues. Goodwill or intangible assets associated with our asset management business could become impaired requiring a charge to earnings in the event of significant market declines, net outflows of assets, or losses of investment management contracts. As of December 31, 2006, our asset management business had $691.8 million in goodwill and intangible assets. The amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet is supported by the assets under management and the related revenues of the business. It might be necessary to recognize an impairment of these assets if we experience: · a drop in assets under management due to a significant market decline or continued outflows such as in 2006 when we had net outflows of $4.0 billion; · the termination of a material investment management contract, such as with one of our mutual funds; or · material outflows if clients opt to withdraw their funds following the departure of a key employee. If required, the recognition of a material impairment of these assets could lead to downgrades in our credit ratings or in our financial strength ratings. We face strong competition in our businesses from mutual fund companies, banks, asset management firms and other insurance companies. This competition could impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability. We face strong competition in each of our businesses, comprising life insurance, annuities and asset management. We believe that our ability to compete is based on a number of factors, including product features, investment performance, service, price, distribution capabilities, scale, commission structure, name recognition and financial strength ratings. While there is no single company that we identify as a dominant competitor in our business overall, our actual and potential competitors include a large number of mutual fund companies, banks, asset 19 management firms and other insurance companies, many of which have advantages over us in one or more of the above competitive factors. Recent industry consolidation, including acquisitions of insurance and other financial services companies in the U.S. by global companies, has resulted in larger competitors with financial resources, marketing and distribution capabilities and brand identities that are stronger than ours. Larger firms also may be able to offer, due to economies of scale, more competitive pricing than we can. In addition, some of our competitors are regulated differently than we are, which may give them a competitive advantage; for example, many non-insurance company providers of financial services are not subject to the costs and complexities of insurance regulation by multiple states. If we do not compete effectively in this environment, our profitability and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Because we are a holding company with no direct operations, the inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations and pay future dividends. We are a holding company, and we have no direct operations. Our principal asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses depends upon the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us. Payments of dividends and advances or repayment of funds to us by our subsidiaries are restricted by the applicable laws of their respective jurisdictions, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds. Changes in these laws, such as New York State amendments to its statutory reserve requirements, can constrain the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us in sufficient amounts and at times necessary to meet our debt obligations and corporate expenses. We might need to fund deficiencies in our closed block, which would result in a reduction in net income and could result in a reduction in investments in our on-going business. We have allocated assets to our closed block to produce cash flows that, together with additional revenues from the closed block policies, are reasonably expected to support our obligations relating to these policies. Our allocation of assets to the closed block was based on actuarial assumptions about the performance of policies in the closed block and the continuation of the non-guaranteed policyholder dividend scales in effect for 2000, as well as assumptions about the investment earnings the closed block assets will generate over time. Since actual performance is likely to be different from these assumptions, it is possible that the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies included in the closed block will prove insufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies even if the non-guaranteed policyholder dividend scale were to be reduced. If this were to occur, we would have to fund the resulting shortfall from assets outside of the closed block, which could adversely affect our profitability. Changes in tax laws may decrease sales and profitability of products. Under current federal and state income tax law, certain products we offer, primarily life insurance and annuities, receive favorable tax treatment. This favorable treatment may give certain of our products a competitive advantage over noninsurance products. Congress from time to time considers legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance and annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of our products making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning. 20 Potential changes in federal and state regulation may increase our business costs and required capital levels, which could adversely affect our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Moreover, they are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, including foreign regulators, state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange, the National Association of Securities Dealers, the U.S. Department of Justice, and state attorneys general, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may, even absent any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business. State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and licensed. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: · licensing companies and agents to transact business; · calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; · mandating certain insurance benefits; regulating certain premium rates; reviewing and approving policy forms; · regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; · establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; · fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; · approving changes in control of insurance companies; · restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; · and regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Our asset management operations are also subject to extensive regulation in the various jurisdictions where they operate. These regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory clients and generally grant supervisory authorities broad administrative powers. Changes in all of these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Compliance with these laws and regulations is also time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance costs and other expenses of doing business, thus having an adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could result in financial losses or harm to our businesses. We are regularly involved in litigation and arbitration, both as a defendant and as a plaintiff. For example, in the last few years we have been involved in disputes relating to certain portions of our discontinued group accident and health reinsurance business. In addition, various regulatory bodies regularly make inquiries of us and, from 21 time to time, conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws, securities laws, and laws governing the activities of broker-dealers. Recently, there has been a significant increase in federal and state regulatory activity relating to financial services companies, with a number of recent regulatory inquiries focusing on late-trading, market timing and valuation issues. Financial services companies have also been the subject of broad industry inquiries by state regulators and attorneys general which do not appear to be company-specific. We have been the subject of market timing and distribution practice inquiries in the past, and we continue to cooperate with the applicable regulatory authorities in these matters. While no regulatory authority has ever taken action against us with regard to these inquiries, we may be subject to further related or unrelated inquiries or actions in the future. It is not feasible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all legal or regulatory proceedings or to provide reasonable ranges of potential losses. We believe that the outcomes of our litigation and regulatory matters are not likely, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. However, given the large or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation and regulatory matters, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of December 31, 2006, the Company had no unresolved SEC staff comments regarding its periodic or current reports. 