Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to increase sales of RECOTHROM® recombinant human thrombin or to successfully develop and commercialize product candidates in our pipeline, we will not meet our financial goals. 24 Table of Contents Our near-term financial success is highly dependent on our ability to increase revenue from the commercialization of RECOTHROM. The successful commercialization of RECOTHROM will depend on many factors, including the following: • the effectiveness of our product differentiation, marketing, promotion, distribution, sales and pricing strategies and programs, and those of our competitors; • our ability to maintain effective promotional materials that are acceptable to regulatory officials; • product demand within the medical community; • our ability to penetrate the existing thrombin market and develop complementary products; • the introduction of new alternative topical hemostats that may compete with RECOTHROM and offer desirable features or benefits; • new data or adverse event information relating to RECOTHROM or any similar products and any resulting regulatory action; • clinical practice or other guidelines regarding topical hemostats published by professional organizations or specialty groups; • successfully maintaining a product supply chain to meet demand; • successfully maintaining a commercial infrastructure, including a sales force; and • the ability to gain formulary acceptance and favorable formulary positioning in a timely fashion or at all. Part of our business strategy involves developing and commercializing new products, such as PEG-IFN-lambda, IL-21 and IL-31 monoclonal antibody (IL-31 mAb), at times through entry into strategic alliances and collaborations. This part of our strategy requires us or our collaborators to conduct clinical trials to support approval of these new products. The success of this component of our strategy will depend on the outcome of these clinical trials, the success of our collaborators, the content and timing of our submissions to regulatory authorities and whether and when those authorities determine to grant approvals. The other element of our business strategy is maximizing the commercial opportunity for RECOTHROM. If we fail to significantly increase sales of RECOTHROM, our ability to successfully complete development and commercialization activities for our other product candidates, and our ability to become profitable in the future, will be adversely affected. We anticipate incurring additional losses and may not achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $805.2 million. We expect to continue to incur significant losses over the next several years, and we may never become profitable. Although we began generating RECOTHROM sales revenue in 2008, it will be a number of years before we generate revenues from sales of other product candidates, if ever. Our revenues from the sales of RECOTHROM and existing collaborative and licensing arrangements are currently insufficient to fund our operating expenses, and we may never generate revenues sufficient to fund these expenses. In addition, we will continue to incur substantial expenses relating to our product development and commercialization efforts. The development and commercialization of our product candidates will require significant further research, development, testing, regulatory approvals and sales and marketing activities. We will continue to incur substantial operating losses for at least the near term as we continue to support the commercialization of RECOTHROM and as a result of our development activities for the product candidates in our development pipeline. These losses have had and will have an adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity (deficit) and working capital. Even if we become profitable in the future, we may not remain profitable. 25 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain or generate the capital we need to fund our operations, we will be unable to continue operations. Our business does not currently generate the cash needed to finance our operations, and we do not expect it to do so in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will continue to expend substantial funds on the development of our product candidates, and the amount of these expenditures may increase in the future. We expect to seek additional funding through public or private financings, including equity financings, credit facilities, or through other arrangements, including collaborative and licensing arrangements. Poor financial results, including sales of RECOTHROM being less than expected, unanticipated expenses or unanticipated opportunities that require financial commitments could give rise to additional financing requirements or require us to obtain additional financing sooner than we expect. However, financing may be unavailable when we need it or may be unavailable on acceptable terms, especially in light of the current global economic conditions. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders will be diluted, and these securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If we are unable to raise additional funds when we need them, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate expenditures for some of our development or commercial programs. We may also be required to grant rights to third parties to develop and commercialize products and product candidates that we would prefer to develop and commercialize ourselves, and such rights may be granted on terms that are not favorable to us. If we were required to grant such rights, the ultimate value of these products or product candidates to us would be reduced. In addition, if our cash and cash equivalents drop below specified levels it may result in the loss of co-promotion rights and U.S. patent rights under our agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb relating to PEG-IFN-lambda and constitute an event of default under our June 28, 2008 Facility Agreement with Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P., Deerfield Private Design International, L.P. and Deerfield ZG Corporation, which would result in the principal and accrued and unpaid interest on the loans made under the agreement to become immediately due and payable. Additionally, a substantial portion of our operating expenses are funded through our collaborative agreements with third parties. For example, as part of the co-development/co-promotion and license agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb for PEG-IFN-lambda, we received $200.0 million in 2009. To the extent that we lose collaborative partners for a program or a portion of a program that we do not fund internally, or to the extent that we do not receive the funding that we expect from our collaborative agreements, unless we are able to obtain alternative sources of funding, we would be delayed in or unable to continue developing product candidates under the affected program. In addition, to the extent that funding is provided by a collaborator for non-program-specific uses, the loss of significant amounts of collaborative funding could result in the delay, reduction or termination of additional research and development programs, a reduction in capital expenditures or business development and other operating activities, or any combination of these measures, which would harm our business. Subject to the terms of the relevant agreement, each collaborator has the right to terminate its obligation to provide research funding. We are focused on a limited number of product candidates, and adverse developments with respect to one or more of those candidates could harm our business. Our business is focused on a limited number of product candidates. We have discontinued discovery research activities in oncology and immunology and have retained only those research capabilities necessary to support the continued development of PEG-IFN-lambda, IL-21, and our IL-31 mAb product candidate. Our focus on a limited number of internal product candidates means that adverse developments with respect to one or more of these candidates could have a more significant adverse impact on our business than if we maintained a broader portfolio of product candidates. One of our limited number of internal product candidates relates to therapeutic antibodies where we have limited experience and where we may be unsuccessful developing or commercializing a product. One of our internal product candidates, the IL-31 mAb, involves therapeutic antibody technology, an area where we have limited experience and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to develop and commercialize this 26 Table of Contents product candidate. Moreover, we may be unsuccessful in obtaining adequate, if any, patent coverage for our discoveries and therapeutic antibody products. In addition, third parties may own key technology or dominating patents that may prevent us from developing, manufacturing or commercializing therapeutic antibodies. For example, we are aware of broad patents owned by others relating to the discovery, development, manufacture, use and sale of recombinant humanized antibodies, recombinant humanized single chain antibodies, recombinant human antibodies, and recombinant human single chain antibodies and other technologies. Our IL-31 mAb product candidate may use or include such technologies. While we are investigating and contemplating entering into agreements with certain third parties in order to gain access to their technology, we have no assurance that a license to a particular technology will be available and such third parties may not be willing to grant licenses to the technology. We may be unable to obtain necessary rights to key technologies needed for the discovery, development, production or commercialization of therapeutic antibodies through licensing agreements on terms attractive to us, if at all. If these licenses are not obtained, we might be prevented from developing IL-31 monoclonal antibodies. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to obtain needed licenses, our ability to develop and commercialize our IL-31 mAb product candidate could be limited. Any patent infringement or other legal claims that might be brought against us may cause us to incur significant expenses, enjoin our development or commercialization of such products, divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns and, if successfully asserted against us, require us to pay substantial damages. We are subject to extensive and rigorous governmental regulation including the requirement of approval before our products may be lawfully marketed. Both before and after the approval or our product and product candidates, we, our product, our product candidates, our operations, our facilities, our suppliers, and our contract manufacturers, contract research organizations, and contract testing laboratories are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries, with regulations differing from country to country. In the United States, the FDA regulates, among other things, the pre-clinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, potency, labeling, storage, record keeping, quality systems, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of therapeutic products. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, one or more of the following actions: notices of violation, untitled letters, warning letters, fines and other monetary penalties, unanticipated expenditures, delays in approval or refusal to approve a product candidate; product recall or seizure; interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. We or the FDA, or an institutional review board, may suspend or terminate human clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Except for RECOTHROM, none of our product candidates has been approved for sale in the United States. Our product candidates, PEG-IFN-lambda, IL-21, IL-31 mAb, or any subsequent product candidates cannot be lawfully marketed in the United States without FDA approval. Any failure to receive the marketing approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates could harm our business. The regulatory review and approval process of governmental authorities, which includes the need to conduct nonclinical studies and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and regulatory standards may change during the development of a particular product candidate. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the United States or other countries until we have received requisite regulatory approvals. For example, securing FDA approval requires the submission of a new drug approval (NDA) or biologics license approval (BLA) application to the FDA. The approval application must include extensive nonclinical and clinical data and supporting information to establish the product candidate’s safety and effectiveness for each indication. The approval application must also include significant information regarding the chemistry, manufacturing and controls for the product. The FDA review process typically takes many years to complete and approval is never guaranteed. If a product is approved, FDA may limit the indications for which the product may be marketed, require extensive warnings on the product labeling, impose restricted distribution programs, require expedited reporting of certain adverse events, or require costly ongoing requirements for post- 27 Table of Contents marketing clinical studies and surveillance or other risk management measures to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product candidate. Markets outside of the United States also have requirements for approval of drug candidates with which we must comply prior to marketing. Obtaining regulatory approval for marketing of a product candidate in one country does not ensure we will be able to obtain regulatory approval in other countries but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in other countries. Also, any regulatory approval of any of our products or product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn. The FDA may grant orphan drug designation to a drug intended to treat a “rare disease or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 persons in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an application for marketing authorization. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. If a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, which means the FDA may not approve any other application to market the same drug for the same indication for a period of seven years, except in limited circumstances, such as the showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan exclusivity. Also, competitors may receive approval of other different drugs or biologics for the indications for which the orphan product has exclusivity. FDA has increased its attention to product safety concerns in light of recent high profile safety issues with certain drug products, in the United States. Moreover, heightened Congressional scrutiny on the adequacy of the FDA’s drug approval process and the agency’s efforts to assure the safety of marketed drugs has resulted in proposed agency initiatives and new legislation addressing drug safety issues. If adopted, any new legislation or agency initiatives could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, as well as increased costs to assure compliance with any new post-approval regulatory requirements. Any of these restrictions or requirements could force us to conduct costly studies. In addition, we, our suppliers, our operations, our facilities, and our contract manufacturers, our contract research organizations, and our contract testing laboratories are required to comply with extensive FDA requirements both before and after approval of our products. For example, we are required to report certain adverse reactions and production problems, if any, to FDA, and to comply with certain requirements concerning advertising and promotion for our products. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”) regulations after approval, and the FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP. Accordingly, we and others with whom we work must continue to expend time, money, and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing, production, and quality control. In addition, discovery of safety issues may result in changes in labeling or restrictions on a product manufacturer or BLA holder, including removal of the product from the market. Our ability to differentiate RECOTHROM in the marketplace may be limited if FDA challenges our promotional and marketing materials. FDA has authority to regulate advertising and promotional labeling for RECOTHROM under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and implementing regulations. In general, that authority requires advertising and promotional labeling to be truthful and not misleading, and marketed only for the approved indications. FDA routinely provides its interpretations of that authority in informal communications and also in more formal communications such as untitled letters or warning letters, and although such communications are not final agency decisions, companies may decide not to contest the agency’s interpretations so as to avoid disputes with FDA, even if they believe the claims to be truthful, not misleading and otherwise lawful. FDA has generally given close scrutiny to claims making a comparison of the attributes of one product to another. We have made such claims for RECOTHROM as a means of differentiating RECOTHROM from competitive products containing bovine thrombin, and are aware that King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has repeatedly complained to FDA 28 Table of Contents about those claims. In April 2008, we received an untitled letter from FDA identifying concerns with certain comparative statements contained in a press release relating to antibody formation for RECOTHROM and bovine thrombin. We provided our response to the FDA and received a letter from the FDA confirming that the matter was closed in May 2008. Subsequently, in its response filed in October 2009 to a Citizen Petition we filed with FDA in August 2009 requesting that FDA remove King’s bovine thrombin product from the market in the interest of patient safety, King identified comparative claims from our promotional materials that it believes are false and misleading. We believe our claims, including those challenged by King, are truthful, not misleading, and otherwise lawful, but it is possible that the FDA or other regulatory authorities may disagree with our conclusion. If FDA or other regulatory authorities were to challenge our promotional materials or activities, and if we were to elect not to contest such a challenge or were unable to resolve it in a satisfactory manner, our ability to differentiate RECOTHROM in the marketplace could be adversely affected. Our success with RECOTHROM will depend on our ability to effectively compete with large and well established competitors who have greater resources and broader product lines than we do. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical field is extremely competitive, and RECOTHROM faces substantial competition from alternative topical hemostats. In the United States, stand-alone plasma-derived thrombin products on the market include Thrombin-JMI, a bovine plasma-derived thrombin sold by King, and Evithrom, a pooled human plasma-derived thrombin sold by Ethicon, Inc., a division of Johnson & Johnson. In addition, Baxter International, Inc. markets the GELFOAM Plus Hemostasis Kit, which is Pfizer Inc.’s GELFOAM sterile sponge co-packaged with human plasma-derived thrombin. Further, a number of companies, including Johnson & Johnson and Baxter International, Inc., currently market other hemostatic agents that may compete with RECOTHROM, including passive agents such as gelatin and collagen pads and flowable hemostats, as well as fibrin sealants and tissue glues. Many of these alternative hemostatic agents are relatively inexpensive and have been widely used for many years. Consequently, physicians and hospital formulary decision-makers may be hesitant to adopt RECOTHROM. Several companies, some of which have substantial experience and resources, have products or are developing product candidates in the areas we have targeted for our product candidates. For our product candidates in development, we face competition from other entities involved in the research and development of therapeutic proteins, antibody products and pharmaceuticals, including Human Genome Sciences, Inc., Biolex Therapeutics, Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Plexxikon Inc., and Genentech, Inc., among others. A number of our largest competitors are pursuing the development or marketing of pharmaceuticals that address the same diseases that we are pursuing, and it is possible that the number of companies seeking to develop products and therapies for these diseases will increase. We also face competition from entities developing other types of products related to particular diseases or medical conditions, including other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. Furthermore, our potential products, if approved and commercialized, may compete against well-established therapeutic protein-based products or well-established antibody products, many of which may be currently reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health insurers and health maintenance organizations. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater research, product development and commercial capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may: • succeed in developing therapeutic protein-based products or alternative therapies, earlier than we do; • obtain approvals for products from the FDA or other regulatory agencies more rapidly than we do; 29 Table of Contents • obtain patents that block or otherwise inhibit our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates; • develop treatments or cures that are safer, more effective, convenient or economical than those we propose to develop; • devote greater resources to marketing or selling their products; • introduce products that make the continued development of our potential products uneconomical; • withstand price competition more successfully than we can; • negotiate more favorable terms with third-party collaborators, licensees, group purchasing organizations and other large customers; and • take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities more readily than we can. Because of these and other potential disadvantages, we may be unable to compete effectively with these competitors. All of our product candidates face competition and we expect that competition in our industry will continue to be intense. Clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates, which could delay, limit or prevent their regulatory approval. Clinical trials involving PEG-IFN-lambda, IL-21, IL-31 mAb or any subsequent product candidates may reveal that those candidates are ineffective, are insufficiently effective given their safety profile, have unacceptable toxicity or safety profiles or have other unacceptable side effects. In addition, data obtained from tests and trials are susceptible to varying interpretations and FDA or other regulatory authorities may interpret the results of our preclinical studies or clinical trials less favorably than we do, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Likewise, the results of preliminary studies do not predict clinical success, and larger and later-stage clinical trials may not produce the same results as earlier-stage trials. Frequently, product candidates that have shown promising results in early clinical trials have subsequently suffered significant setbacks in later clinical trials. Similarly, clinical trial results may vary between different arms of a clinical trial for reasons that we cannot adequately explain. In addition, the design of a clinical trial can determine whether its results will support approval of a product and flaws in the design of a clinical trial may not become apparent until the clinical trial is well advanced. We have limited experience in designing clinical trials that have supported the approval of a product and may be unable to do so successfully. Further, clinical trials of potential products often reveal that it is not practical or feasible to continue development efforts. The failure to provide clinical and preclinical data that are adequate to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities that our product candidates are safe and effective for their proposed use will delay, limit or prevent approval and will prevent us from marketing those products. If we or others identify previously unknown side effects or safety concerns for RECOTHROM our business could be harmed. If we or others identify previously unknown side effects, safety concerns, for RECOTHROM or any products perceived to be similar to RECOTHROM, then in any of these circumstances: • sales of RECOTHROM may decrease significantly; • regulatory approvals for RECOTHROM may be restricted or withdrawn; • we may decide to, or be required to, initiate a recall or send product warning letters to physicians, pharmacists and hospitals; • reformulation of the product, additional preclinical or clinical studies, changes in labeling or changes to or re-approvals of manufacturing facilities may be required; 30 Table of Contents • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • government investigations and lawsuits, and private party lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us. Any of the above occurrences could harm or prevent sales of RECOTHROM, increase our expenses and impair our ability to successfully commercialize RECOTHROM. Furthermore, now that RECOTHROM is approved in the United States, it is being used in a wider population and in a less rigorously controlled fashion than in clinical studies. It is expected that some patients exposed to RECOTHROM will become sick or die suddenly, that in some or even many of these cases there will not be sufficient information available to rule out RECOTHROM as a contributing factor or cause of sickness or mortality, and that safety reporting from physicians or from us to regulatory authorities may link RECOTHROM to death or other serious adverse effects. As a result, regulatory authorities, healthcare practitioners, third-party payers or patients may perceive or conclude that the use of RECOTHROM is associated with death or other serious adverse effects, any of which could mean that our ability to commercialize RECOTHROM could be adversely affected and our business could be impaired. We may be required to defend lawsuits and pay damages in connection with alleged or actual harm caused by our products and product candidates. The design, testing, manufacture and sale of therapeutic products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity, even if the claims arise from use of the product in a manner inconsistent with label or other instructions. In addition, RECOTHROM is and will be used on patients undergoing surgery, where there are significant risks to patients, and adverse outcomes in patients exposed to RECOTHROM could result in lawsuits. If any of these potential lawsuits against us were to be successful, we may incur significant costs and could be required to make significant modifications to our business. Even if such lawsuits are without merit or otherwise unsuccessful, they could cause adverse publicity, divert management attention and be costly to respond to, and, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we maintain product liability and general insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to cover product liability or other claims. We do not know if we will be able to maintain existing or obtain additional product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. This type of insurance is expensive and may in the future be unavailable on acceptable terms, if at all. Any product liability claims, whether or not ultimately successful, could have a negative effect on our reputation, stock price, ability to penetrate the market and sell our products and our financial condition and results. Guidelines, recommendations, codes and other literature published by various organizations, including competitors, may affect our ability to effectively promote and sell RECOTHROM. Various professional societies, industry trade associations, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations periodically publish guidelines, codes, recommendations and other literature to the healthcare and patient communities. These organizations have in the past made recommendations about RECOTHROM or products that compete with RECOTHROM, such as the treatment guidelines of the Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Competitors may also conduct and publish the results of clinical trials or support the conduct and publishing of other reviews or analyses aimed at diminishing concerns about their own products or indicating advantages over RECOTHROM. We have no control over the content of many of these publications, even those for which we may provide some form of financial support. For example, from time to time, we make medical education grants to organizations that in some cases result in a publication. The content of these publications or independent medical education programs may not be favorable to RECOTHROM and may negatively impact our ability to penetrate the market. 31 Table of Contents Pending litigation by our primary competitor for RECOTHROM could have an adverse impact on our business. King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is our primary competitor in the stand-alone thrombin market, and they have been aggressive in defending their leading position in that market. In November 2009, King and affiliated entities filed a lawsuit against us in federal district court in Greeneville, Tennessee (near King’s headquarters in Bristol, Tennessee), seeking to prevent us from making certain claims relating to Thrombin-JMI and RECOTHROM and from making certain comparative claims regarding King’s products and our RECOTHROM product. King alleges that we have engaged in unfair competition, false advertising, trademark infringement, and related claims under federal law and Tennessee state law. King also filed motions with the District Court seeking temporary restraining orders and preliminary injunctive relief. On December 10, 2009, the judge denied King’s motions for a preliminary injunction. However, the lawsuit continues and will likely not be resolved for some time. In the lawsuit, King is seeking a permanent injunction, as well as monetary damages, and if they ultimately prevail in the litigation our business could be harmed. Further, King’s litigation efforts, even if they are not successful, will require significant management time and attention, potentially diverting focus from direct efforts to secure additional customers for RECOTHROM. Our patents and patent applications, including those relating to RECOTHROM, may not result in meaningful protection against competitors, provide us with any competitive advantage, or provide adequate protection or rights for new discoveries, and our competitors may commercialize the discoveries we patent or attempt to patent. While we hold patents to the manufacture of RECOTHROM, our composition of matter patent protection is limited to a key intermediate in the production of recombinant thrombin. Accordingly, we may be unable to prevent other parties from developing alternate methods of manufacturing recombinant thrombin or from selling recombinant thrombin. If a third party sold recombinant thrombin manufactured using an alternate method of manufacturing, it could impair our business. In addition, after FDA approval of RECOTHROM, we filed an application for patent term extension of our relevant U.S. patents, but thus far we have not received confirmation from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that the extension will be granted to the extent we requested, or at all. If we are unable to obtain the requested term extension of our RECOTHROM patents, it could limit our ability to stop competitors and could impair our business. Additionally, we are aware of certain U.S. and European patents and patent applications held by third parties relating to thrombin and to methods of manufacture of thrombin and other recombinant proteins. Based on our analyses of these patents, we believe that we do not and will not infringe these patents and that many of the claims of these patents are invalid or unenforceable; however, the patent holders, courts or other governmental or legal entities may conclude that our products, processes or actions in developing, manufacturing or selling RECOTHROM do infringe one or more valid and enforceable claims of these patents. We may seek licenses to such patents if, in our judgment, such licenses are needed. If any licenses are required, we may be unable to obtain any such licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. If these licenses are not obtained, we might be prevented from selling RECOTHROM or from using certain of our technologies for the manufacture of RECOTHROM. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require may harm our business. We own or hold exclusive rights to many issued U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications related to the development and commercialization of RECOTHROM and our product candidates. These patents and applications cover composition-of-matter for genes, proteins, and antibodies, medical indications, methods of use, methods of making, formulations, technologies and other inventions related to therapeutic proteins and antibodies. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and product candidates in the United States and other countries. Although we diligently seek to identify and protect our important discoveries and inventions, we may fail to file timely patent applications. We cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Our pending and future patent applications covering products and product candidates may not meet the statutory requirements for patentability, meaning that our applications may 32 Table of Contents not result in the issuance of any patents, and, if issued, such patents may not be valid or enforceable. Our rights under any patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against competitive products or otherwise cover commercially valuable products or processes. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy for eighteen months after the filing of the applications, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be sure that the inventors of subject matter covered by our patents and patent applications were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications for these inventions. Our patents may not provide us with any competitive advantage. Although we have a number of issued patents, the discoveries or technologies covered by these patents may not have any value. These issued patents may not provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors, nor may they provide all rights necessary to commercialize our products or product candidates. In addition, we may be unable or not allowed to obtain patent term extension or restoration on patents covering our products in a manner that would provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors. Other parties may have a dominating or blocking patent position covering a composition of matter, or methods of making or using our products or product candidates. In addition, other parties may be able to design around our issued patents or independently develop products having attributes or uses similar or identical to our patented product candidates. The business model of some companies is to “design around” patented marketed protein-based products by altering the amino acid sequence of the marketed product, thereby avoiding the patent, but maintaining functional equivalence. Similarly, it may be easier to develop equivalent versions of monoclonal antibodies and competitive soluble receptors, or receptor antibodies than to develop equivalent versions of the proteins with which they interact because there is often more than one antibody or receptor that can have the same therapeutic effect. Consequently, any of our existing or future patents that cover monoclonal antibodies or soluble receptors may not provide any meaningful protection against competitors. In addition, other parties may discover uses for genes, proteins or antibodies that are different from the uses described in our patents, and these other uses may be separately patentable. If another party holds a patent on the use of a gene, protein or antibody, then even if we hold the patent covering the composition of matter of the gene, protein or antibody itself, that party might prevent us from promoting and selling any product directed to such use. Also, other parties may have patents covering the composition of matter of genes or proteins for which we have patents covering only methods of use or methods of manufacture. Furthermore, our patents on recombinant proteins or their precursors or methods of manufacturing such proteins, such as our patents covering the precursor to RECOTHROM and its method of manufacture, may not prevent competitors from developing other precursors or methods of manufacturing these proteins. Third parties may infringe our patents and challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents. Competitors and other third parties may infringe our patents, or use inventions described in our patent applications. It may be difficult or impossible for us to police third party activities and detect such infringement. For example, we may be unable to discover a competitor’s manufacturing process to determine whether it infringes patent claims to a method of manufacture. Patent litigation is very expensive and time-consuming and is a distraction to management and personnel who are needed to supply evidence and support to litigation efforts. Enforcing our patents against third parties may require significant expenditures regardless of outcome. We may incur substantial expenditures in such patent litigation and the outcome of any lawsuit is uncertain. Additionally, challenges raised in patent infringement litigation initiated by us or by third parties may result in determinations that our patents have not been infringed or that they are invalid, unenforceable or otherwise subject to limitations. Consequently, third parties, including licensees, may be able to use the discoveries or technologies claimed or described in our patents without paying licensing fees or royalties to us, which could diminish the value of our intellectual property. 33 Table of Contents Moreover, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity or enforceability. Third parties, including our competitors and licensees, may initiate proceedings to limit the scope, validity or enforceability of our patents, including but not limited to inter-partes re-examination proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, opposition proceedings in patent authorities outside of the United States, declaratory judgment proceedings in U.S. courts, or in the event a third party independently makes an invention similar to ours, interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention. Likewise, we may initiate inter-partes proceedings to challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of third-party patents. The outcome of any such proceeding is uncertain and could result in judicial determinations that our patents are invalid, limited in scope, not infringed, or unenforceable, which would impair our business. Participating in such proceedings or other challenges, whether initiated by us or by third parties may require significant expenditures and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns, which may also impair our business. Patent protection for protein-based therapeutic products and other biotechnology inventions is subject to a great deal of uncertainty, and if patent laws or the interpretation of patent laws change, our competitors may be able to develop and commercialize products based on our discoveries. Patent protection for protein-based therapeutic products is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. In recent years, there have been significant changes in patent law, including the legal standards that govern the scope of protein and biotechnology patents. Standards for patentability of full-length and partial genes, and their corresponding proteins, are changing. Court decisions have made it more difficult to obtain patents, by making it more difficult to satisfy the requirements of written description, enablement, utility and non-obviousness, have decreased the availability of injunctions against infringers, have decreased the likelihood of proving willfulness, and have increased the likelihood of challenging the validity of a patent through a declaratory judgment action. Taken together, these decisions make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain, license and enforce our patents. In addition, in recent years, several members of the U.S. Congress have made numerous proposals to change the patent statute. These proposals include measures that, among other things, would expand the ability of third parties to oppose U.S. patents, introduce the “first to file” standard to the U.S. patent system, and limit damages an infringer is required to pay. If the patent statute is changed, the scope, validity and enforceability of our patents may be decreased. There also have been, and continue to be, policy discussions concerning the scope of patent protection awarded to biotechnology inventions. Social and political opposition to patents on genes and proteins may lead to narrower patent protection, or narrower claim interpretation, for genes, their corresponding proteins and inventions related to their use, formulation and manufacture. Patent protection relating to biotechnology products is also subject to a great deal of uncertainty outside the United States, and patent laws are evolving and undergoing revision in many countries. Changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws worldwide may result in our inability to obtain or enforce patents, and may allow others to use our discoveries to develop and commercialize competitive products, which would impair our business. We may be subject to patent infringement claims, which could result in substantial costs and liability and prevent us from commercializing our products and product candidates. Third parties may claim that our products or product candidates, or processes or related technologies infringe their patents. The risk of infringement claims filed against us is likely to increase as we commercialize products or move product candidates closer to commercialization. Furthermore, we may not have identified or analyzed all U.S. and foreign patents that pose a risk of our infringement. Any patent infringement or other legal claims that might be brought against us may cause us to incur significant expenses, divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns and, if successfully asserted against us, require us to pay substantial damages. In addition, as a result of a patent infringement suit, we may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling products or product 34 Table of Contents candidates that are claimed to infringe a third party’s patent unless that party grants us rights to use its intellectual property. We may be unable to obtain these rights on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain rights to a third party’s patented intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, which would allow our competitors to obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations, which could harm our business. We may be unable to protect our unpatented proprietary technology and information. In addition to our patented intellectual property, we also rely on trade secrets and confidential information. We may be unable to effectively protect our rights to such proprietary technology or information. Other parties may independently develop or gain access to equivalent technologies or information and disclose it for others to use. Disputes may arise about inventorship and corresponding rights to know-how and inventions resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by us and our corporate partners, licensees, scientific and academic collaborators and consultants. In addition, confidentiality agreements and material transfer agreements we have entered into with these parties and with employees and advisors may not provide effective protection of our proprietary technology or information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, may not provide adequate remedies. We rely to a significant extent, and expect to continue to rely, on obtaining and maintaining third-party relationships to assist us in developing and commercializing our product candidates. We have historically entered into collaboration arrangements with partners to co-develop and co-commercialize products and expect to continue to pursue similar opportunities. To be successful, we must identify and attract partners whose competencies and priorities complement ours. We must enter into collaboration agreements on terms beneficial to us and integrate and coordinate their processes, resources and capabilities with our own on a continuing basis. We may be unsuccessful in entering into collaboration agreements with acceptable partners or negotiating favorable terms in these agreements or maintaining such relationships so as to benefit from them over time. Also, we may be unsuccessful in integrating the resources, processes, capabilities or priorities of these collaborators on a continuing basis. In addition, our collaborators may prove difficult to work with or less skilled than we expected. If we are unsuccessful in our collaborative efforts, our ability to develop and market our product candidates could be limited. In January 2009, we entered into a co-development/co-promotion and license agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb, under which we and Bristol-Myers Squibb will co-develop PEG-IFN-lambda and Bristol-Myers Squibb will be solely responsible for commercializing PEG-IFN-lambda outside of the United States. While we believe that we will be able to continue working effectively with our counterparts at Bristol-Myers Squibb, we have limited experience with them and are unable to accurately predict our ultimate ability to collaborate with them. Collaboration arrangements require close and frequent communications between several different teams within the respective companies, technology transfer, and in general a collaborative sharing of responsibilities for clinical studies and all other development activities. Difficulties in collaboration arrangements could result in lower than expected revenue, delays in development, loss of market opportunities, and significant deterioration in the value of the related product candidate and our company. With the termination of the co-promotion arrangement with Bayer HealthCare as of the end of 2009, we are solely responsible for commercialization of RECOTHROM in the United States, and we have limited experience with respect to commercial activities. Bayer HealthCare’s active participation in the promotion of RECOTHROM in the United States ended as of December 31, 2009, and we are now solely responsible for all sales and marketing activities for RECOTHROM in the United States. Our commercial organization was formed only within the past few years, and we are still 35 Table of Contents developing capabilities in some key areas. In order to compensate for the loss of the Bayer HealthCare promotional effort, we will need to add additional personnel, and our ability to do so on a timely basis and to rapidly integrate the new personnel into our existing organization is uncertain. Accordingly, while we expect to be able to manage the transition effectively, it is possible that it could take some time before we have a fully effective and optimal sales organization in place, and it is possible that some customer relationships for which Bayer HealthCare was primarily responsible could be negatively impacted. We rely on contract suppliers to manufacture commercial supplies of RECOTHROM and clinical material for our product candidates and, therefore, we may be unable to effectively control production or obtain adequate supplies, particularly in situations where we rely on a sole source of supply, which could cause delays in product manufacturing, subject us to product shortages or reduce product sales. We rely and expect to continue to rely on contract manufacturers and suppliers over whom we exercise little control and who may not always be motivated to do what is in our best interests. The manufacture and delivery of sufficient quantities of pharmaceutical products is a time-consuming and complex process. In order to successfully commercialize our products, including RECOTHROM, and continue to develop our product candidates, including PEG-IFN-lambda, we need to contract or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing. For example, we have entered into an agreement with Abbott Laboratories for commercial-scale production of RECOTHROM bulk drug substance and an agreement with Patheon Italia S.p.A., Inc. for fill and finish of the dosage form of RECOTHROM. We have also entered into agreements with several suppliers of critical raw materials, manufacturing aids, and components for RECOTHROM, some of which are located outside the United States. For our PEG-IFN-lambda product candidate, we will rely on our collaborative partner Bristol-Myers Squibb to manufacture supplies for late-stage clinical trials and, if approved, commercial sales. Reliance on contract manufacturers, other vendors and collaborators limits our control regarding many aspects of the manufacturing and delivery processes and therefore exposes us to a variety of significant risks relating to the following, particularly in situations where we rely on a sole-source manufacturer, vendor or other collaborator as with RECOTHROM: • our ability to schedule production with contract suppliers when needed to supply market demand or clinical trials; • reliance on contract suppliers for legal and regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • contract suppliers’ insistence on exclusivity, minimum and/or maximum levels of supply and related restrictions on our ability to increase or decrease supply, including provisions whereby we pay a penalty if we fail to order a minimum amount; • breach of agreements by contract suppliers; and • termination, price increases, or non-renewal of agreements by contract suppliers, based on other business priorities, at times that are costly or inconvenient for us. Moreover, these contract manufacturers must comply with FDA’s cGMP requirements. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance, and the maintenance of records and documentation. One or more of these suppliers may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state, or foreign regulatory requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in, among other things, notices of violation, untitled letters, warning letters, fines and other monetary penalties, unanticipated expenditures, delays in approval or refusal to approve a product, suspension of production, product seizure or recall, interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials, operating restrictions, withdrawal of product approval injunctions, and criminal prosecution. If the safety of any quantities supplied of RECOTHROM or any other product we commercialize that is manufactured by a contract party is compromised due to that party’s failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products, which would harm our business. 36 Table of Contents If any of the circumstances described in these risks occur, our product supply could be interrupted resulting in lost or delayed revenues, delayed clinical trials, and significant increase in production costs and cost of goods. While we seek to negotiate effective remedies in our agreements, we may not have an adequate remedy for all performance-related issues. In particular, terminating a manufacturing arrangement entails significant risks associated with identifying an alternative manufacturer, the length of time it takes for an alternative manufacturer to meet the regulatory requirements and the possibility of litigation arising from any alleged breach. We and the manufacturers of our products rely on suppliers of raw materials used in the production of our products. Some of these materials are available from only one source and others may become available from only one source. In addition, if, for any reason, we are required to engage an additional, second-source or replacement manufacturer or other vendor, the investment of funds and management time could be significant. There are a limited number of manufacturers and other vendors that operate under the FDA’s cGMP regulations capable of manufacturing for us, and we have not established backup manufacturers and suppliers for RECOTHROM or any of our product candidates. Accordingly, if we are unable to maintain third-party manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms, or if we lose a significant supplier used for RECOTHROM or for our other product candidates, we may be unable to market our products, meet certain contractual supply obligations or complete development of our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. For example, under our agreements with Bayer Schering Pharma, we are required to provide Bayer Schering Pharma with RECOTHROM and may be in breach of the agreement if we cannot make the required deliveries on time. In addition, some of the inventions and patents licensed to us were initially developed at universities or other not-for-profit institutions with funding support from an agency of the U.S. government. In accordance with federal law, our licensees or we may be required to manufacture in the United States products covered by those patents, unless we can obtain a waiver from the government on the basis that such domestic manufacture is not commercially feasible. We have not attempted to secure any such waivers from the government, and do not know if they will be sought or available if sought. If we are unable to obtain such waivers, if requested, on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek manufacturing arrangements at higher prices, or on otherwise less favorable terms, than might be available to us in the absence of this domestic manufacturing requirement. We cannot predict whether any of the manufacturers and vendors that we may use will continue to meet our requirements for quality, quantity or timeliness for the manufacture of RECOTHROM, its intermediates or components or for our other product candidates. We may be unable to generate any revenue from product candidates developed by collaborators or licensees. We may be unable to derive any value from product candidates developed by or with collaborators or licensees, including Novo Nordisk, Merck Serono and Bristol-Myers Squibb. Our ability to generate revenues from existing or future collaborations and license arrangements is subject to numerous risks, including: • the possibility that our collaborators or licensees lack sufficient financial, technical or other capabilities to develop these product candidates; • the possibility that our collaborators or licensees choose to scale back or discontinue their development activities due to changes in their strategies, restructuring, mergers or acquisitions or because their view of the commercial market or regulatory landscape in their licensed territory has changed; • the length of time that it takes for our collaborators or licensees to solve technical problems or achieve various clinical development and regulatory approval milestones; • differences in opinion about development, clinical and regulatory strategies and timeframes; • the inability of collaborators or licensees to successfully address any regulatory or technical challenges they may encounter; and 37 Table of Contents • the possibility that these product candidates may not be effective or may prove to have undesirable side effects, unacceptable toxicities or other characteristics that preclude regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. RECOTHROM has not been approved for sale outside of the United States and Canada and we intend to seek new licensing arrangements with one or more third parties, which we will depend on to seek approval for and market and promote RECOTHROM outside the United States. In the United States, RECOTHROM was approved for marketing on the basis of clinical studies showing non-inferiority to bovine plasma-derived thrombin. The only other country where RECOTHROM has been approved is Canada. In December 2009, our then licensee outside the United States, Bayer Schering Pharma, withdrew the Marketing Authorization Application for RECOTHROM in Europe, due to concerns raised by European regulatory authorities regarding the extent to which the application met the standards described in their guidance applicable to approval of fibrin sealant products. The European Medicines Agency will likely require an additional clinical trial using a comparator other than bovine thrombin in order to support the approval of RECOTHROM, especially because bovine plasma-derived thrombin is not currently on the market in Europe. In addition, other foreign regulatory authorities may not be satisfied with the safety and efficacy data submitted in support of the foreign applications, which could result in either non-approval or a requirement of additional clinical trials or further analysis of existing data. Furthermore, as an element of the foreign approval process, the applicable regulatory authority must be satisfied with the processes and facilities for all stages of the manufacture, packaging and distribution of RECOTHROM, which may include physical inspections of many or all relevant facilities. Any conclusion that there are shortcomings in the processes, facilities, quality control or oversight of contract manufacturers, or other quality assurance procedures related to manufacture, packaging and distribution of the drug could result in a significant delay in or failure to receive foreign approval. Effective January 1, 2010, our License and Collaboration Agreement with Bayer Schering Pharma was amended to return to ZymoGenetics all rights to develop and commercialize RECOTHROM in territories outside the United States other than Canada, where Bayer Schering Pharma will commercialize RECOTHROM and pay royalties to ZymoGenetics. No form of thrombin is currently sold in Canada and, therefore, Bayer Schering Pharma will have to create a new market for RECOTHROM, an endeavor in which it may not be successful. We will seek to establish licensing arrangements with one or more third parties to pursue development and approval of RECOTHROM outside the United States and Canada, but our ability to do so on a timely basis on favorable terms is uncertain, if at all. Even if we are able to identify interested third parties and enter into one or more license arrangements in the near future, the ability of any licensee to obtain approval for RECOTHROM in these territories and to successfully commercialize the product, as well as the timing for these activities, is uncertain. Failure to effectively manage the RECOTHROM supply chain could result in inventory shortages, supply interruptions or inventory obsolescence. Our supply chain for RECOTHROM, its intermediates and components is particularly complex and involves a number of third parties on several continents. In addition to coordinating the efforts of these third-party contractors, we must navigate the laws and regulations of multiple jurisdictions, and our failure to do so effectively may negatively impact our business. Failure to adequately manage our supply chain could result in inventory shortages or other supply interruptions that could negatively impact RECOTHROM sales and, consequently, negatively impact product revenue. We have limited expiration dating for RECOTHROM. Consequently, if we are unable to sell at forecasted levels we may have excess RECOTHROM inventory, resulting in inventory obsolescence, increased costs of product sales and ineffective use of our financial resources. 38 Table of Contents Because we will depend on third parties to conduct certain laboratory tests, clinical trials and other critical services, we have limited control and may encounter delays in our efforts to develop product candidates. We commonly rely on third parties to conduct laboratory tests, clinical trials and other critical services for us, especially to the extent clinical trials include sites outside the United States. If we are unable to obtain these services on acceptable terms, we may be unable to complete our product development efforts in a timely manner. Also, to the extent we will rely on third parties for laboratory tests and clinical trials, we will have limited control over these activities or may be unable to manage them appropriately, or may become too dependent on these parties. These third parties may not complete the tests or trials on our schedule, and the tests or trials may be methodologically flawed, may not comply with applicable laws or be otherwise defective. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult. Additionally, it may be difficult to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. We may expand our business through the acquisition of companies or businesses or in-licensing products or product candidates that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We may in the future seek to expand our products and capabilities by acquiring one or more companies or businesses or in-licensing one or more product candidates. Acquisitions and in-licenses involve numerous risks, which may include: • substantial cash expenditures; • dilutive issuances of equity securities; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition; • difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies; • diverting our management’s attention away from other business concerns; • entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; and • potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies or businesses. Historically, we have not expanded our business through acquisition or in-licensing and, therefore, our experience in making acquisitions and in-licensing is limited. Any acquisition or in-license may not result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business or in-licensed product candidate. In addition, our future success could depend in part on our ability to manage the rapid growth associated with some of these acquisitions and in-licenses. We may be unable to make the combination of our business with that of acquired businesses or companies or in-licensed product candidates work or be successful. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or company or in-licensed product candidate may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have the necessary funds or they may be unavailable to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our stock, which could dilute our current shareholders’ ownership interest, or securities convertible into our stock, which could dilute current shareholders’ ownership interest upon conversion. The failure to attract or retain key management or other personnel could decrease our ability to discover, develop and commercialize potential products. We depend on our senior executive officers as well as key scientific, management and other personnel. Only a small number of our key personnel are bound by employment agreements, and those with employment agreements are bound only for a limited period of time. Competition for qualified employees is intense among 39 Table of Contents pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. The loss of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate the highly skilled employees required for our activities, could hinder our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Our restructuring activities in 2009 may place a strain on certain of our remaining personnel, and may have unanticipated effects. Our restructuring in April 2009 resulted in a workforce reduction of approximately 160 employees, and a further restructuring in December 2009 resulted in an additional workforce reduction of approximately 50 employees. Following these workforce reductions, we had approximately 250 employees at our facility in Seattle, Washington. Our restructuring may yield unanticipated consequences such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce. These workforce reductions may place a significant strain on certain of our remaining personnel. As a result, our ability to respond to unexpected challenges may be impaired and we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities. In addition, certain of the terminated employees possess specific knowledge or expertise, and that knowledge or expertise may prove to have been important to our operations. In that case, their absence may create significant difficulties. Furthermore, this headcount reduction may subject us to the risk of litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and could divert management’s time and attention away from business operations. Environmental and health and safety laws may result in liabilities, expenses and restrictions on our operations. State and federal laws and regulations and those of foreign jurisdictions regarding environmental protection, hazardous substances and human health and safety may adversely affect our business. The use of hazardous substances in our operations exposes us to the risk of accidental releases. If our operations, including those of our third-party service providers and collaborators, result in contamination of the environment or expose individuals to hazardous substances, we could be liable for damages and fines. Future changes to environmental and health and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expenses or restrict our operations. In addition, the site where our principal headquarters and facilities are located has been listed as a contaminated property by the state of Washington due to its previous use by the city of Seattle as an electricity-generating plant. The city of Seattle has agreed to defend us against and indemnify us for any claims that arise from this pre-existing contamination, except to the extent that we caused the claim through our negligence or intentional fault, or to the extent that we contributed to the contamination that is the subject of the claim, caused an increase in the clean-up costs or failed to comply with our obligations under our agreement with the city of Seattle. This indemnity may be insufficient and we may be subject to environmental liabilities or be prohibited from using or occupying some or all of the property as a result of environmental claims. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes contamination or injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities and clinical trials involve the use of potentially harmful biological materials, as well as hazardous materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the distribution, use, storage, handling, or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could exceed our available financial resources. We do not maintain liability insurance coverage for our handling of biological or hazardous materials. We, our collaborative partners, the third parties that conduct clinical trials on our behalf, and our third-party manufacturers are subject to federal, state, local or foreign laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials and waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. The failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in significant fines and work stoppages and may harm our business. 40 Table of Contents We are exposed to financial risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Some of our costs and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and, even if they are not as a matter of contract, vendors may seek concessions in the event that their anticipated economic return is impaired by exchange rate fluctuations. Most of our existing foreign expenses are associated with the manufacture of RECOTHROM and global clinical studies. We are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates with the Euro. When the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, the dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense increases, and when the dollar strengthens against other currencies, the dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense decreases. Consequently, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of the U.S. dollar, may adversely affect our operating results. We currently do not hedge against our foreign currency exposure. Our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations may be adversely affected by declines in the value of our investments in marketable securities. As of December 31, 2009, we had $174.1 million in cash and cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities. Until required for use in our business, we invest our cash reserves in bank deposits, money market funds, high-grade corporate notes, asset-backed securities and U.S. government instruments. As of December 31, 2009, we held asset-backed securities with an estimated fair value of $7.5 million, which had an original cost of $10.5 million. We do not intend to purchase any additional asset-backed securities, but our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations may be adversely affected by further declines in the value of our existing investments in asset-backed securities. These investments may be adversely affected by rating downgrades, deterioration in the underlying collateral or bankruptcies affecting the issuers of such securities, whether caused by instability in the global financial markets, lack of liquidity in the credit and capital markets, or other factors. Risks Related to Our Industry If the healthcare system, coverage and reimbursement policies or any other healthcare-related regulations change, the prices of our products and product candidates may fall or our potential sales may decline. In recent years, U.S. government officials have made numerous proposals to change the healthcare system in the United States. These proposals include measures that would limit or prohibit payments for certain medical procedures and treatments or subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control. Government and other third-party payers increasingly have attempted to control healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of newly approved healthcare products. Increasingly, third-party payors have been challenging the prices charged for products. They may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted marketing approval. The government may adopt future legislative proposals, such as price controls on prescription drugs, and federal, state or private payors for healthcare goods and services may take further action to limit payments for healthcare products and services. Our success depends on the acceptance of our products and product candidates by the medical community. If physicians, hospitals and other providers are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement for procedures using RECOTHROM, they may be less likely to use it and our business would be adversely impacted. In addition, in certain foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control with many of the same types of challenges as in the United States. Any of these factors could limit our ability to successfully commercialize our potential products. We may face increased competition from lower-priced products re-imported into the United States from Canada and other countries. The current law, enacted in December 2003, allows the importation of drugs from Canada, but only if the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that importation will pose no additional risk to the public’s health and safety. To date, no such certifications have been given. Legislative proposals have 41 Table of Contents been made to change the law to allow importation without any certification. If this or other new legislation or regulations were passed allowing the reimportation of drugs, it could adversely affect the prices of our potential products. In addition, there has been much discussion regarding the creation of laws permitting “follow-on” or “generic” versions of biologics. While there is not currently an abbreviated approval pathway for biologics as there is with branded drugs, Congress and the FDA are studying the issue and legislation addressing this issue could be passed as a part of the healthcare reform initiative. An abbreviated pathway for “follow-on” biologics may permit the FDA to rely on clinical data submitted by innovator developers like ourselves when evaluating applications filed by sponsors of follow-on biologics and may not require full or any clinical trials, significantly lowering the risks and financial barriers to entry. The approval of “follow-on” biologics could result in new and increased competition, including competition prior to expiration of our patents covering our products, and related litigation. In addition, if “follow-on” or “generic” versions are permitted, “data exclusivity,” the period during which generic manufacturers may not cite the clinical trial results of the innovator, will become critical. Adoption of a relatively short “data exclusivity” period could result in products that, over the life of such product, are less profitable. Negative public opinion and increased regulatory scrutiny of genetic and clinical research may limit our ability to conduct our business. Ethical, social and legal concerns about genetic and clinical research could result in additional regulations restricting or prohibiting some of our activities or the activities of our suppliers and collaborators. In recent years, federal and state agencies, congressional committees and foreign governments have expressed interest in further regulating the biotechnology industry. More restrictive regulations could delay or complicate nonclinical studies or clinical trials, or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals or commercializing any products. In addition, animal rights activists may protest our use of animals in research and development and may attempt to disrupt our operations, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and distract management attention from other business concerns. The marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and biologics is subject to extensive regulation and aggressive government enforcement, and our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of RECOTHROM and any other products we commercialize will be subject to extensive regulation under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal statutes and associated regulations. These laws and regulations limit the types of marketing claims and other communications we can make regarding marketed products. We are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Anti- kickback laws prohibit payments of any kind intended to induce physicians or others either to purchase or arrange for or recommend the purchase of healthcare products or services, including the selection of a particular prescription drug. These laws make certain business practices that are relatively common in other industries illegal in our industry. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent. The government has asserted very broad interpretations of these laws against pharmaceutical manufacturers, even though these manufacturers did not directly submit claims for reimbursement to government payors. In addition, regulation is not static and regulatory authorities, including the FDA, evolve in their staff, interpretations and practices and may impose more stringent requirements than currently in effect, which may adversely affect our sales and marketing efforts. In addition, it is possible that action by federal or state regulatory authorities, such as the FDA, or private legal actions related to our sales and marketing efforts could result in additional investigations or legal actions by state attorneys general. Violations of the above laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and 42 Table of Contents Medicaid. Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have in recent years been the target of lawsuits and investigations, by both federal and state governmental authorities, alleging violations of government regulation, including claims asserting violations of the federal False Claims Act, the federal anti-kickback statute, state consumer protection statutes and other violations in connection with off-label promotion of products, pricing, and government price reporting. While we will strive to comply with these complex requirements, the interpretation of these laws as applied to particular sales and marketing practices continues to evolve, and it is possible that our sales and marketing practices might be challenged. Further, although we have taken measures to prevent potential challenges, including through our corporate compliance program, we cannot guarantee that such measures will protect us from future challenges, lawsuits or investigations. Even if such challenges are without merit, they could cause adverse publicity, divert management attention and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, including impact on our stock price. In addition, our strategic partners and licensees are required to comply with comparably complex requirements in jurisdictions outside the United States. In order to sell RECOTHROM to federal institutions, such as military hospitals and the Veterans Administration, we must satisfy the requirements of listing on the Federal Supply Schedule and we are required to periodically report product pricing-related information. The calculations used to generate the pricing-related information are complex. If we fail to accurately and timely report product pricing-related information or to comply with any of these or any other laws or regulations, various negative consequences could result, including criminal and/or civil prosecution, substantial criminal and/or civil penalties, exclusion of the approved product from coverage under governmental healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid), costly litigation and restatement of our financial statements. In addition, our efforts to comply with this wide range of laws and regulations are, and will continue to be, time-consuming and expensive. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock We may issue additional equity securities in the future, which may result in dilution to existing investors. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements through at least the next 24 months. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future. Any additional financing we undertake could impose covenants upon us that restrict our operating flexibility and, to the extent such capital is raised through our issuance of additional equity securities, our then existing shareholders may experience dilution or the new securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock. In addition, to the extent outstanding stock options are exercised, there will be further dilution to investors. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Our revenues have been unpredictable and could fluctuate due to slow or erratic uptake of RECOTHROM sales or the timing of licensing fees or the achievement of milestones under new or existing licensing and collaborative arrangements. In addition, our expenses may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to the timing of expenses, particularly with respect to contract manufacturing and clinical and nonclinical testing. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our past operating results are not good indicators of our future performance and should not be relied on to predict our future operating results. It is possible that in the future our operating results in a particular quarter or quarters will not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, causing the market price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. Our stock price is volatile and subject to many factors beyond our control. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors beyond our control, including: • changes in the recommendations of securities analysts or changes in their financial estimates of our operating results; 43 Table of Contents • recommendations or opinions of journalists, media personalities or market commentators; • failures in meeting performance expectations of securities analysts or investors; • acts or omissions of our licensees, collaborators and suppliers; • changes in the political climate and changes in or uncertainties about federal and state legislation, policies, and programs affecting healthcare and pharmaceuticals; • fluctuations in the valuations of companies perceived by securities analysts or investors to be comparable to us; and • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares. Furthermore, the stock markets often experience significant price and volume fluctuations that affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. In particular, there have been high levels of volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Certain of our shareholders have significant control of our management and affairs, which they could exercise against other shareholders’ best interests. Novo Nordisk, together with Warburg Pincus Equity Partners, L.P., beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 43.7% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2009, with Novo Nordisk beneficially owning approximately 30.1% and Warburg beneficially owning approximately 13.6%. Four of the nine members of our board of directors are representatives or designees of these shareholders pursuant to a shareholders’ agreement. Novo Nordisk, acting independently or together with Warburg, has the ability to significantly influence our management and affairs and matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of corporate strategy and significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, Novo Nordisk, acting independently or together with Warburg, may be able to cause a change in control, as well as delay or prevent a change in control. They may also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to effect a change in control, even if such a change in control would benefit our other shareholders. Sales of shares of common stock by our significant shareholders could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Novo Nordisk and Warburg Pincus Equity Partners, L.P. entered into lock-up agreements in connection with the underwritten public offering of our common stock that occurred in January 2010, pursuant to which each has agreed not to sell or transfer any shares of our common stock. These agreements expire on March 8, 2010. Collectively, these shareholders beneficially owned approximately 44% of our outstanding common stock, as of December 31, 2009, and we have previously filed a registration statement covering the resale of the majority of the shares they own. The expiration of the lock-up agreements, or the sale by either shareholder of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or the perception among investors that these sales may occur, could result in the decline of the market price of our common stock. Provisions in Washington law, our charter documents and executive employment agreements we have entered into may prevent, discourage or delay a change in control. We are subject to the Washington laws regulating corporate takeovers, which, with limited exceptions, prohibit a “target corporation” from engaging in certain “significant business transactions” for a period of five years after the share acquisition by an acquiring person, unless (i) the prohibited transaction or the acquiring person’s purchase of shares was approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors prior to the acquiring 44 Table of Contents person’s share acquisition or (ii) the prohibited transaction was both approved by the majority of the members of the target corporation’s board and authorized at a shareholder meeting by at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting shares (excluding the acquiring person’s shares) at or subsequent to the acquiring person’s share acquisition. An “acquiring person” is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation. Such prohibited transactions include, among other things: • certain mergers or consolidations with, dispositions of assets to, or issuances of stock to or redemptions of stock from, the acquiring person; • termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation as a result of the acquiring person’s acquisition of 10% or more of the shares; • allowing the acquiring person to receive any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder; and • liquidating or dissolving the target corporation. After the five-year period, certain “significant business transactions” are permitted, as long as they comply with certain “fair price” provisions of the Washington statute or are approved by a majority of the outstanding shares other than those of which the acquiring person has beneficial ownership. A corporation may not “opt out” of this statute. As such, these laws could prohibit or delay mergers or a change in control and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions, such as undesignated preferred stock and prohibitions on cumulative voting in the election of directors that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Also, our articles of incorporation provide for a staggered board, removal of directors generally only for cause and certain requirements for calling special shareholder meetings. Further, our bylaws require advance notice of shareholder proposals and nominations and impose restrictions on the persons who may call special shareholder meetings. These provisions may have the effect of preventing or hindering any attempts by our shareholders to replace our current board of directors or management. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of biopharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 