Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to significant risks inherent in our business. As such, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The occurrence of any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, it could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps significantly. If we fail to comply with the terms of our Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be subject to substantial monetary penalties or suspension or termination from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. On July 6, 2006 we entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement (“CIA”) with the Office of Inspector General of Health and Human Services. The CIA imposes certain auditing, self-reporting and training requirements that we must comply with. If we fail to comply with the terms of our CIA, we could be subject to substantial monetary penalties and/or suspension or termination from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The imposition of monetary penalties would adversely affect our profitability. A suspension or termination of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs would have a material adverse affect on our profitability and financial condition as substantially all of our net patient service revenue is attributable to payments received from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. 97.0% and 96.6% of our net patient service revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively, were attributed to Medicare and Medicaid payments. We are highly dependent on payments from Medicare and Medicaid. If there are changes in the rates or methods governing these payments for our services, our net patient service revenue and profits could materially decline. We are highly dependent on payments from Medicare and Medicaid. Approximately 97.1%, 97.0% and 96.6% of our net patient service revenue for 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, consisted of payments, paid primarily on a per diem basis, from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Because we generally receive fixed payments for our hospice care services based on the level of care provided to our hospice patients, we are at risk for the cost of services provided to our hospice patients. On July 31, 2008, CMS published the final rule that modifies the hospice wage index by phasing out over a three year period the budget neutrality adjustment factor. According to the final rule, the phase out would occur over a three year period beginning on October 1, 2008, with 25% of the phase-out becoming effective on October 1, 2008, 50% becoming effective on October 1, 2009 and the balance on October 1, 2010. As part of the recently enacted American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the implementation of the phase-out of the budget neutrality adjustment factor has been delayed until October 1, 2009. CMS has indicated that it will begin paying providers the estimated 1.1% increase in hospice rates from October 1, 2008 by the middle of 2009. CMS has also indicated that beginning October 1, 2009 the phase-out of the budget neutrality adjustment factor will begin with 75% becoming effective on October 1, 2009 and the balance on October 1, 2010. We believe the implementation of the phase-out of the budget neutrality adjustment factor on October 1, 2009 will reduce our net patient service revenue by approximately 3.3% beginning on October 1, 2009. We expect this reduction to be offset, at least in part, by the market basket increase in our base payment rates that we receive each October 1st under current law. As part of its review of the Medicare hospice benefit, MedPAC recently recommended to Congress in its 2009 MedPAC Report that Congress direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to change the Medicare payment system for hospice to: 25 Table of Contents • have relatively higher payments per day at the beginning of a patient’s hospice care and relatively lower payments per day as the length of the duration of the hospice patient’s stay increases, • include relatively higher payments for the costs associated with patient death at the end of the hospice patient’s stay, and • implement the payment system changes in 2013, with a brief transitional period. In its 2009 MedPAC Report, MedPAC estimated that these changes would result in a reduction in aggregate payments to for-profit hospices of between 3.2% and 5.0%. Due to budgetary concerns, several states, including Florida and South Carolina, have considered reducing or eliminating the Medicaid hospice benefit. Both Florida and South Carolina ultimately decided to continue the Medicaid hospice benefit. Reductions or changes in Medicare or Medicaid funding could significantly reduce our net patient service revenue and our profitability. We cannot predict at this time whether the recommendations included in the 2009 MedPAC Report will be enacted or whether any additional healthcare reform initiatives will be implemented or whether other changes in the administration of governmental healthcare programs, including the elimination of Medicaid hospice benefits, or interpretations of governmental policies or other changes affecting the healthcare system will occur. Reductions in amounts paid by government programs for our services or changes in methods or regulations governing payments could cause our net patient service revenue and profits to materially decline. We are subject to a Medicare cap amount which is calculated by Medicare. Our net patient service revenue and profitability could be adversely affected by limitations on Medicare payments. Overall payments made by Medicare to us are subject to a cap amount calculated by the Medicare fiscal intermediary at the end of the hospice cap period. The hospice cap period runs from November 1st of each year through October 31st of the following year. Total Medicare payments received by each of our Medicare-certified programs during this period are compared to the cap amount for this period. Payments in excess of the cap amount must be returned by us to Medicare. The cap amount is calculated by multiplying the number of beneficiaries electing hospice care during the period by a statutory Medicare cap amount that is indexed for inflation. The Medicare cap amount is reduced proportionately for Medicare patients who transferred into or out of our hospice programs and either received or will received hospice services from another hospice provider. The Medicare cap amount for the twelve month period ending October 31, 2009 has not been established by Medicare. Once published, the new Medicare cap amount will become effective retroactively for all services performed since November 1, 2008. The hospice cap amount is computed on a program-by-program basis. Our net patient service revenue for 2008 was reduced by approximately $6.9 million as a result of our hospice programs exceeding the Medicare cap. Our ability to comply with this limitation depends on a number of factors relating to a given hospice program, including number of admissions, average length of stay, mix in level of care and Medicare patients that transfer into and out of our hospice programs. Our revenue and profitability may be materially reduced if we are unable to comply with this and other Medicare payment limitations. We cannot assure you that additional hospice programs will not exceed the cap amount in the future or that our estimate of the Medicare cap contractual adjustment will not materially differ from the actual Medicare cap amount. We operate in an industry that is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation, and changes in law and regulatory interpretations could reduce our net patient service revenue and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations relating to, among others: • payment for services; • conduct of operations, including fraud and abuse, anti-kickback prohibitions, physician self-referral prohibitions and false claims; • privacy and security of medical records; • employment practices; and 26 Table of Contents • facility and professional licensure, including certificates of need, surveys, certification and recertification requirements, and corporate practice of medicine prohibitions. In recent years, Congress and some state legislatures have introduced an increasing number of proposals to make significant changes in the healthcare system. Changes in law and regulatory interpretations could increase costs, reduce our net patient service revenue and profitability. Recently, there have been heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state government agencies relating to the healthcare industry. There has also been an increase in the filing of actions by private individuals on behalf of the federal government against healthcare companies alleging the filing of false or fraudulent Medicare or Medicaid claims. This heightened enforcement activity increases our potential exposure to damaging lawsuits, investigations and other enforcement actions. Any such action could distract our management and adversely affect our business reputation and profitability. We were the subject of a civil investigation by the Civil Division of the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”). On July 6, 2006 we entered into a settlement agreement with the DOJ to permanently settle the investigation. As part of the settlement of the investigation we entered into a corporate integrity agreement on July 6, 2006 with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General. On February 14, 2008 we received a letter from the Medicaid Fraud Control Unit of the Texas Attorney General’s office notifying us that it is conducting an investigation concerning Medicaid hospice services provided by us, including our practices with respect to patient admission and retention, and requesting medical records of approximately 50 patients served by our programs in the State of Texas. Based on the early stage of this investigation and the limited information that we have at this time the Company cannot predict the outcome of this investigation, the Texas Attorney General’s views of the issues being investigated, any actions that the Texas Attorney General may take or the impact, if any, that the investigation may have on our business, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. We believe that we are in material compliance with the rules and regulations applicable to the Texas Medicaid hospice program. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. On May 5, 2008, we received a letter from the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) notifying us that it is conducting an investigation of VistaCare, Inc. and requesting that we provide certain information and documents related to its investigation of claims submitted by VistaCare to Medicare and TRICARE from January 1, 2003 through March 6, 2008, the date we completed the acquisition of VistaCare. The DOJ is reviewing allegations that VistaCare may have billed the federal Medicare and TRICARE programs for hospice services that were not reasonably or medically necessary or performed as claimed. We are cooperating with the DOJ and have provided certain documents requested by the DOJ. Based on the early stage of this investigation and the limited information that we have at this time we cannot predict the outcome of the investigation, the DOJ’s views of the issues being investigated, any actions that the DOJ may take or the impact, if any, that the investigation may have on our business, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. We have been named in a class action lawsuit filed on November 6, 2008 in Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County by Charlia Cornish (“Cornish”) alleging class-wide wage and hour issues at our California hospice programs. The suit alleges failure to provide overtime compensation, meal and break periods, accurate itemized wage statements, and timely payment of wages earned upon leaving employment. The purported class includes all persons employed by us in California as an admission nurse, a case manager registered nurse, a licensed vocational nurse, a registered nurse, a home health aide, a medical social worker, a triage coordinator, an office manager, a patient care secretary or a spiritual counselor at anytime on or after November 6, 2004. The lawsuit seeks payment of unpaid wages, damages, interest, penalties and reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs. In January 2009 we successfully moved the lawsuit to Federal District Court in the Central District of California. As a general matter, we believe that we have complied with all regulations at issue in the case and we intend to vigorously defend against the claims asserted. Because the lawsuit is in its early stage, we cannot at this time estimate an amount or range of potential loss in the event of an unfavorable outcome. 27 Table of Contents On January 5, 2009 we received a letter from the Georgia State Health Care Fraud Control Unit notifying us that it is conducting an investigation concerning Medicaid hospice services provided by VistaCare from 2003 through 2007 and requesting certain documents. We are cooperating with the Georgia State Health Care Fraud Control Unit and are in the process of complying with document request. Based on the early stage of this investigation and the limited information that we have at this time we cannot predict the outcome of the investigation, the Georgia State Health Care Fraud Control Unit’s views of the issues being investigated, any actions that the Georgia State Health Care Fraud Control Unit may take or the impact, if any, that the investigation may have on our business, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. On February 2, 2009 we received a subpoena from the OIG requesting certain documents related to our provision of continuous care services from January 1, 2004 through February 2, 2009. We are cooperating with the OIG and are in the process of complying with the subpoena request. Based on the early stage of this investigation and the limited information that we have at this time we cannot predict the outcome of the investigation, the OIG’s views of the issues being investigated, any actions that the OIG may take or the impact, if any, that the investigation may have on our business, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. On March 5, 2009 we received a notice submitted on behalf of Ronaldo Ramos to the California Labor & Workforce Development Agency regarding his intent to file a claim for penalties pursuant to the California Private Attorney General Act for alleged violations of the California Labor Code. Ramos is a former employee and alleges that he and others similarly situated were improperly paid for on-call hours. His notice indicates that he intends to seek to recover unpaid wages, overtime, penalties, punitive damages, interest, and attorney’s fees. We are not aware of him filing a lawsuit. As a general matter, we believe that we have complied with all regulations at issue, and we intend to vigorously defend against the claims asserted. Because the matter is in its early stage, we cannot at this time estimate an amount or range of potential loss in the event of an unfavorable outcome. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of laws, rules and regulations governing the healthcare industry could subject our current business practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services and capital expenditure programs, increase our operating expenses and distract our management. If we fail to comply with these extensive laws and government regulations, we could become ineligible to receive government program payments, suffer civil and criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations. For a more detailed discussion of the regulatory environment in which we operate, see “Item 1. Business — Government Regulation and Payment Structure.” Almost half of our hospice patients reside in nursing homes. Changes in the laws and regulations regarding payments for hospice services and “room and board” provided to our hospice patients residing in nursing homes could reduce our net patient service revenue and profitability. For our hospice patients receiving nursing home care under certain state Medicaid programs who elect hospice care under Medicare or Medicaid, the state must pay us, in addition to the applicable Medicare or Medicaid hospice per diem rate, an amount equal to at least 95% of the Medicaid per diem nursing home rate for “room and board” furnished to the patient by the nursing home. We contract with various nursing homes for the nursing homes’ provision of certain “room and board” services that the nursing homes would otherwise provide Medicaid nursing home patients. We bill and collect from the applicable state Medicaid program an amount equal to at least 95% of the amount that would otherwise have been paid directly to the nursing home under the state’s Medicaid plan. Under our standard nursing home contracts, we pay the nursing home for these “room and board” services at 100% of the Medicaid per diem nursing home rate. Government studies conducted in the last several years have suggested that the reimbursement levels for hospice patients living in nursing homes may be excessive. In particular, the federal government has expressed concern that hospice programs may provide fewer services to patients residing in nursing homes than to patients living in other settings due to the presence of the nursing home’s own staff to address problems that might otherwise be handled by hospice personnel. Because hospice programs are paid a fixed per diem amount, regardless of the volume or duration of services provided, the government is concerned that hospice programs may be increasing their profitability by shifting the cost of certain patient care services to the nursing home. 28 Table of Contents The reduction or elimination of Medicare payments for hospice patients residing in nursing homes would significantly reduce our net patient service revenue and profitability. In addition, changes in the way nursing homes are reimbursed for “room and board” services provided to hospice patients residing in nursing homes could affect our ability to obtain referrals from nursing homes. A reduction in referrals from nursing homes would adversely affect our net patient service revenue and profitability. If we are unable to maintain relationships with existing patient referral sources or to establish new referral sources, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success is heavily dependent on referrals from physicians, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, adult care centers, hospitals, managed care companies, insurance companies and other patient referral sources in the communities that our hospice locations serve, as well as on our ability to maintain good relations with these referral sources. Our referral sources are not contractually obligated to refer hospice patients to us and may refer their patients to other hospice care providers, or not at all. Our growth and profitability depend significantly on our ability to provide good patient and family care, to establish and maintain close working relationships with these patient referral sources and to increase awareness and acceptance of hospice care by our referral sources and their patients. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing referral source relationships or that we will be able to develop and maintain new relationships in existing or new markets. Our loss of existing relationships or our failure to develop new relationships could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations and operate profitably. Moreover, we cannot assure you that awareness or acceptance of hospice care will increase. Our growth strategy to develop new hospice programs in new and existing markets may not be successful, which could adversely impact our growth and profitability. An element of our growth strategy is expansion of our business by developing new hospice programs in new markets and growth in our existing markets. This aspect of our growth strategy may not be successful, which could adversely impact our growth and profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: • identify markets that meet our selection criteria for new hospice programs; • hire and retain a qualified management team to operate each of our new hospice programs; • manage a large and geographically diverse group of hospice programs; • become Medicare and Medicaid certified in new markets; • generate sufficient hospice admissions in new markets to operate profitably in these new markets; or • compete effectively with existing programs in new markets. Our growth strategy to acquire other hospices may not be successful and the integration of future acquisitions may be difficult and disruptive to our ongoing business. In addition to growing existing programs and developing new hospice programs, an element of our growth strategy is expansion through the acquisition of other hospice programs. We cannot assure you that our acquisition strategy will be successful. The success of our acquisition strategy is dependent upon a number of factors, including: • our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates; • our ability to negotiate favorable acquisition terms, including purchase price, which may be adversely affected due to increased competition with other buyers; • the availability of financing on terms favorable to us, or at all; • our ability to integrate effectively the systems and operations of acquired hospices; 29 Table of Contents • our ability to retain key personnel of acquired hospices; and • our ability to obtain required regulatory approvals. Acquisitions involve a number of other risks, including diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and the assumption of known or unknown liabilities of acquired hospices, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations. The integration of acquired hospices may place significant strains on our current operating and financial systems and controls. We may not successfully overcome these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with our acquisition strategy. According to MedPAC, an estimated 37% of hospice programs in the United States are not-for-profit programs. Accordingly, it is likely that a substantial number of acquisition opportunities may involve hospices operated by not-for-profit entities. In recent years, several states have increased review and oversight of transactions involving the sale of healthcare facilities by not-for-profit entities. Although the level of review varies from state to state, the current trend is to provide for increased governmental review, and in some cases approval, of transactions in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility or business. This increased scrutiny may increase the difficulty in completing, or prevent the completion of, acquisitions in some states in the future. Our loss of key senior management personnel or our inability to hire and retain skilled employees at a reasonable cost could adversely affect our business and our ability to increase patient referrals. Our future success depends, in significant part, upon the continued service of our key senior management personnel. The loss of services of one or more of our key senior management personnel or our inability to hire and retain new skilled employees could adversely affect our future operating results. In addition, the loss of key CERs could negatively impact our ability to maintain or increase patient referrals, a key aspect of our growth strategy. Competition for skilled employees is intense, and the process of locating and recruiting skilled employees with the combination of qualifications and attributes required to care effectively for terminally ill patients and their families can be difficult and lengthy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, retaining or training highly skilled nursing, management, CERs, administrative, admissions and other personnel. Our business could be disrupted and our growth and profitability negatively impacted if we are unable to attract and retain skilled employees. A nationwide shortage of qualified nurses could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to grow and continue to provide quality, responsive hospice services to our patients as nursing wages and benefits increase. We currently employ approximately 1,800 full-time nurses and 100 part-time nurses. We depend on qualified nurses to provide quality, responsive hospice services to our patients. There is currently a nationwide shortage of qualified nurses that is being felt in some of the markets in which we provide hospice services, primarily in California. In response to the shortage of qualified nurses in these markets, we have increased and are likely to continue to increase our wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses or to engage contract nurses until we hire permanent staff nurses. Our inability to attract and retain qualified nurses could adversely affect our ability to provide quality, responsive hospice services to our patients and our ability to increase patient census in those markets. In addition, because we operate in a fixed reimbursement environment, increases in the wages and benefits that we must provide to attract and retain qualified nurses or an increase in our reliance on contract nurses will negatively impact our profitability. Medical reviews and audits by governmental and private payors could result in material payment recoupments and payment denials, which could negatively impact our business. Medicare fiscal intermediaries and other payors periodically conduct pre-payment and post-payment medical reviews and other audits of our reimbursement claims. In order to conduct these reviews, the payor requests documentation from us and then reviews that documentation to determine compliance with applicable rules and regulations, including the eligibility of patients to receive hospice benefits, the appropriateness of the care provided to those patients, and the documentation of that care. We cannot predict whether medical reviews or similar audits 30 Table of Contents by federal or state agencies or commercial payors of our hospice programs’ reimbursement claims will result in material recoupments or denials, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. If any of our hospice programs fails to comply with the Medicare conditions of participation, that program could be terminated from the Medicare program, thereby adversely affecting our net patient service revenue and profitability. Each of our hospice programs must comply with the extensive conditions of participation of the Medicare hospice benefit. If any of our hospice programs fails to meet any of the Medicare conditions of participation, that program may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state surveyor. If that hospice program then fails to institute a plan of correction and correct the deficiency within the correction period provided by the state surveyor, that program could be terminated from receiving Medicare payments. For example, under the Medicare hospice program, each of our hospice programs must demonstrate that volunteers provide administrative and direct patient care services in an amount equal to at least five percent of the total patient care hours provided by our employees and contract staff at the hospice program. If we are unable to attract a sufficient number of volunteers at one of our hospice programs to meet this requirement, that program could be terminated from the Medicare benefit if the program fails to address the deficiency within the applicable correction period. Any termination of one or more of our hospice programs from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the volunteer or other conditions of participation could adversely affect our net patient service revenue and profitability and financial condition. On December 2, 2008 the new Medicare conditions of participation became effective. We believe that we are in compliance with the new conditions of participation; however, we cannot predict how surveyors will interpret all aspects of the new Medicare conditions of participation. Many states have certificate of need laws or other regulatory provisions that may adversely impact our ability to expand into new markets and thereby limit our ability to grow and to increase our net patient service revenue. Many states have enacted certificate of need laws that require prior state approval to open new healthcare facilities or expand services at existing facilities. Those laws require some form of state agency review or approval before a hospice may add new services or undertake significant capital expenditures. New York has additional barriers to entry. New York places restrictions on the corporate ownership of hospices. Accordingly, our ability to operate in New York is restricted. These laws could adversely affect our ability to expand into new markets and to expand our services and facilities in existing markets. We may not be able to compete successfully against other hospice providers, and competitive pressures may limit our ability to maintain or increase our market position and adversely affect our profitability. Hospice care in the United States is competitive. In many areas in which our hospice programs are located, we compete with a large number of organizations, including: • community-based hospice providers; • national and regional companies; • hospital-based hospice and palliative care programs; • nursing homes; and • home health agencies. Some of our current and potential competitors have or may obtain significantly greater financial and marketing resources than us. Various healthcare companies have diversified into the hospice market. For example, a few large healthcare providers, including Golden Living (formerly Beverly Enterprises, Inc.) and Manor Care, Inc., have entered the hospice business directly or through affiliates. Relatively few barriers to entry exist in our local markets. Accordingly, other companies, including hospitals and other healthcare organizations that are not currently providing hospice care, may expand their services to include hospice care or similar services. We may encounter 31 Table of Contents increased competition in the future that could negatively impact patient referrals to us, limit our ability to maintain or increase our market position and adversely affect our profitability. If our costs were to increase more rapidly than the fixed payment adjustments we receive for our hospice services from Medicare and Medicaid, our profitability could be negatively impacted. We generally receive fixed payments for our hospice services based on the level of care we provide to patients and their families. Accordingly, our profitability is largely dependent on our ability to manage costs of providing hospice services. Medicare and Medicaid currently provide for an annual adjustment of the various hospice payment rates based on the increase or decrease of the medical care expenditure category of the Consumer Price Index; however, the increases have usually been less than actual inflation. If this adjustment were eliminated or reduced, or if our costs of providing hospice services, over one-half of which consist of labor costs, which have been rising, increased more than the annual adjustment, our profitability could be negatively impacted. In addition, cost pressures resulting from shorter patient lengths of stay and the use of more expensive forms of palliative care, including drugs and drug delivery systems, could negatively impact our profitability. On July 31, 2008, CMS published the final rule that modifies the hospice wage index by phasing out over a three year period the budget neutrality adjustment factor. According to the final rule, the phase out would occur over a three year period beginning on October 1, 2008, with 25% of the phase-out becoming effective on October 1, 2008, 50% becoming effective on October 1, 2009 and the balance on October 1, 2010. As part of the recently enacted American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the implementation of the phase-out of the budget neutrality adjustment factor has been delayed until October 1, 2009. CMS has indicated that it will begin paying providers the estimated 1.1% increase in hospice rates from October 1, 2008 by the middle of the current year. CMS has also indicated that beginning October 1, 2009 the phase-out of the budget neutrality adjustment factor will begin with 75% becoming effective on October 1, 2009 and the balance on October 1, 2010. We believe the implementation of the phase-out of the budget neutrality adjustment factor on October 1, 2009 will reduce our net patient service revenue by approximately 3.3% beginning on October 1, 2009. We expect this reduction to be offset, at least in part, by the market basket increase in our base payment rates that we receive each October 1st under current law. Reductions or changes in Medicare or Medicaid funding could significantly reduce our net patient service revenue and our profitability. We cannot predict at this time whether additional payment changes or reductions in our payments will be enacted or whether any additional healthcare reform initiatives will be implemented or whether other changes in the administration of governmental healthcare programs or interpretations of governmental policies or other changes affecting the healthcare system will occur. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to patient privacy could require us to expend substantial sums on acquiring and implementing new information systems. There are currently numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the state and federal levels that address patient privacy concerns. In particular, HIPAA contains provisions that have required us to implement new systems and business procedures designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient’s individual health information. The Department of Health and Human Services published final regulations addressing patient privacy on December 28, 2000, transaction and code set final regulations on September 23, 2003, and final regulations addressing the security of such health information on February 20, 2003. We believe we are in compliance with the requirements of the privacy regulations, transaction and code set regulations, and security regulations. We continue to evaluate and update our processes and procedures to meet the requirements of the standards; however, we cannot assure you that all of the parties with whom we do business will be in compliance with HIPAA. Additional legislative and regulatory initiatives and changes in the interpretation of existing legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding patient privacy could result in additional operating costs, which could materially adversely affect our profitability. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 made several significant changes to the HIPAA privacy and security requirements. These changes include mandatory notification of breaches of privacy and security involving protected health information to the affected individuals, the Department of Health and Human Services and, in certain circumstances, the media. In addition, several changes were made to increase enforcement of the HIPAA privacy and security requirements, including giving state attorneys general new civil enforcement authority related to violations of HIPAA’s privacy and security provisions and requiring the Department of Health and Human Services to conduct periodic audits of covered entities. Because of the recent enactment of these changes and the 32 Table of Contents lack of regulatory guidance we cannot assure you that these changes will not have a material adverse affect on us once they are fully implemented. Our net patient service revenue and profitability may be constrained by cost containment initiatives undertaken by insurers and managed care companies. Initiatives undertaken by insurers and managed care companies to contain healthcare costs affect the profitability of our hospice programs. We have a number of contractual arrangements with insurers and managed care companies for providing hospice care for a fixed fee. These payors attempt to control healthcare costs by contracting with hospices and other healthcare providers to obtain services on a discounted basis. We believe that this trend may continue and may limit payments for healthcare services, including hospice services. In addition, future changes in Medicare related to Medicare Advantage programs could result in managed care companies becoming financially responsible for providing hospice care. If such changes were to occur, managed care companies could be responsible for payments to us out of their Medicare payments, and a greater percentage of our net patient service revenue could come from managed care companies. As managed care companies attempt to control hospice-related costs, they could reduce payments to us for hospice services. These developments could negatively impact our net patient service revenue and profitability. A significant reduction in the carrying value of our goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. A significant portion of our total assets consists of intangible assets, primarily goodwill. Goodwill accounted for approximately 41.1% of our total assets as of December 31, 2008. Any event that results in the significant impairment of our goodwill, such as closure of a hospice program, changes in our operating segments or sustained operating losses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Professional and general liability claims and hired and non-owned auto liability claims may have an adverse effect on us either because our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover the losses or because claims against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may adversely affect our reputation, our ability to obtain patient referrals or our ability to expand our business. In recent years, participants in the healthcare industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits, including allegations of medical malpractice. Many of these lawsuits involve large claims and substantial defense costs. From time to time, we are subject to these types of lawsuits. While we maintain professional and general liability insurance, some risks and liabilities, including claims for punitive damages, are not covered by insurance. In addition, we cannot assure you that our coverage will be adequate to cover potential losses. While we have been able to obtain liability insurance in the past, insurance can be expensive and may not be available in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also adversely affect our reputation, our ability to obtain patient referrals or our ability to expand our business, as well as divert management resources from the operation of our business. We have a $250,000 deductible per occurrence under our hired and non-owned auto insurance coverage. One or more severe auto accidents involving our employees could result in a significant liability expense and corresponding reduction in profitability. We continue to evaluate our insurance program for cost effective alternative insurance coverage. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain cost effective insurance to adequately cover this risk. An adverse ruling against us in certain litigation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business currently and from time to time. The damages claimed against us in some of these cases are substantial. See the “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a discussion of these litigation matters. We cannot assure you that we will prevail in the pending cases. In addition to the possibility of an adverse outcome, such litigation is costly to manage, investigate and defend, and the related defense costs, diversion of 33 Table of Contents management’s time and related publicity may adversely affect the conduct of our business and the results of our operations. Because of conditions in the credit markets we may not be able to access our funds that are currently invested in auction rate securities without incurring a substantial loss on the disposition of such securities. At December 31, 2008, we had invested $17.1 million in tax exempt auction rate securities (“ARS”) which are classified as long-term investments. The ARS held by us are private placement securities for which the interest rates are reset every 35 days. The reset dates have historically provided a liquid market for these securities as investors historically could readily sell their investments. With the liquidity issues experienced in global credit and capital markets, we have not been able to liquidate any ARS since early July of 2008. These securities generally have not experienced payment defaults and are backed by student loans which carry guarantees as provided for under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of the U.S. Department of Education and all were AAA/Aaa rated at December 31, 2008. To date we have collected all interest payments on all of our ARS when due and expect to continue to do so in the future. If the uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue or these markets deteriorate further, these securities may not provide liquidity to us when needed. Currently, there is a very limited market for these securities and further liquidations at this time, if possible, would likely be at a significant discount. If we had to liquidate any ARS at this time, we would incur significant losses. We currently believe that we have sufficient liquidity for our current needs without selling any ARS and do not currently intend to attempt to further liquidate these securities until market conditions improve. If our currently available resources are not sufficient for our needs and we are not able to liquidate any ARS on acceptable terms on a timely basis, it could have a significant impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We may need additional capital to fund our operations and finance our growth, and we may not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In connection with our acquisition of VistaCare, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) on February 28, 2008 with General Electric Capital Corporation and certain other lenders that provides us with a $130 million term loan (the “Term Loan”) and a $30 million revolving line of credit. The Term Loan was used to pay a portion of the purchase price and costs incurred with respect to the acquisition of VistaCare. We expect that our existing funds, cash flows from operations and borrowings under the Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund our working capital needs, anticipated hospice development and acquisition plans, debt service requirements, and other anticipated capital requirements for at least 12 months following the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Continued expansion of our business through the development of new hospice programs, inpatient business development and acquisitions may require additional capital, in particular if we were to accelerate our hospice program development and acquisition plans. In the past, we have relied on funds raised through our initial public offering and private issuances of debt and equity and also through bank financing and cash flows from operations to support our growth. In the future, required financing may not be available or may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our growth strategies. Further, if additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders would be diluted. Any new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. The Credit Agreement contains, and future debt agreements may contain, various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business. The Credit Agreement and related documents contain, and the agreements and instruments governing future credit facilities may contain, various restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios and may restrict our ability to: • incur more debt; • redeem or repurchase stock, pay dividends or make other distributions; • make certain investments; 34 Table of Contents • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • make certain acquisitions; • merge or consolidate; and • transfer or sell assets. In addition, events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with and maintain these financial tests and ratios. Any failure by us to comply with or maintain all applicable financial tests and ratios and to comply with all applicable covenants could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement or any other future debt agreements. This could lead to the acceleration of the maturity of any outstanding loans, the termination of the commitments to make further extensions of credit and the enforcement of other rights and remedies. Even if we are able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business at our discretion could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems to efficiently manage our business. Our information systems are essential for providing billing and accounts receivable functions. Our systems are vulnerable to various disasters, including fire, storms, loss of power, physical or software break-ins and other such events. If our systems fail or are unavailable for any reasons, our ability to maintain billing records or to pay our staff in a timely manner could be jeopardized. Our inability to effectively integrate, manage and keep secure our information systems could disrupt our operations. Our business depends on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, processing claims, reporting financial results, managing regulatory compliance controls and maintaining operational efficiencies. These systems include software developed in-house and systems provided by external contractors and other service providers. To the extent that these external contractors or other service providers become insolvent or fail to support the software or systems, our operations could be negatively affected. Our hospice programs also depend upon our information systems for accounting, billing, collections, payroll and other information. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Our acquisition activity requires transitions and integration of various information systems. We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems’ capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition and integration of information systems or are unable to implement, maintain, or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches, including unauthorized access to patient data stored in our information systems, and the introduction of computer viruses to our systems. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches and our business operations would be negatively impacted by cancellation of contracts and loss of patients if security breaches are not prevented. Provisions in our charter documents, under Delaware law, and in our stockholder rights plan could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: 35 Table of Contents • authorize the issuance by the board of directors of preferred stock without the requirement of stockholder approval, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock; • provide for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; • prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; • limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit our stockholders from amending our bylaws unless the amendment is approved by the holders of at least 80% of our shares of common stock; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, our certificate of incorporation prohibits the amendment by our stockholders of many provisions of our certificate of incorporation unless the amendment is approved by the holders of at least 80% of our shares of common stock. Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors could use this provision to prevent or delay takeovers. In addition, purchase rights distributed under our stockholder rights plan will cause substantial dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire us without conditioning the offer on our redemption of the rights. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control transaction. As a result, they may limit the price investors may be willing to pay for our stock in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. 36 Table of Contents 