Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by unfavorable economic developments and the performance of the debt and equity markets. Economic and market conditions materially and adversely affected us in the last recession. The economy may once again deteriorate. The resulting lack of credit, increase in defaults, lack of confidence in the financial sector, volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These effects include, but are not limited to, the following: · Lower fee revenue and higher expenses. Significant declines in equity markets would decrease assets in our variable annuity and variable universal life product lines, resulting in lower fee income and increased amortization of deferred acquisition costs. · Realized and unrealized losses in our fixed income portfolio. The value of the portfolio would be depressed by general interest rate increases or credit spread widening, as well as by illiquidity and by changes in assumptions we use to estimate the fair value of securities. Bonds supported by residential and commercial mortgages could experience losses if the delinquency rates of the underlying mortgage loans increase. · Realized and unrealized losses in alternative asset classes. We invest in private equity funds, mezzanine funds, hedge funds, and other limited partnerships, which generate returns that are more volatile than other asset classes and are relatively illiquid and, therefore, may be harder to value or sell in adverse market conditions. · Higher statutory reserve and capital requirements. Certain regulatory reserve and capital requirements incorporate actual and expected future capital market conditions and could increase materially in the event of significant equity market declines or changes in interest rates, credit spreads and credit default rates. · Losses due to changes in accounting estimates. Significant accounting estimates may be materially affected by the equity and debt markets and their impact on expected customer behavior. For example, in setting amortization schedules for our deferred policy acquisition costs, we make assumptions about future market performance, interest rates and policyholder behavior. · Increased funding requirements for our pension plan. Approximately 70% of our pension plan assets are invested in equities and the remaining 30% in fixed income and other asset classes. We made contributions of $17.4 million to the pension plans during 2011. During 2012, we expect to make contributions of approximately $16.4 million to these plans. Future market declines could result in additional funding requirements. Also, the funding requirements of our pension plan are sensitive to interest rate changes. Should interest rates decrease materially, the plan liabilities would increase. · Hedging losses or increased reserve requirements in our variable annuity business. We use derivatives to hedge the value of certain guaranteed benefits. These hedges and other management procedures could prove ineffective, especially during times of significant market volatility. For benefits that are not hedged, such as minimum death benefits and minimum income benefits we could be required to increase reserves in the event of a significant decline in the equity markets. Persistent low interest rates or significant increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our products expose us to significant interest rate risk. A substantial portion of our business is spread-based, meaning that profitability depends on our ability to invest premiums at yields in excess of the rates we credit to policyholders. The current low interest rate environment has meant that we have invested or reinvested cash flows at substantially lower yields than our existing portfolio yield, while our ability to reduce credited rates has been limited by contractual minimums. Persistent low interest rates could compound this spread compression. In addition, they could cause additional premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and lower policy surrenders. 9 Persistent low interest rates could also result in higher statutory reserve and capital requirements. The Life Companies are subject to annual asset adequacy testing, which requires additional reserves to be posted if projected asset cash flows and future premiums are not able to support future policy claims and surrenders under a range of possible scenarios. Low interest rates have also increased the liability of our pension plans and other post-employment benefits. Further declines in interest rates could result in additional increases in these liabilities. Conversely, if interest rates rise significantly, we could face an increase in unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. At the same time, it could cause life insurance policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher returns. This could require us to sell invested assets at a time when their prices are depressed, which could cause us to realize investment losses. Our actuarial reserve calculations, particularly for universal life death benefits and guaranteed annuity benefits require many assumptions and significant management judgment, which, if incorrect, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We establish reserves to pay future policyholder benefits and claims. A significant proportion of our reserves do not represent policyholder funds but rather are actuarial estimates based on assumptions that include future premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results (including equity market returns), mortality, morbidity and persistency. As a result, we cannot be certain that the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and claims. If, in the future, we determine this to be the case, we would need to increase our reserves in the period in which we make the determination, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience losses if capital market conditions, mortality or longevity experience, policyholder behavior (e.g., persistency, premium payments, benefit utilization rates) or other factors differ significantly from the assumptions we used in pricing products. We set prices for our insurance and annuity products based upon capital market assumptions, expected mortality or longevity, and expected policyholder behavior. For capital market assumptions such as equity market returns and investment portfolio yields we use current market observations, historical information and management judgment. For mortality and longevity rates we use standard actuarial tables, company experience and management judgment. For policyholder behavior assumptions we use available industry and company data. Assumptions used in pricing our products generally are consistent with assumptions used to initially determine the amortization of deferred acquisition costs. Adverse experience relative to these assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations and financial condition. Recent trends in the life insurance industry may affect our mortality, persistency and funding levels. The evolution of the financial needs of policyholders and the emergence of a secondary market for life insurance and increased availability and subsequent contraction of premium financing suggest that the reasons for some purchases of our products changed. At the same time, prior to 2009, we experienced an increase in life insurance sales to older individuals. While we instituted certain controls and procedures to screen applicants, we believe that our sales of universal life products include sales of policies to third party investors who, at the time of policy origination, had no insurable interest in the insured. Deviations in experience from our assumptions have had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on the profitability of certain universal life products. Most of our current products permit us to increase charges and adjust crediting rates during the life of the policy or contract (subject to guarantees in the policies and contracts). In the past two years, we have implemented increases in the cost of insurance rates for certain universal life policies. However, these adjustments and any other permitted adjustments do not allow us to recoup past losses and may not be sufficient to maintain profitability in the future. In addition, increasing charges on in force policies or contracts may adversely affect our relationships with distributors, future sales and surrenders. Furthermore, some of our in force business consists of products that do not permit us to adjust the charges and credited rates of in force policies or contracts. Our recent development of fixed indexed annuity products has required us to make assumptions about the behavior of policyholders in a market segment with which we are not historically familiar and for product features for which there is limited long-term industry experience. In particular, if our assumptions with respect to persistency and benefit utilization in the future prove inaccurate, we may experience an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 10 Adverse experience relative to our assumptions could also result in higher amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. The recovery of deferred policy acquisition costs is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates.” If our estimates of future gross profits or margins cannot support the continued amortization or recovery of deferred policy acquisition costs the amortization of such costs is accelerated in the period in which the assumptions are changed, resulting in an “unlocking” charge to income. Such adjustments may in the future have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We have limited access to external sources of liquidity and financing. Our current financial strength and credit ratings limit our access to external sources of liquidity and financing. During periods of capital market volatility, this access could be further constrained, and the cost of financing could increase significantly. Our ongoing needs for liquidity include policy claims, surrenders, policy loans, commissions, interest and operating expenses. In addition, we may from time to time have discrete needs for liquidity, such as contributions to our pension plan or legal settlements. Our principal sources of liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds and cash flow from our investment portfolio. Sales of assets that are readily convertible into cash represent an additional source. We do not have in place credit facilities or letters of credit that we could draw upon to meet our liquidity requirements. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to realize investment losses, deplete capital or curtail certain of our operations, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Guaranteed benefits within our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results if hedging strategies prove ineffective, result in higher hedging costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Certain of our products include guaranteed benefits. These include GMDBs, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (“GMABs”), GMWBs and guaranteed minimum income benefits (“GMIBs”). Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to earnings. We use derivative instruments to hedge the liability exposure and the volatility of earnings associated with some of these liabilities, and even when these and other actions would otherwise successfully mitigate the risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. In addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior, including lower withdrawals or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. Hedging instruments we hold to manage product and other risks have not, and may continue to not, perform as intended or expected, resulting in higher realized losses. Market conditions can also result in losses on product related hedges and such losses may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. These factors, individually or collectively, may adversely affect our profitability, financial condition or liquidity. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. Our policies and procedures to monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified and unanticipated risks. We use models in many aspects of our operations, including but not limited to the pricing of products, estimation of actuarial reserves, amortization of deferred acquisition costs, and the valuation of certain other assets and liabilities. These models rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. A failure of our computer systems or a compromise of their security could also subject us to regulatory sanctions or other claims, harm our reputation, interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 11 Our statutory capital could decrease or our capital requirements could increase and adversely affect our business. We conduct the majority of our business through Phoenix Life and its indirect subsidiary, PHLVIC. As of December 31, 2011, Phoenix Life had statutory capital and surplus of $728.8 million, which included PHLVIC’s capital and surplus of $312.8 million. Accounting standards and statutory capital and reserve requirements for these entities are prescribed by their respective insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). In addition, NAIC regulations define minimum risk-based capital (“RBC”) requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks, which are intended to be used by insurance regulators to identify deteriorating or weakly capitalized companies. Separately, some rating agencies have their own capital models that are used to assess capital adequacy as part of the rating process. Statutory surplus and regulatory or capital requirements may increase or decrease due to a variety of factors, including but not limited to the following: the amount of statutory income generated by our insurance subsidiaries, unrealized gains or losses on equity and certain fixed income holdings, unrealized gains or losses on derivatives, changes in interest rates and equity market levels, changes in the credit quality of our fixed income investments, changes in policy reserves, funding requirements of our pension plan, additional reserve requirements as a result of annually required asset adequacy testing, changes in the capital models or applicable risk factors, and changes in statutory accounting rules or regulatory determinations. Most of these factors are outside of our control. If one or more of these factors significantly decreased statutory surplus or increased required RBC, we could experience downgrades, loss of distribution relationships, higher surrenders and increased regulatory supervision. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to generate earnings growth in new market segments, particularly the sale of fixed indexed annuities to middle market customers. We are implementing a business plan that leverages existing product manufacturing strengths and partnering capabilities to focus new business development in areas that are less capital intensive and appeal to distributors with middle market clients. We have limited experience in the middle market and in the design and sale of fixed indexed annuities. These products have required us to institute new processes for ensuring product suitability, executing hedges using derivatives, and processing transactions. In addition, the ultimate profitability of these products is significantly influenced by future investment earnings, policy holder behavior and estimates of longevity. If the new risk management processes we designed prove inadequate, or if future investment earnings, policyholder behavior or longevity differs significantly from expectations, our results from operations may be adversely affected and our growth may not be sustained. Our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We record fixed maturity securities, equity securities and trading securities at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, the valuation of securities may require the adoption of certain estimates and assumptions. In addition, prices provided by independent broker quotes or independent pricing services that are used in the determination of fair value can vary significantly for a particular security. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. These values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and may change very rapidly as market conditions change or assumptions are modified. Changes in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a decline in fair value below the amortized cost of a security requires management to assess whether an other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) has occurred. The decision on whether to record an OTTI or write-downs is determined in part by our assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security as well as management’s assertion of whether it is more likely than not that we will sell the securities before recovery. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates” for further information regarding our impairment decision-making process. Management’s determination of whether a decline in value is other than temporary includes our analysis of the underlying credit and our intention and ability not to have to sell the security, versus the extent and duration of a decline in value. Our conclusions on such assessments may ultimately prove to be incorrect as facts and circumstances change. 12 Downgrades of debt and financial strength ratings could increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, adversely affect relationships with distributors, reduce new sales, limit our ability to trade in derivatives and increase our future borrowing costs. Rating agencies assign Phoenix Life and its subsidiaries financial strength ratings, and assign us debt ratings, based in each case on their opinions of the Company’s or Phoenix Life’s ability to meet their respective financial obligations. Our ratings relative to other companies in the industry affect our competitive position. Downgrades since 2008 have adversely affected our reputation and, hence, our ability to distribute our products through unaffiliated third parties. These downgrades in ratings have materially and adversely affected new sales of our products and the persistency of existing customers, as well as our ability to borrow. At this time, we cannot estimate the impact of specific future rating agency actions on sales or persistency. If our financial strength ratings were to fall below a specified rating threshold, certain derivative counterparties could request immediate payment or demand immediate and ongoing full collateralization on derivative instruments in net liability positions, or trigger a termination of existing derivatives and/or future derivative transactions. Any rating downgrades may also result in a lack of access to or increased interest costs in connection with future borrowings. Such an increase would decrease our earnings and could reduce access to financing and have a material adverse effect on our operations. In light of the difficulties experienced by many financial institutions, including insurance companies, rating agencies have increased the frequency and scope of their credit reviews and requested additional information from the companies that they rate, including us. They may also adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response. We may incur losses if our reinsurers are unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts. The availability, pricing and terms of reinsurance may not be sufficient to protect us against losses. We use reinsurance to reduce the severity and incidence of claims costs, and to provide relief with regard to certain reserves. As of December 31, 2011, 66.1% of the total face amount of in-force policies was ceded to reinsurers. Under these reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and related expenses; however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims and we assume credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from our reinsurers. Although we regularly evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers, the inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations could negatively affect our operating results. In addition, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain available to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as have been historically available. If we are unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our net exposure or develop other alternatives to reinsurance. Any of these alternatives may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We might be unable to attract or retain personnel who are key to our business. The success of our business is dependent to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition in the job market for senior executives and professionals such as sales personnel, technology professionals, actuaries and investment professionals can be intense. In general, our employees are not subject to employment contracts or non-compete agreements. Difficulty in attracting and retaining employees could have a negative impact on us. Our business operations and results could be adversely affected by inadequate performance of third-party relationships. We are dependent on certain third-party relationships to maintain essential business operations. These services include, but are not limited to, information technology infrastructure, application systems support, transfer agent and cash management services, custodial services, records storage management, backup tape management, security pricing services, medical information, payroll, and employee benefit programs. 13 We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these agreements and there can be no assurance that their terms will remain acceptable to such third parties or us. An interruption in our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties or any material delay or inability to deliver essential services could materially affect our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We face strong competition in our businesses from insurance companies and other financial services firms. If we are unable to price our products competitively or provide competitive service we could lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers. We operate in a highly competitive industry. While there is no single company that we identify as a dominant competitor in our business, many of our competitors are substantially larger and enjoy better financial strength ratings, more financial resources and greater marketing and distribution capabilities. Our products compete with similar products sold by other insurance companies and also with savings and investment products offered by banks, asset managers, and broker-dealers. Larger competitors with better financial strength ratings, greater financial resources, marketing and distribution capabilities are better positioned competitively. Larger firms are also able to better withstand market disruption, offer more competitive pricing, and more effectively access debt and equity capital. Moreover, a significant proportion of sales in the life insurance and annuity industries represent exchanges from one company’s to another company’s products. To the extent that a more competitive product alternative with better product features is offered by another company, we could experience higher policy surrenders. If we fail to compete effectively in this environment, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. As a holding company, The Phoenix Companies, Inc., depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to meet its obligations and pay shareholder dividends. The Phoenix Companies, Inc., is a holding company, and has no operations of its own. Its ability to pay interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses depends primarily upon the surplus and earnings of Phoenix Life and the ability of this subsidiary to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds. Payments of dividends and advances or repayment of funds by Phoenix Life are restricted by the applicable laws and regulations, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds. For example, the statutory ability of Phoenix Life to pay dividends to the Company without special regulatory approval is $71.8 million for 2012. Changes to these laws, or the application or implementation of those laws by regulatory agencies, could constrain the ability of PNX to meet its debt obligations and corporate expenses. We might need to fund deficiencies in our closed block, which would adversely impact results of operations and could also result in a reduction in investments in our on-going business. We have allocated assets to our closed block to produce cash flows that, together with additional revenues from the closed block policies, are reasonably expected to support our obligations relating to these policies. Our allocation of assets to the closed block was based on actuarial assumptions about the performance of policies in the closed block and the continuation of the non-guaranteed policyholder dividend scales in effect for 2000, as well as assumptions about the investment earnings the closed block assets will generate over time. Since actual performance is likely to be different from these assumptions, it is possible that the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies included in the closed block will prove insufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies even if the non-guaranteed policyholder dividend scale were to be reduced. If this were to occur, we would have to fund the resulting shortfall from assets outside of the closed block, which could adversely affect our results of operations and reduce our ability to invest in other on-going businesses. Tax law and policy are frequently reviewed and changed by the Internal Revenue Service and Congress and future changes in laws or regulations could increase our tax costs and make some of our products less attractive to consumers. Significant and fundamental changes in U.S. federal income tax laws, Treasury and other regulations have been made in recent years and additional changes are likely. Any such change may affect us. Moreover, judicial decisions, regulations or administrative pronouncements could unfavorably affect our tax costs and make certain of our products less attractive to consumers. 14 Certain products we offer, primarily life insurance and annuities, receive favorable tax treatment under current federal and state tax law. This favorable treatment may be considered as providing certain of our products a competitive tax advantage over noninsurance products. This advantage is separate from the death benefit protection and lifetime payout guarantees offered by life insurance and annuity products. In addition, an increasing proportion of our annuity contracts are issued in connection with Individual Retirement Accounts (“IRAs”), which also provide tax benefits to policyholders. Furthermore, a meaningful number of our in-force life insurance policies were originally sold for estate and business planning purposes. The tax consequences associated with our products could be altered at any time by legislative, judicial, or administrative action. Any such action that increases the taxation on our products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of our products making them less competitive. With respect to life insurance company taxation, the current administration’s proposed federal budget includes substantial changes in the computation of the dividends received deduction relative to both general account and separate account dividends. If enacted, they could increase our taxable income and unfavorably impact our tax provision allocated to continuing operations, which would reduce our consolidated net income. The current administration has proposed certain other changes which, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our ability to sell our products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. We also benefit from certain tax provisions, including but not limited to, deductibility of performance-based compensation that exceeds $1.0 million, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends-received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions. Congress, as well as foreign, state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could modify or eliminate these benefits, as well as other corporate tax provisions, thereby increasing our tax costs. If such legislation were to be adopted, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely impacted. We cannot predict whether any relevant tax legislation will be enacted, what the impact of such legislation would be on our tax costs and sales of our products, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether any such legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state regulation may increase our cost of doing business, impose additional reserve or capital requirements, levy financial assessments, or constrain our operating and financial flexibility, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities including state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the U.S. Department of Justice, state attorneys general, and foreign regulators. In light of recent events involving certain financial institutions and the current financial crisis, the U.S. government has heightened its oversight of the financial services industry. In addition, it is possible that these authorities may adopt enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises in the financial services industry and to assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. We cannot predict whether such regulatory proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such regulation could have on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity. Each of the authorities that regulates us exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may, even absent any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business. 15 On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), which implements significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape and will impact institutions operating in many segments of the financial services industry, including the Company. Although certain provisions became effective immediately, many of the Act’s provisions require adoption of rules that will govern implementation. The Act may, among other things, increase our regulatory compliance burden by requiring us to invest management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes to our policies and procedures and the manner in which we conduct our business. The U. S. government has created the Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) under the Act as a branch of the U. S. Treasury Department. Under its charge to improve consumer protection, the FIO may regulate actual product design and mandate additional disclosure rules. We are uncertain as to the impact that this new legislation and regulatory guidance will have on the Company and cannot assure that it will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and licensed. State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: · licensing companies and agents to transact business; · calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; · mandating certain insurance benefits; regulating certain premium rates; reviewing and approving policy forms; · regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; · establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; · fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; · approving changes in control of insurance companies; · restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and · regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. Changes in all of these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Compliance with these laws and regulations is also time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance costs and other expenses of doing business, thus having an adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Regulatory actions could result in financial losses or harm to our businesses. Various regulatory bodies regularly make inquiries of us and, from time to time, conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws, securities laws, and laws governing the activities of broker-dealers. During the past several years, there has been a significant increase in federal and state regulatory activity relating to financial services companies, with a number of recent regulatory inquiries focusing on valuation and cost of insurance increase issues. Financial services companies have also been the subject of broad industry inquiries by state regulators and attorneys general which do not appear to be company-specific, such as business practices upon notification of death. We continue to cooperate with the applicable regulatory authorities in these matters. While the regulatory authorities have not taken action against us with regard to these inquiries, we may be subject to further related or unrelated inquiries or actions in the future. In light of recent events involving certain financial institutions, the U.S. government has heightened its oversight of the financial services industry in general and of the insurance industry in particular. Further, recent adverse economic and market events may have the effect of encouraging litigation, arbitration and regulatory action in response to the increased frequency and magnitude of investment losses, which may result in unfavorable judgments, awards and settlements, regulatory fines and an increase in our related legal expenses. It is not feasible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all regulatory proceedings or to provide reasonable ranges of potential losses. We believe that the outcomes of regulatory matters are not likely, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. However, given the inherent unpredictability of regulatory matters, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements in particular quarterly or annual periods. 16 Legal actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation. We are, and in the future may be, subject to legal actions in the ordinary course of our businesses. Some of these proceedings have been brought, and may be brought in the future, on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. In certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. Substantial legal liability in these or future legal actions could have an adverse affect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could, among other items, harm our business prospects, result in regulatory or legislative responses and have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. We could have material losses in the future from our discontinued reinsurance business. In 1999, we discontinued our reinsurance operations through a combination of sale, reinsurance and placement of certain retained group accident and health reinsurance business into run-off. We adopted a formal plan to stop writing new contracts covering these risks and to end the existing contracts as soon as those contracts would permit. However, we remain liable for claims under contracts which have not been commuted. We have established reserves for claims and related expenses that we expect to pay on our discontinued group accident and health reinsurance business. These reserves are based on currently known facts and estimates about, among other things, the amount of insured losses and expenses that we believe we will pay, the period over which they will be paid, the amount of reinsurance we believe we will collect from our retrocessionaires and the likely legal and administrative costs of winding down the business. We expect our reserves and reinsurance to cover the run-off of the business; however, the nature of the underlying risks is such that the claims may take years to reach the reinsurers involved. Therefore, we expect to pay claims out of existing estimated reserves as the level of business diminishes. In addition, unfavorable or favorable claims and/or reinsurance recovery experience is reasonably possible and could result in our recognition of additional losses or gains, respectively, in future years. For these reasons, we cannot know today what our actual claims experience will be. In addition, we are involved in disputes relating to certain portions of our discontinued group accident and health reinsurance business. See Note 24 to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. In establishing our reserves described above for the payment of insured losses and expenses on this discontinued business, we have made assumptions about the likely outcome of the disputes referred to above, including an assumption that substantial recoveries would be available from our reinsurers on all of our discontinued reinsurance business. However, the inherent uncertainty of arbitrations and lawsuits, including the uncertainty of estimating whether any settlements we may enter into in the future would be on favorable terms, makes it hard to predict outcomes with certainty. Given the need to use estimates in establishing loss reserves, and the difficulty in predicting the outcome of arbitrations and lawsuits, our actual net ultimate exposure likely will differ from our current estimate. If future facts and circumstances differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions about future events with respect to the disputes referred to above or other portions of our discontinued reinsurance business, our current reserves may need to be increased materially, with a resulting material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or guidance issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board. It is possible that these and other future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could significantly affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Adoption of New Accounting Standards” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. 17 We identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting during the year ended December 31, 2010 which was remediated during 2011. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide timely and reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls our financial statements may not accurately reflect our financial condition, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have an adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of December 31, 2011, the Company had no unresolved SEC staff comments regarding its periodic or current reports. 