ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Regulation The Company is subject to comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies which significantly influences the operating environment, and thus the Company’s ability to recover costs from retail customers. The PUCT regulates many aspects of the Company’s retail distribution operations. Profitability of the Company is dependent on the ability to recover costs related to providing services to customers. The Company provides service at rates approved by the PUCT, and these rates are generally regulated based on the Company’s expenses incurred in a test year. Thus, the rates the Company is allowed to charge may or may not match its expenses at any given period of time. While rate regulation is premised on providing a reasonable opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the PUCT will judge all costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of costs. It is possible there could be changes in the regulatory environment or reinterpretations of existing laws or regulations that would impair the Company’s ability to recover costs historically collected from customers, as well as impose additional costs or change the method in which the Company conducts business. FERC has jurisdiction over wholesale rates for electric transmission service and certain other activities of our transmission subsidiary. Federal, state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of the Company’s other activities, including regulation of retail rates and environmental matters. The Company is unable to predict the impact on its operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of new or additional regulations could have an adverse impact on results of operations and therefore could materially affect the Company’s ability to meet its financial obligations. We remain committed to providing superior service and reliability to customers. Meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital and other resources. The Company’s failure to provide safe reliable service and to meet reliability standards could adversely affect the Company’s operating results as well as cause increased capital and maintenance costs and the imposition of fines and penalties by regulatory bodies. Rising energy prices The cost of natural gas and coal has risen over recent years. The direct effect of these higher costs is somewhat mitigated for the Company because such costs of fuel are recovered from customers through its purchased power recovery. However, higher fuel costs could significantly impact the Company’s cash flows as a result of timing delays between the collection of fuel cost recoveries and expenditures made for fuel purchases. Higher fuel costs could also cause a decline in customer demand or an increase in bad debt expense. The Company is unable to predict future fuel prices or the ultimate impact of such prices on its results of operations or cash flows. 7 Weather conditions Weather conditions directly impact the demand for electric power. In the Company’s service areas, demand for power peaks during the summer months, and severe weather such as tornadoes, storms and ice may cause outages and property damage that may require the Company to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the failure of the Company’s facilities to operate as planned under these adverse conditions would be arduous during a peak demand period. Economic cycles Declines in demand for electricity generally follow a sustained downturn in the economy, and lessen cash flows, especially as industrial customers reduce production. Economic conditions also impact the ability of customers to pay their bills, thus affecting the rate of delinquent customer accounts receivable. Major suppliers The Company utilizes suppliers for such items as materials warehousing, meter reading and IT support and services. The ability of these suppliers to provide goods and services may depend upon such items as financial stability, economic conditions and a stable workforce. In the event these suppliers are unable to fulfill their commitments or the contracts should not be renewed, the Company could incur additional costs to secure new suppliers at competitive rates and in a timely manner so as to prevent operations from being severely affected. See also Note 21, Commitments and Contingencies. LGB Agreement In November 2005, based in part upon the unanimous recommendation of a special committee of the Board of Directors, the Company signed the LGB Agreement with a newly formed entity, Cap Rock Holding Corporation, owned by LGB. Shareholders approved the LGB Agreement at a special meeting held on March 10, 2006. The transaction is subject to certain conditions outside the control of the Company, including approvals by the PUCT and FERC. The Company is expending considerable time and resources in completing the transaction. Efforts to satisfy the closing conditions may divert time and attention of Management which would otherwise be focused on the operations of the Company. In addition, if the conditions to the transaction were not to be satisfied, the Company would need to refocus management efforts on its ongoing operations as a publicly-held utility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None 