Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially adversely affect our business or that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements we make. Because our sales are concentrated on a limited number of key customers, our revenue may materially decline if one or more of our key customers do not continue to purchase our existing and new products in significant quantities. Our customer base is highly concentrated. In fiscal 2006, our sales to our two top customers, Seagate and Samsung, amounted to 24% of our revenue and 18% of our revenue, respectively, and our top 10 end customers accounted for approximately 73% of our revenue. If any one of our key customers were to decide to purchase significantly less from us or to terminate its relationship with us, our revenue may materially decline. Because we have a long product design and development cycle for most of our products, we may be unable to replace these customers quickly or at all. We could lose our key customers or significant sales to our key customers because of factors beyond our control, such as a significant disruption in our customers’ businesses generally or in a specific product line. If we fail to keep pace with technological advances in our industry or if we pursue technologies that do not become commercially accepted, customers may not buy our products and our results of operations may be adversely affected. The demand for our products can change quickly and in ways we may not anticipate because our industry is generally characterized by: rapid, and sometimes disruptive, technological developments; evolving industry standards; changes in customer requirements; limited ability to accurately forecast future customer orders; frequent new product introductions and enhancements; and short product life cycles with declining prices over the life cycle of the product. 9 If we fail to make sufficient investments in research and development programs in order to develop new and enhanced products and solutions, or if we focus on technologies that do not become widely adopted, new technologies could render our current and planned products obsolete, resulting in the need to change the focus of our research and development and product strategies and disrupting our business significantly. The integrated circuit industry is intensely competitive, and our failure to compete effectively could result in reduced revenue. The market for integrated circuits is intensely competitive and subject to rapid and disruptive technological change. We expect the intensity of competition to continue to increase as existing competitors enhance and expand their product offerings and as new participants enter the market. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors, which may result in reduced revenue. The size and number of our competitors vary across our product areas, as do the resources we have allocated to the segments we target. Therefore, many of our competitors have greater financial, personnel, production capacity and other resources than we have in a particular market segment or overall. Competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot match or offer. These competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new technologies and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. They also may adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential customers, employees and strategic partners. These competitors may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to gain market share. Further, competitors may be selling commercial quantities of products that we are sampling to our customers, that are still in the initial stages of development or that we may develop in the future. By being able to offer these products in commercial quantities before we do, our competitors can establish significant market share, acquire design wins in customer equipment programs and create a market position that we may be unable to overcome once we have completed development and testing of our product. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate because we derive most of our revenue from semiconductor devices and the integrated circuits industry is highly cyclical, and because of other characteristics of our business, and these fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall. We expect to derive most of our revenue from the sale of integrated circuits. Because the integrated circuits industry is highly cyclical, we may experience declines in our revenue that are primarily related to industry conditions and not our products. This industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, excess manufacturing capacity worldwide, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. We focus primarily on winning competitive selection processes to develop products for use in our customers’ equipment. These selection processes can be lengthy. After winning a product design for a customer, that customer may not begin volume production of their equipment for a period of up to two years, if at all. Due to this lengthy design and development cycle, we may experience delays from the time we begin incurring expenses until the time we generate revenue from our products. We have no assurances that our customers will ultimately market and sell their equipment or that such efforts by our customers will be successful. Thus, we may never generate any revenue from our products after incurring significant design and development expenditures. If we are not selected by a customer to provide the next generation of a product we already supply, we may experience significantly lower revenue later, as compared to prior periods with more revenue from earlier design wins. In addition, sales of our products for specific customer projects often begin and end abruptly, so revenue may increase rapidly and later decrease just as quickly. The relative timing of the beginning and end of our sales and design processes can make our revenues less predictable. Fluctuations in our revenue or operating results could cause our stock price to decline, even if our results meet expectations. Further, stock prices in our industry have recently been highly volatile for reasons that sometimes are unrelated to the performance of the companies in the industry. These broad fluctuations could adversely affect our stock price. 10 If we do not achieve adequate manufacturing utilization, yields or volumes or sufficient product reliability, our gross margins will be reduced. Because the manufacturing costs at our owned assembly and test facilities and at our joint venture wafer fabrication facility are relatively fixed, efficient utilization of manufacturing facilities and manufacturing yields are critical to our results of operations. If we do not experience adequate utilization of our manufacturing facilities, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, from time to time, we may have to pay to reserve capacity at third-party manufacturers. If this is the case and we overestimate demand for our products, we may have to pay for capacity that we do not use, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. The manufacture of our products involves highly complex and precise processes, requiring production in highly controlled and clean environments. Changes in our manufacturing processes or those of our suppliers or contractors, or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials, could significantly reduce our manufacturing yields and product reliability. Lower than expected manufacturing yields could delay product shipments, harm our relationship with a customer and adversely affect our results of operations. Because we are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, any significant cancellations or deferrals could cause our revenue to decline or fluctuate. We generally sell products pursuant to purchase orders that customers may cancel or defer on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Cancellations or deferrals could cause us to hold excess inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If a customer cancels or defers product shipments or refuses to accept shipped products, we may incur unanticipated reductions or delays in our revenue. If a customer does not pay for our products in a timely manner, we could incur significant charges against our income, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. A joint venture and third parties manufacture all of our wafers for us. If these suppliers are unable to fill our orders on a timely and reliable basis, our revenue may be adversely affected. The integrated circuit manufacturing industry has a history of developing new manufacturing processes. We believe that the costs associated with implementing new processes, including acquiring the necessary equipment and building appropriate facilities, are increasing with each generation of manufacturing processes. We have not wanted to make the significant financial investments necessary for new processes and rely on contract manufacturers to fabricate products using processes that we do not have at our joint venture manufacturer. To the extent we rely on joint ventures and third-party manufacturing relationships, we face the following risks: that they may be unwilling to devote adequate capacity to produce our products; that they may not be able to develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products; that manufacturing costs will be higher than planned; that reliability of our products will decline; that they may not be able to maintain continuing relationships with our suppliers; and that we may have reduced control over delivery schedules and costs of our products. If any of these risks were to be realized, we could experience an interruption in supply or an increase in costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In the event of an increase in demand, failure to increase our manufacturing volumes or obtain capabilities from third parties may result in our not being able to meet customer demand for our products, which could hurt our relationships with our customers and result in our recording lower revenues than would be the case if we had greater manufacturing capacity. 11 Because many of our current and planned products are highly complex, they may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment in commercial applications, and if this occurs, it could harm our reputation and result in reduced revenues or increased expenses. Our products are highly complex and may contain undetected defects, errors or failures. These products can only be fully tested when deployed in commercial applications and other equipment. Consequently, our customers may discover errors after the products have been deployed. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures could result in: cancellation of orders; product returns, repairs or replacements; diversion of our resources; legal actions by our customers or our customers’ end users; increased insurance costs; and other losses to us or to our customers or end users. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and loss of sales, which would harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. We have from time to time experienced defects in our products and expect to experience defects in the future. Because the trend in our industry is moving toward even more complex products in the future, this risk will intensify over time and may result in increased expenses. We are expanding, and may seek in the future to expand, into new areas, and if we are not successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We are currently developing products in new areas, including advanced mobile phone technologies, high-speed networking and consumer electronics. We may seek to expand into additional areas in the future. We may expand through internal development efforts, through acquisitions of companies or technologies, or a combination of these methods. Our efforts may not result in sales that are sufficient for us to recoup our investment, and we may experience higher costs than we anticipated. For example, we may not be able to manufacture our products at a competitive cost, may need to rely on new suppliers or may find that the development efforts are more costly or time consuming than we had anticipated. Our products may support protocols that are not widely adopted. Where we choose to develop capabilities by acquiring another company, we may not be able to integrate the other company successfully into our operations, which may mean that we have difficulty retaining employees from the acquired company or integrating its technology into our products. We may have difficulties entering markets where competitors have strong market positions. A widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our manufacturing, assembly and test, design or other operations, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. A widespread outbreak of an illness such as avian influenza, or bird flu, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, could adversely affect our operations as well as demand from our customers. A number of countries in the Asia/Pacific region have experienced outbreaks of bird flu and/or SARS. As a result of such an outbreak, businesses can be shut down temporarily and individuals can become ill or quarantined. We have assembly and test and back-office operations as well as our joint venture wafer fabrication facility in Singapore, assembly and test and back-office operations in Thailand and design operations in China, countries where outbreaks of bird flu and/or SARS have occurred. If our operations are curtailed because of health issues, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for manufacturing or other services and alternate sources can be more expensive. Alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. In addition, a curtailment of our design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. If our customers’ businesses are affected by health issues, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 12 We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects may be harmed. Like other companies in the semiconductor industry, we are frequently involved in disputes regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement when we attempt to license our intellectual property to others. Defending these claims could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, third parties may attempt to appropriate the confidential information and proprietary technologies and processes used in our business, which we may be unable to prevent and which would harm our business and prospects. We have relatively high gross margin on the revenue we derive from the licensing of our intellectual property, and a decline in this revenue would have a greater impact on our net income than a decline in revenue from the sale of our integrated circuits products. The revenue we generate from the licensing of our intellectual property has a higher gross margin compared to the revenue we generate from the sale of integrated circuits. Although we derive less than 10% of our total revenue from the licensing of intellectual property, a decline in this licensing revenue would have a greater impact on our profitability than a similar decline in revenues from the sale of our integrated circuit products. Our licensing revenue tends to come from a limited number of transactions and the failure to complete one or more transactions in a quarter could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. If our customers do not qualify our products or manufacturing lines or the manufacturing lines of our third-party suppliers for volume shipments, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Some customers will not purchase any of our products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, until they qualify the manufacturing line for the product. We may not always be able to satisfy the qualifications. Delays in qualification may cause a customer to discontinue use of our products and result in a significant loss of revenue. We conduct a significant amount of our sales activity and manufacturing efforts outside the United States, which subjects us to additional business risks and may adversely affect our results of operations. In fiscal 2006, we derived approximately 83% of our revenue from sales of our products shipped to locations outside the United States. We also manufacture a significant portion of our products outside the United States and are dependent on non-U.S. suppliers for many of our parts. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in both sales and manufacturing outside the United States. Operations outside the United States are subject to a number of risks and potential costs, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, including: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; inadequate protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States; currency exchange rate fluctuations; international trade disputes; political and economic instability; and disruptions in international air transport systems. 13 If we fail to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to develop, market or sell our products or successfully manage our business. In some of our fields of operation, there are only a limited number of people in the job market who possess the requisite skills. In the past we have experienced difficulty in identifying and hiring sufficient numbers of qualified engineers in parts of our business as well as in retaining employees. The loss of the services of any key personnel or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills could restrict our ability to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner, to sell products to our customers or to manage our business effectively. The development and evolution of markets for our integrated circuits are dependent on factors over which we have no control. For example, if our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible or fail to adopt standards with which our products are compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers and our sales would suffer. The emergence of markets for our integrated circuits is affected by a variety of factors beyond our control. In particular, our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards. Our customers may not adopt or continue to follow these standards, which would make our products less desirable to our customers and reduce our sales. Also, competing standards may emerge that are preferred by our customers, which could also reduce our sales and require us to make significant expenditures to develop new products. To the extent that we are not able to effectively and expeditiously adapt to new standards, our business will suffer. Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies in the integrated circuit industry and other technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. Accordingly, we may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Any securities litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert the attention and resources of our management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 