Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below. You should carefully consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials we file with the SEC. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks may also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations have been, and are expected to continue to be, materially and adversely affected by unfavorable general economic developments, as well as by specific related factors such as the performance of the debt and equity markets and changes in interest rates. Over the past year, the U.S. economy has experienced unprecedented credit and liquidity issues and entered into recession. Following several years of rapid credit expansion, a sharp contraction in mortgage lending coupled with dramatic declines in home prices, rising mortgage defaults and increasing home foreclosures, resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to most sectors of the credit markets, and to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions, to be subsidized by the U.S. government and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties many lenders and institutional investors have reduce d and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and fears of a prolonged recession. Even under more favorable market conditions, general factors such as the availability of credit, consumer spending, business investment, capital market conditions and inflation affect our business. For example, in an economic downturn, higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending may depress the demand for life insurance, annuities and investment products. In addition, this type of economic environment may result in higher lapses or surrenders of policies. Accordingly, the risks we face related to general economic and business conditions are more pronounced given the severity and magnitude of recent adverse economic and market conditions experienced. More specifically, our business is exposed to the performance of the debt and equity markets, which have been materially and adversely affected by recent economic developments. Adverse conditions, including but not limited to, a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes, and benchmark interest rate changes, have affected and will continue to impact the liquidity and value of our investments. In addition to other ways set forth in additional risk factors below, the ways that poor debt and equity market performance and changes in interest rates have adversely affected, and will continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition, growth and profitability include, but are not limited to, the following: · The value of our investment portfolio has declined which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, higher realized and/or unrealized losses. For example, in 2008 the value of our general account investments decreased by $1.3 billion, before offsets, due to net unrealized losses on investments. A widening of credit spreads, such as the market has experienced recently, increases the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio and may ultimately result in increased realized losses. The value of our investment portfolio can also be affected by illiquidity and by changes in assumptions or inputs we use in estimating fair value. Further, certain types of securities in our investment portfolio, such as asset-backed securities supported by residential and commercial mortgages, have been disproportionately affected. Continued adverse capital market conditions could result in further realized and/or unrealized losses. 10 · Changes in interest rates also have other effects related to our investment portfolio. In periods of increasing interest rates, life insurance policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals could increase as policyholders seek investments with higher returns. This could require us to sell invested assets at a time when their prices are depressed by the increase in interest rates, which could cause us to realize investment losses. Conversely, during periods of declining interest rates, we could experience increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased percentages of policies remaining in force. We would obtain lower returns on investments made with these cash flows. In addition, borrowers may prepay or redeem bonds in our investment portfolio so that we might have to reinvest those proceeds in lower yielding investments. As a consequence of these factors, we could experience a decrease in the spread between the returns on our investment portfolio and amounts credited to policyholders and contract owners, which could adversely affect our profitability. · Our investments in alternative asset classes, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and limited partnership interests, have also been adversely affected. There may be similar adverse effects in the future. These assets generate returns that are more volatile than other asset classes. For example, in 2008 our net investment income related to these investments declined $60.6 million. These assets are also relatively illiquid and may be harder to value or sell in adverse market conditions. · Asset-based fee revenues related to our variable life and annuity products have declined and may continue to decline. For example, in 2008 our asset-based fees declined $4.6 million. Poor performance of the debt and equity markets diminishes our fee revenues by reducing the value of the assets we manage. · The attractiveness of certain of our products may decrease because they are linked to the equity markets and assessments of our financial strength, resulting in lower profits. Increasing consumer concerns about the returns and features of our products or our financial strength may cause existing clients to surrender policies or withdraw assets, and diminish our ability to sell policies and attract assets from new and existing clients, which would result in lower sales and fee revenues. · The funding requirements of our pension plan have increased. The funding requirements of our pension plan are dependent on the performance of the debt and equity markets. The value of the assets supporting the pension plan decreased by $143.4 million in 2008, thereby increasing the requirement for future funding. Future market declines could result in additional funding requirements. Also, the funding requirements of our pension plan are sensitive to interest rate changes. Should interest rates decrease materially, the value of the liabilities under the plan would increase, as would the requirement for future funding. These extraordinary economic and market conditions have materially and adversely affected us. In 2008 we had a net loss of $726.0 million. It is difficult to predict how long the current economic and market conditions will continue, whether the financial markets will continue to deteriorate and which aspects of our products and/or business will be adversely affected. However, the lack of credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity are likely to continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continuing adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital. Continued adverse capital and credit market conditions may limit our access to liquidity and affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds. We need liquidity to meet policyholder obligations and to pay operating expenses and interest on our debt, as well as any shareholder dividends declared by our board of directors. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail certain of our operations, resulting in reduced profits. The principal internal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Under normal circumstances, we maintain access to external sources of liquidity, including a credit facility and potential issuance of debt and equity securities. The availability of external sources of liquidity depends on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. The current uncertainty or volatility in the financial markets has reduced our ability to obtain new financing in support of our business on favorable terms, and eliminated our ability to access certain markets at all. As a result, we may need to amend or replace our existing credit facility on unattractive terms or may be unable to replace the facility at all. 11 Losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of fixed income securities (which include structured securities such as commercial mortgage backed securities and residential mortgage backed securities or other high yielding bonds) could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. Such defaults could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the underlying assets supporting our structured securities may deteriorate causing these securities to incur losses. Our investment portfolio includes investment securities in the financial services sector that have experienced defaults recently. Further defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The unprecedented current market conditions have made it difficult to value certain illiquid securities in our investment portfolio because trading has become less frequent and/or market data less observable. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. These values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The decision on whether to record other-than-temporary impairments or write-downs is determined in part by our assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security as well as an evaluation of our ability and intent to hold the securities to recovery. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition—Debt and Equity Securities Held in General Account.” Given current market conditions and liquidity concerns, our determinations of whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary have placed greater emphasis on our analysis of the underlying credit, probability of collecting contractual cash flows and our ability and intent to hold the investment to maturity, versus the extent and duration of a decline in value. Our conclusions on such assessments may ultimately prove to be incorrect as facts and circumstances change. Guaranteed benefits within our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results if hedging strategies prove ineffective, result in higher hedging costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk, which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and liquidity. Certain of our products include guaranteed benefits. These include guaranteed minimum death benefits, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits and guaranteed minimum income benefits. Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to earnings. For example, in 2008 we experienced a loss of $20.8 million after tax associated with the effect of adverse market conditions on our guaranteed benefit reserves. We use derivative instruments to hedge the liability exposure and the volatility of earnings associated with some of these liabilities, and even when these and other actions would otherwise successfully mitigate the risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. In addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior, including increased withdrawals or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. Hedging instruments we hold to manage product and other risks have not, and may continue to not, perform as intended or expected, resulting in higher realized losses and unforeseen cash needs. Market conditions can also increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. For example, in 2008, we experienced increased hedging costs of $38.1 million due to increased execution costs and hedge inefficiency. These factors, individually or collectively, may adversely affect our profitability, financial condition or liquidity. 12 The amount of statutory capital that we have and the amount of statutory capital that we must hold to meet rating agency and other requirements can vary significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control, including equity market and credit market conditions and changes in rating agency models. We conduct the vast majority of our business through our insurance company subsidiaries. Accounting standards and statutory capital and reserve requirements for these entities are prescribed by the applicable insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). The NAIC has established regulations that provide minimum capitalization requirements based on risk-based capital (“RBC”) formulas for our insurance company subsidiaries. The RBC formula for our insurance company subsidiaries establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks. In any particular year, statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors: the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries (which itself is sensitive to equity market and credit market conditions), the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth, changes in equity market levels, the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, the value of certain derivative instruments that do not get hedge accounting, changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, as well as changes to the NAIC RBC formulas. Most of these factors are outside of our control. Our financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios of our insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital they believe we should hold. Further, in extreme scenarios of equity market declines, such as those experienced recently, the amount of additional statutory reserves that we are required to hold for our variable annuity guarantees increases at a disproportionate rate. This reduces the statutory surplus used in calculating our RBC ratios. We have recently taken capital management actions to bolster our capitalization and RBC ratio including, but not limited to, the sale of certain securities in our portfolio and entry into reinsurance arrangements. As of December 31, 2008, Phoenix Life received approval from the New York Insurance Department to accelerate the admission of the remaining $13.7 million indemnity reserve related to the Company’s surplus notes with a corresponding increase to surplus. Downgrades to debt and financial strength ratings could increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, adversely affect relationships with distributors, reduce new sales and increase our future borrowing costs. Rating agencies assign Phoenix Life and its subsidiaries financial strength ratings, and assign us debt ratings, based in each case on their opinions of the company’s ability to meet its financial obligations. Our ratings relative to other companies in the industry affect our competitive position. Downgrades could adversely affect our reputation and, hence, our relationships with existing distributors and our ability to establish additional distributor relationships. If this were to occur, we might experience a decline in sales of certain products and the persistency of existing customers. At this time, we cannot estimate the impact of specific rating agency actions on sales or persistency. A significant decline in our sales or persistency could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Any rating downgrades may also result in increased interest costs in connection with future borrowings. Such an increase would decrease our earnings and could reduce our ability to finance our future growth on a profitable basis. We have recently been downgraded and had our outlook revised adversely. On March 4, 2009, Fitch downgraded our financial strength rating to BBB+ from A and placed the rating on Rating Watch Negative. On October 31, 2008, Fitch downgraded our financial strength rating to A from A+ and maintained its negative outlook. On March 2, 2009, Standard and Poor’s downgraded our financial strength rating to BBB from BBB+ and downgraded our senior debt rating to BB from BB+. At the same time, Standard and Poor’s removed the ratings from CreditWatch, where they had been placed with negative implications on February 10, 2009. The outlook is negative. On October 31, 2008, Standard & Poor’s downgraded our financial strength rating to BBB+ from A- and downgraded our senior debt rating to BB+ from BBB-. They also revised our outlook to negative from stable. On February 19, 2009, Moody’s Investor Service downgraded our financial strength rating to Baa1 from A3 and do wngraded our senior debt rating to Ba1 from Baa3. The ratings remain on review for possible further downgrade as was previously announced on December 9, 2008. On January 15, 2009, A.M Best Company, Inc. affirmed our financial strength rating of A and changed our outlook to negative from stable and also revised our senior debt rating outlook to negative from stable. Further, on September 18, September 29, October 2 and October 10, 2008, A.M. Best Company, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd., Moody’s Investors Service, and Standard & Poor’s, respectively, each revised its outlook for the U.S. life insurance sector to negative from stable, citing, among other things, the significant deterioration and volatility in the credit and equity markets, economic and political uncertainty, and the expected impact of realized and unrealized investment losses on life insurers’ capital levels and profitability. 13 In light of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including insurance companies, rating agencies have increased the frequency and scope of their credit reviews and requested additional information from the companies that they rate, including us. They may also adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response. Accordingly, further downgrades and outlook revisions related to us or the life insurance industry may occur in the future at any time and without notice by any rating agency. These could increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, adversely affect relationships with distributors, reduce new sales, reduce our ability to borrow and increase our future borrowing costs. Our profitability may decline if investment returns, mortality rates, persistency rates, funding levels, expenses or other factors differ significantly from our pricing expectations. We set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected investment returns, claims, expected persistency of these policies and the expected level and pattern of premium payments into these policies. We use assumptions for equity market returns, investment portfolio yields, and mortality rates, or likelihood of death, of our policyholders in pricing our products. Pricing also incorporates the expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next, as well as the assumed level and pattern of premium payments and the cost we incur to acquire and administer policies. Recent trends in the life insurance industry may affect our mortality, persistency and funding levels. The evolution of the financial needs of policyholders and the emergence of a secondary market for life insurance suggest that the reasons for purchasing our products are changing, and we have experienced an increase in life insurance sales to older individuals. The effect that these changes may have on our actual experience and profitability is not yet well understood. Significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. Although most of our current products permit us to increase charges and adjust crediting rates during the life of the policy or contract (subject to guarantees in the policies and contracts), the permitted adjustments may not be sufficient to maintain profitability. In addition, increasing charges on inforce policies or contracts may adversely affect our relationships with distributors and future sales. Furthermore, some of our inforce business consists of products that do not permit us to adjust the charges and credited rates of inforce policies or contracts. Deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could also cause us to increase the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, which would have an adverse impact on profitability. We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal business. Costs that vary with, and are primarily related to the production of new and renewal business, are deferred and amortized over time. The recovery of deferred policy acquisition costs is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates.” The amount of future profit or margin is dependent on investment returns, surrender and lapse rates, interest margin, mortality, premium persistency, funding patterns and expenses. These factors enter into management’s estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortize such costs. In particula r, equity market movements and our performance have a significant effect on investment returns. Accordingly, sustained and significant changes in the equity markets, such as we have experienced recently, could have an effect on deferred policy acquisition cost amortization. If the estimates of gross profits or margins cannot support the continued amortization or recovery of deferred policy acquisition costs, as was the case in 2008, the amortization of such costs is accelerated in the period in which the assumptions are changed, resulting in a charge to income. For example, in 2008 we had an unlocking of deferred policy acquisition costs of $183.8 million, of which $136.7 million related to declines in the markets, primarily related to our annuity products. Accordingly, such adjustments have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 14 We may incur losses if our reinsurers are unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts. The availability, pricing and terms of reinsurance may not be sufficient to protect us against losses. We utilize reinsurance to reduce the severity and incidence of claims costs, and to provide relief with regard to certain reserves. As of December 31, 2008, 64.5% of the total face amount of our written policies was ceded to reinsurers. Under these reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and related expenses; however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims and we assume credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from our reinsurers. Although we regularly evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers, the inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations could negatively affect our operating results. Recent adverse economic and market conditions may exacerbate the inability or unwillingness of our reinsurers to meet their obligations. In addition, market conditions beyond our control determin e the availability and cost of reinsurance. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain available to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as have been historically available. Recent adverse economic and market conditions may decrease the availability and increase the cost of reinsurance. If we are unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our net exposure, reduce the amount of business we write, or develop other alternatives to reinsurance. Any of these alternatives may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We depend on non-affiliated distribution for our product sales and if our relationships with these distributors were harmed, we could suffer a loss in revenues. We distribute our products through non-affiliated advisors, broker-dealers and other financial intermediaries. There is substantial competition for business within most of these distributors. We believe that our sales through these distributors depend on a variety of factors, such as our financial strength, the quality and pricing of our products and the support services we provide. In 2008, our largest individual distributor of life insurance was a subsidiary of State Farm Mutual Automobile Company (“State Farm”). Our largest distributors of annuities in 2008 were State Farm and National Life Group. In 2008, State Farm accounted for approximately 27% of our total life insurance premiums. In 2008, State Farm accounted for approximately 68% and National Life Group accounted for approximately 14% of our annuity deposits. Since our relationship with State Farm began in mid-2001, it has generated $260 million in cumulative new total life premiums and $1.6 billion in annuity deposi ts. Our distributors are generally free to sell products from a variety of providers. On March 3, 2009, State Farm informed us that it intends to suspend the sale of our products pending a re-evaluation of the relationship between the companies. On March 4, 2009, National Life Group informed us that it intends to suspend the sale of our products. We may not be able to establish or maintain satisfactory relationships with State Farm, National Life Group or other distributors if our ratings, products or services are not competitive. Further, in light of recent adverse economic and market developments, our access to, the reliability of, and service levels provided by our non-affiliated distribution intermediaries may be adversely affected. Accordingly, our business, sales, redemptions, revenues and profitability may be materially affected. Our business operations and profitability could be adversely affected by inadequate performance of third-party relationships. We are dependent on certain third-party relationships to maintain essential business operations. These services include, but are not limited to, information technology infrastructure, application systems support, transfer agent and cash management services, custodial services, records storage management, backup tape management, security pricing services, medical information, payroll, and employee benefit programs. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to such third parties or us. An interruption in our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties or any material delay or inability to deliver essential services could materially affect our business operations and adversely affect our profitability. 15 We might be unable to attract or retain personnel who are key to our business. The success of our business is dependent to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition in the job market for professionals such as securities analysts, portfolio managers, sales personnel, underwriters, technology professionals and actuaries can be intense. In general, our employees are not subject to employment contracts or non-compete agreements. Any inability to retain our key employees, or attract and retain additional qualified employees, could have a negative impact on us. We face strong competition in our businesses from insurance companies and other financial services firms. This competition could impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability. We face strong competition in our businesses. We believe that our ability to compete is based on a number of factors, including product features, investment performance, service, price, distribution capabilities, scale, commission structure, name recognition and financial strength ratings. While there is no single company that we identify as a dominant competitor in our business overall, our actual and potential competitors include a large number of insurance companies and other financial services firms, many of which have advantages over us in one or more of the above competitive factors. Recent domestic and international consolidation in the financials services industry, driven by regulatory action and other opportunistic transactions in response to adverse economic and market developments, has resulted in an environment in which larger competitors with better financial strength ratings, greater financial resources, marketing and distribution capabilities may be better positioned comp etitively. Larger firms may be able better withstand further market disruption, able to offer more competitive pricing, and have superior access to debt and equity capital. We may also be subject to claims by competitors that our products infringe on their patents. In addition, some of our competitors are regulated differently than we are, which may give them a competitive advantage. If we fail to compete effectively in this environment, our profitability and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Because we are a holding company with no direct operations, the inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations and pay future dividends. We are a holding company, and we have no direct operations. Our principal asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses depends upon the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us. When economic or market conditions deteriorate, as they have recently, the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds may be impaired. This is especially true of our insurance company subsidiaries. Payments of dividends and advances or repayment of funds to us by our insurance company subsidiaries are restricted by the applicable laws of their respective jurisdictions, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds. For example, during 2008 the ability of Phoenix Life to pay dividends without special regula tory approval declined from $83.8 million to $53.4 million. Changes to these laws, especially those of New York State, the domiciliary state of Phoenix Life, could constrain the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us in sufficient amounts and at times necessary to meet our debt obligations and corporate expenses. Difficult market conditions have also affected our ability to pay dividends to the shareholders of our common stock. In February 2009, our Board of Directors determined that we will not pay an annual dividend on our common stock during fiscal year 2009. We may elect not to pay annual dividends in future fiscal years. We might need to fund deficiencies in our Closed Block, which would result in a reduction in net income and could result in a reduction in investments in our on-going business. We have allocated assets to our Closed Block to produce cash flows that, together with additional revenues from the Closed Block policies, are reasonably expected to support our obligations relating to these policies. Our allocation of assets to the Closed Block was based on actuarial assumptions about the performance of policies in the Closed Block and the continuation of the non-guaranteed policyholder dividend scales in effect for 2000, as well as assumptions about the investment earnings the Closed Block assets will generate over time. Since actual performance is likely to be different from these assumptions, it is possible that the cash flows generated by the Closed Block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies included in the Closed Block will prove insufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies even if the non-guaranteed policyholder dividend scale were to be reduced. If this were to occur, we would have to fund the resulting shortfall from assets outside of the Closed Block, which could adversely affect our profitability. 16 Changes in tax laws may decrease sales and profitability of products and increase our tax costs. Under current federal and state income tax law, certain products we offer, primarily life insurance and annuities, receive favorable tax treatment. This favorable treatment may give certain of our products a competitive advantage over noninsurance products. Congress from time to time considers legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance and annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of our products making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addi tion, changes in the federal estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning. We also benefit from certain tax benefits, including but not limited to, performance-based compensation that exceeds $1.0 million, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends-received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions. Congress, as well as foreign, state and local governments, also consider from time to time legislation that could modify or eliminate these benefits, thereby increasing our tax costs. If such legislation were to be adopted, our consolidated net income or loss could decline. There can be no assurance that actions and initiatives of the U.S. Government, including those that we elect to participate in, will improve adverse economic and market conditions or our business, financial condition and results of operations. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, the U.S. government has taken, and may continue to take, various measures, including, but not limited to, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. The U.S. Treasury and the bank regulatory agencies have also announced coordinated programs to invest in securities issued by qualifying U.S. financial institutions pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) administered by the Office of Financial Stability and to guarantee senior debt of all FDIC insured institutions and their qualifying holding companies , as well as deposits in non-interest bearing transaction accounts. The TARP program involves the issuance by qualifying institutions of preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock to the U.S. Treasury. We have been approved to become a savings and loan holding company, have submitted an application to participate in the CPP and are currently considering whether we would elect to participate in the event our application is granted. Participation in the CPP currently would require that we complete the acquisition of a savings and loan company, submit to regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision and adopt certain restrictions on our executive compensation practices, which may affect our business. The U.S. government has taken, or is considering taking, other monetary and fiscal policy actions to address the financial crisis that could further impact our business. There is no guarantee that past, present or future actions taken by the U.S. government will achieve their intended effect and we cann ot predict with any certainty the effect these actions will have on the economy or the financial markets, or on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Potential changes in federal and state regulation may increase our business costs and required capital levels, which could adversely affect our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. This is particularly the case given recent adverse economic and market developments. Moreover, they are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities. These authorities include foreign regulators, state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the U.S. Department of Justice, and state attorneys general. In light of recent events involving certain financial institutions and the current financial crisis, it is possible that the U.S. government will heighten its oversight of the financial services industry, including possibly through a federal system of insurance regulation. In addition, it is possible that these authorities may adopt enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises in the financial services in dustry and to assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. We cannot predict whether this or other regulatory proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such regulation could have on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity. 17 Each of the authorities that regulate us exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may, even absent any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business. State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and licensed. State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: · licensing companies and agents to transact business; · calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; · mandating certain insurance benefits; regulating certain premium rates; reviewing and approving policy forms; · regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; · establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; · fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; · approving changes in control of insurance companies; · restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and · regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. Changes in all of these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Compliance with these laws and regulations is also time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance costs and other expenses of doing business, thus having an adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could result in financial losses or harm to our businesses. We are regularly involved in litigation and arbitration, both as a defendant and as a plaintiff. For example, in the last few years we have been involved in disputes relating to certain portions of our discontinued group accident and health reinsurance business. In addition, various regulatory bodies regularly make inquiries of us and, from time to time, conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws, securities laws, and laws governing the activities of broker-dealers. During the past several years, there has been a significant increase in federal and state regulatory activity relating to financial services companies, with a number of recent regulatory inquiries focusing on late-trading, market timing and valuation issues. Financial services companies have also been the subject of broad industry inquiries by state regulators and attorneys general which do not appear to be company-specific. We have had inquiries relating to mark et timing and distribution practices in the past, and we continue to cooperate with the applicable regulatory authorities in these matters. While no regulatory authority has ever taken action against us with regard to these inquiries, we may be subject to further related or unrelated inquiries or actions in the future. In light of recent events involving certain financial institutions, it is possible that the U.S. government will heighten its oversight of the financial services industry in general or of the insurance industry in particular. Further, recent adverse economic and market events may have the effect of encouraging litigation, arbitration and regulatory action in response to the increased frequency and magnitude of investment losses, which may result in unfavorable judgments, awards and settlements, regulatory fines and an increase in our related legal expenses. 18 It is not feasible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all legal or regulatory proceedings or to provide reasonable ranges of potential losses. We believe that the outcomes of our litigation and regulatory matters are not likely, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. However, given the large or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation and regulatory matters, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or guidance issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board. For example, the U.S. government, under the EESA, conducted an investigation of fair value accounting during the fourth quarter of 2008 and has granted the SEC the authority to suspend fair value accounting for any registrant or group of registrants in its discretion. Similar actions may take place in the future. The impact of such actions on registrants who apply fair value accounting cannot be readily determined at this time; however, actions taken could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of companies, including ours, that apply fair value accounting. It is possible that these and other future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could significantly affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the spin-off of our former asset management business. On December 31, 2008 we spun off our former asset management business through a dividend of the stock of Virtus Investment Partners, Inc. (“Virtus”) to our stockholders. The spin-off and related transactions pose certain risks. Additionally, our asset management business provides certain benefits, the absence of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. Risks associated with our decision to spin off the asset management business into an independent publicly-traded company include, but are not limited to, the following: · We expect to take additional actions to reduce expenses that were formerly allocated to the asset management business. Our failure to effectively and expeditiously achieve these savings could increase our expense levels and thereby depress our profitability. · We are a smaller, less diversified company. We now have fewer sources of liquidity in our holding company, and our primary source of liquidity is dividends from our regulated life insurance subsidiary. These dividends are subject to the earnings of our subsidiary and are restricted by the applicable laws of New York state. Constraints on the dividend capacity of our subsidiary could adversely affect our ability to meet holding company obligations. · We have certain mutual rights and responsibilities related to agreements executed in connection with the spin-off of Virtus, including, but not limited to, a separation agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and a loan agreement related to intercompany debt that was outstanding prior to the spin-off. If Virtus is unwilling or unable to meet its obligations under these agreements, our business, financial position or operating results may be adversely affected. We reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to improve our internal controls, our financial results may not be accurately reported. Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting designed to ensure proper accounting for income taxes, including the allocation of its income tax provision (benefit) among income from continuing operations, income from discontinued operations and other comprehensive loss. As a result of this material weakness, management determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2008. The material weakness is described in Item 9A entitled “CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This material weakness, or difficulties encountered in implementing new or improved controls or remediation, could prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results, result in material misstatements in our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligatio ns. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of December 31, 2008, the Company had no unresolved SEC staff comments regarding its periodic or current reports. 