RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Operations Competition in the telecommunications industry is intense and could adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our operations Our businesses face substantial competition from other wireless providers, fixed-line telephone companies and, increasingly, other telecommunications providers such as cable, paging, trunking and Internet companies. Competition in our markets has intensified in recent periods, and we expect that it will continue to intensify in the future as a result of the entry of new competitors, the development of new technologies, products and services, and the auction of additional spectrum. We also expect the current consolidation trend in the telecommunications industry to continue, as companies respond to the need for cost reduction and additional spectrum. This trend may result in larger competitors with greater financial, technical, promotional and other resources to compete with our businesses. Telefónica, S.A. (“Telefónica”), which has important operations in Mexico and Brazil, as well as other of our markets, is our largest regional competitor. Among other things, our competitors could: • provide increased handset subsidies; • offer higher commissions to retailers; • provide free airtime or other services (such as Internet access); • offer services at lower costs through double, triple and quadruple play packages or other pricing strategies; • expand their networks faster; or • develop and deploy improved technologies faster. Competition can lead us to increase advertising and promotional spending and to reduce prices for services and handsets. These developments may lead to smaller operating margins, greater choices for customers, possible consumer confusion and increasing movement of customers among competitors, which may make it difficult for us to retain customers or add new customers. The cost of adding new customers may also continue to increase, reducing profitability even if customer growth continues. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our coverage, the quality of our network and service, our rates, customer service, marketing, our success in selling double, triple and quadruple play packages and our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry, including new services and technologies, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors. If we are unable to respond to competition and compensate for declining prices by adding new customers, increasing usage and offering new services, our revenues and profitability could decline. Governmental or regulatory actions could hurt our operations Our operations are subject to extensive government regulation and can be adversely affected by changes in law, regulation or regulatory policy. The licensing, construction, operation, sale, resale and interconnection arrangements of telecommunications systems in Latin America and elsewhere are regulated to varying degrees by government or regulatory authorities. Any of these authorities having jurisdiction over our businesses could adopt or change regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect our operations. In particular, the regulation of prices that operators may charge for their services could have a material adverse effect on us by reducing our profit margins. 6 Table of Contents These risks are significant in all of the markets in which we operate. In particular in Mexico we face government regulation and are the subject of investigations, including with respect to the mobile termination fees payable by local and long-distance operators to mobile operators and investigations into market power and monopolistic practices in the telecommunications sector. In April 2011, for example, following a regulatory inquiry initiated in 2006, the Federal Antitrust Commission (Comisión Federal de Competencia, or “Cofeco”) notified our subsidiary Radiomóvil Dipsa, S.A. de C.V. (“Telcel”) of a resolution imposing a fine of Ps.11,989 million for alleged “relative monopolistic pricing practices” (prácticas monopólicas relativas) that also constituted a repeat offense (reincidencia). Under applicable Mexican law, Cofeco can impose a penalty for a repeat offense equivalent to the highest of twice the fine applicable to a first-time offense, 10% of the offender’s total assets, and 10% of the offender’s total sales for its previous fiscal year. Otherwise, the applicable fine would have been an immaterial amount. Telcel contests both the determination that its pricing practices were monopolistic and the determination that there was a repeat offense. Telcel has submitted a petition for reconsideration (recurso de reconsideración) to Cofeco. Under Mexican law, the submission of this petition automatically suspends the effectiveness of the April 2011 resolution. Telcel also petitioned Cofeco to recuse its chairman from further participation in the matter in order to ensure an unbiased forum in view of the chairman’s public statements, and such petition for recusal was granted. Accordingly, Telcel’s petition for reconsideration will be decided by the remaining Cofeco commissioners during the second quarter of 2012. In March 2012, Telcel submitted to Cofeco, pursuant to the Mexican Competition Law (Ley Federal de Competencia Económica), a series of proposed undertakings related to the alleged relative monopolistic pricing practice to which the fine relates in order for the Cofeco to consider the adoption of such undertakings as part of the petition for reconsideration in order to eliminate the fine. The undertakings are: (i) the gradual reduction of the mobile termination rate Telcel charges for termination of voice traffic in its network to reach Ps.$0.3094 in 2014; (ii) use of the second as the applicable unit for measuring interconnection rates; (iii) publication of the reference interconnection terms (oferta pública de interconexión) applicable to its network; (iv) termination of all pending disputes related to the 2011 termination rate (Ps$0.3912) determined by Cofetel with those operators that agree to enter into an agreement based on the reference interconnection terms; (v) maintenance, as part of Telcel’s commercial offerings, of plans or promotions under which some of the minutes included in the plan or promotion can be used by the Telcel customer to call any fixed or mobile network at the same rate (without differentiating on-net and off-net); and (vi) an access to information agreement under which Cofeco can monitor compliance with Telcel’s undertakings. If Cofeco resolves to uphold its determination regarding the fine or any part of it, Telcel plans to seek an injunction (amparo) from a Mexican court against Cofeco’s resolution. While there can be no assurance, we believe that payment of a fine arising from the Cofeco’s resolution is not probable. It is, however, possible that Telcel will be unsuccessful in its legal challenges to the fine, in which event our financial position would be negatively affected. See “Regulation” under Item 4, “Legal Proceedings” under Item 8 and Note 17 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. In addition, changes in political administrations could lead to the adoption of policies concerning competition and taxation of communications services that may be detrimental to our operations throughout Latin America and the Caribbean. These restrictions, which may take the form of preferences for local over foreign ownership of communications licenses and assets, or for government over private ownership, may make it more cumbersome or impossible for us to continue to develop our businesses. These restrictions could result in our incurring losses of revenues and require capital investments, all of which could materially adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. Our failure to meet or maintain quality of service goals and standards could result in fines The terms of the concessions under which our subsidiaries operate require them to meet certain quality of service goals, including, for example, minimum call completion rates, maximum busy circuits rates, operator availability and responsiveness to repair requests. Failure to meet quality of service obligations in the past has resulted in the 7 Table of Contents imposition of fines by regulatory entities. Our ability to comply with these obligations in the future may be affected by factors beyond our control and, accordingly, we cannot assure that we will be able to comply with them. Dominant carrier regulations could hurt our business by limiting our ability to pursue competitive and profitable strategies Our regulators are authorized to impose specific requirements as to rates (including mobile termination rates), service quality and information on operators that are determined to have substantial market power in a specific market. We cannot predict what steps regulatory authorities might take in response to determinations regarding substantial market power in the countries in which we operate. However, adverse determinations against our subsidiaries could result in material fines, penalties or restrictions on our operations. We may face additional regulatory restrictions and scrutiny than those we have been subject to thus far as a result of our provision of combined services, including triple play services, following the acquisitions of Carso Global Telecom, S.A. de C.V. (“CGT”), including its subsidiary Teléfonos de México, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Telmex”), and Telmex Internacional, S.A. de C.V. (“Telmex Internacional”). We believe that if dominant carrier regulations are imposed on our business in the future, they will likely reduce our flexibility to adopt competitive market policies and impose specific tariff requirements or other special regulations on us, such as additional requirements regarding disclosure of information or quality of service. Any such new regulation could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We will have to acquire additional radio spectrum capacity in order to expand our customer base and maintain the quality of our wireless services Licensed radio spectrum is essential to our growth and the quality of our wireless services, not only for our global system for mobile communications (“GSM”) and universal mobile telecommunications systems (“UMTS”) networks, but also for the deployment of new generation networks to offer improved data and value-added services. We obtain most of our radio spectrum through auctions conducted by governments of the countries in which we operate. Participation in spectrum auctions in most these countries requires prior governmental authorization. Our inability to acquire additional radio spectrum capacity could affect our ability to compete successfully because it could result in, among other things, a decrease in the quality of our network and service and in our ability to meet the needs of our customers. In the event we are unable to acquire additional radio spectrum capacity, we can increase the density of our network by building more cell and switch sites, but such measures are costly and would be subject to local restrictions and approvals, and they would not fully meet our needs. Our concessions and licenses are for fixed terms, and conditions may be imposed on their renewal Our concessions and licenses have specified terms, ranging typically from 10 to 30 years, and are generally subject to renewal upon payment of a fee, but renewal is not assured. The loss of, or failure to renew, any one concession could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our ability to renew concessions and the terms of renewal are subject to a number of factors beyond our control, including the prevalent regulatory and political environment at the time of renewal. Fees are typically established at the time of renewal. As a condition for renewal, we may be required to agree to new and stricter terms and service requirements. If our concessions are not renewed, we are required to transfer the assets covered by the concession to the government, generally at fair market value, although certain jurisdictions provide for other valuation methodologies. In addition, the regulatory regimes and laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate permit the government to revoke our concessions under certain circumstances. In Mexico, for example, the Mexican 8 Table of Contents Telecommunications Law gives the government the right to expropriate our concessions or to take over the management of our networks, facilities and personnel in cases of imminent danger to national security, internal peace or the national economy, natural disasters and public unrest. We continue to look for acquisition opportunities, and any future acquisitions and related financings could have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition We continue to look for other investment opportunities in telecommunications companies worldwide, including in markets where we are already present, and we often have several possible acquisitions under consideration. Any future acquisitions and related financings could have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, but we cannot give any assurances that we will complete any of them. In addition, we may incur significant costs and expenses as we integrate these companies in our systems, controls and networks. We are subject to significant litigation Some of our subsidiaries are subject to significant litigation that if determined adversely to our interests, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Our significant litigation is described in “Regulation” under Item 4, “Legal Proceedings” under Item 8 and in Note 17 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. We are contesting significant tax assessments We and some of our subsidiaries have been notified of tax assessments for significant amounts by the tax authorities of the countries in which we operate, especially in Mexico and Brazil. The tax assessments relate to, among other things, alleged improperly taken deductions and underpayments. We are contesting these tax assessments in several administrative and legal proceedings, and our challenges are in various stages. If determined adversely to us, these proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. In addition, in some jurisdictions challenges to tax assessments require the posting of a bond or security for the contested amount, which may reduce our flexibility in operating our business. Our significant tax assessments are described in “Regulation” under Item 4, “Legal Proceedings” under Item 8 and in Note 17 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers and revenues We will need to continue to provide our subscribers with reliable service over our network. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include the following: • physical damage to access lines and fixed networks; • power surges or outages; • limitations on the use of our radiobases; • software defects; • natural disasters; • malicious actions, such as theft or misuse of customer data; and • disruptions beyond our control. In Brazil, for example, our satellite operations may be affected if we experience a delay in the launching of a new satellite to replace one of the satellites currently in use that is reaching the end of its operational life. Such delay may occur because of, among other reasons, construction delays, unavailability of launch vehicles launch failures. 9 Table of Contents We have instituted measures to reduce the risks. With respect to malicious actions, for example, we have installed backup technologies such as firewalls and virus scanners. However, there is no assurance that any measures we implement will be effective in preventing disruptions to our network. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose subscribers and incur additional expenses. If our churn rate increases, our business could be negatively affected The cost of acquiring a new subscriber is much higher than the cost of maintaining an existing subscriber. Accordingly, subscriber deactivations, or “churn,” could have a material negative impact on our operating income, even if we are able to obtain one new subscriber for each lost subscriber. A substantial majority of our subscribers are prepaid, and we do not have long-term contracts with them. Our weighted monthly average churn rate on a consolidated basis was 3.2% for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 3.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011. If we experience an increase in our churn rate, our ability to achieve revenue growth could be materially impaired. In addition, a decline in general economic conditions could lead to an increase in churn, particularly among our prepaid subscribers. We depend on key suppliers and vendors to provide equipment that we need to operate our business We depend upon various key suppliers and vendors, including Apple, Nokia, Research in Motion, Sony-Ericsson, Motorola, LG, Samsung, Huawei, Alcatel-Lucent and ZTE to provide us with handsets, network equipment or services, which we need to expand and operate our business. If these suppliers or vendors fail to provide equipment or service to us on a timely basis, we could experience disruptions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, we might be unable to satisfy the requirements contained on our concessions. Our ability to pay dividends and repay debt depends on our subsidiaries’ ability to transfer income and dividends to us We are a holding company with no significant assets other than the shares of our subsidiaries and our holdings of cash and cash equivalents. Our ability to pay dividends and repay debt depends on the continued transfer to us of dividends and other income from our subsidiaries. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other transfers to us may be limited by various regulatory, contractual and legal constraints that affect them. We may fail to realize the benefits anticipated from acquisitions we make from time to time The business growth opportunities, revenue benefits, cost savings and other benefits we anticipated to result from our acquisitions may not be achieved as expected, or may be delayed. For example, we may be unable to fully implement our business plans and strategies for the combined businesses due to regulatory limitations, and we may face regulatory restrictions in our provision of combined services in some of the countries in which we operate. To the extent that we incur higher integration costs or achieve lower revenue benefits or fewer cost savings than expected, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry Generally Changes in the telecommunications industry could affect our future financial performance The telecommunications industry continues to experience significant changes as new technologies are developed that offer subscribers an array of choices for their communications needs. These changes include, among others, regulatory changes, evolving industry standards, ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, shorter development cycles for new products, and changes in end-user needs and 10 Table of Contents preferences. In Mexico and in the other countries in which we conduct business, there is uncertainty as to the pace and extent of growth in subscriber demand, and as to the extent to which prices for airtime, broadband access, Pay TV and fixed line rental may continue to decline. If we are unable to meet future advances in competing technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost, we could lose subscribers to our competitors. In general, the development of new services in our industry requires us to anticipate and respond to the varied and continually changing demands of our subscribers. We may not be able to accurately predict technological trends or the success of new services in the market. In addition, there could be legal or regulatory restraints to our introduction of new services. If these services fail to gain acceptance in the marketplace, or if costs associated with implementation and completion of the introduction of these services materially increase, our ability to retain and attract subscribers could be adversely affected. In the wireless industry in particular there are four existing digital technologies, none of which is compatible with the others except for long term evolution (“LTE”), which is compatible with GSM. In the past, Telcel and certain of our international subsidiaries used time division multiple access (“TDMA”) technology for their digital networks, while certain of our other international subsidiaries used code division multiple access (“CDMA”) as their digital wireless technology. We introduced GSM technology in all of our markets (excluding the United States). Also, some of our subsidiaries launched new networks using the UMTS and high-speed packet access protocol (“HSPA”) third generation (“3G”) technology between 2007 and 2011. We expect to complete the deployment of the 3G technology in the following years. However, if the technologies that gain widespread acceptance in the future are not compatible with the technologies we use, we may be required to make capital expenditures in excess of our current forecasts in order to upgrade and replace our technology and infrastructure. The intellectual property rights utilized by us, our suppliers or service providers may infringe on intellectual property rights owned by others Some of our products and services use intellectual property that we own or license from others. We also provide content services we receive from content producers and distributors, such as ring tones, text games, video games, video, including TV programs and movies, wallpapers or screensavers, and outsource services to service providers, including billing and customer care functions, that incorporate or utilize intellectual property. We and some of our suppliers, content distributors and service providers have received, and may receive in the future, assertions and claims from third parties that the content, products or software utilized by us or our suppliers, content producers and distributors and service providers infringe on the patents or other intellectual property rights of these third parties. These claims could require us or an infringing supplier, content distributor or service provider to cease engaging in certain activities, including selling, offering and providing the relevant products and services. Such claims and assertions also could subject us to costly litigation and significant liabilities for damages or royalty payments, or require us to cease certain activities or to cease selling certain products and services. Concerns about health risks relating to the use of wireless handsets and base stations may adversely affect our business Portable communications devices have been alleged to pose health risks, including cancer, due to radio frequency emissions from these devices. Lawsuits have been filed in the United States against certain participants in the wireless industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of wireless phone usage, and our subsidiaries may be subject to similar litigation in the future. Research and studies are ongoing, and there can be no assurance that further research and studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concerns. Any negative findings in these studies could adversely affect the use of wireless handsets and, as a result, our future financial performance. 11 Table of Contents Developments in the telecommunications sector have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of certain of our assets We review on an annual basis, or more frequently where the circumstances require, the value of each of our assets and subsidiaries, to assess whether those carrying values can be supported by the future cash flows expected to be derived from such assets. Whenever we consider that due to changes in the economic, regulatory, business or political environment, our goodwill, intangible assets or fixed assets may be impaired, we consider the necessity of performing certain valuation tests, which may result in impairment charges. The recognition of impairments of tangible, intangible and financial assets could adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to special risks in connection with our international call services Revenues from international service in part reflect payments under bilateral agreements between us and foreign carriers, which are influenced by the international tariff and trade regulations and cover virtually all international calls to and from the countries in which we operate. Various factors, including unauthorized international traffic (commonly known as bypass), increases in the proportion of outgoing to incoming calls and the levels of settlement prices could affect the amount of net settlement payments from U.S. or other international carriers to us in future years. Risks Relating to Our Controlling Shareholders, Capital Structure and Transactions with Affiliates Members of one family may be deemed to control us According to reports of beneficial ownership of our shares filed with the SEC, Carlos Slim Helú, together with his sons and daughters (together, the “Slim Family”), including his two sons who are co-chairs of our board of directors, Patrick Slim Domit and Carlos Slim Domit, may be deemed to control us. The Slim Family may be able to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors and to determine the outcome of other actions requiring a vote of our shareholders, except in very limited cases that require a vote of the holders of L Shares. The interests of the Slim Family may diverge from the interests of our other investors. We have significant transactions with affiliates We engage in transactions with certain subsidiaries of Grupo Carso, S.A.B. de C.V. and Grupo Financiero Inbursa, S.A.B. de C.V., which are affiliates of América Móvil, and of our shareholder AT&T, Inc. Many of these transactions occur in the ordinary course of business. Transactions with affiliates may create the potential for conflicts of interest. We also make investments together with affiliated companies, sell our investments to related parties and buy investments from related parties. For more information about our transactions with affiliates see “Related Party Transactions” under Item 7. Our bylaws restrict transfers of shares in some circumstances Our bylaws provide that any acquisition or transfer of more than 10% of our capital stock by any person or group of persons acting together requires the approval of our Board of Directors. If you acquire or transfer more than 10% of our capital stock, you will not be able to do so without the approval of our Board of Directors. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Mexico are different from those in the United States Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those in the United States. In particular, the law concerning fiduciary duties of directors is not as fully developed as in other jurisdictions, there is no procedure for class actions, and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for minority shareholders of América Móvil 12 Table of Contents to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a company incorporated in another jurisdiction, such as the United States. Holders of L Shares and L Share ADSs have limited voting rights Our bylaws provide that holders of L Shares are not permitted to vote except on such limited matters as, among others, the transformation or merger of América Móvil or the cancellation of registration of the L Shares with the National Securities Registry (Registro Nacional de Valores, or “RNV”) maintained by CNBV or any stock exchange on which they are listed. If you hold L Shares or L Share ADSs, you will not be able to vote on most matters, including the declaration of dividends that are subject to a shareholder vote in accordance with our bylaws. Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings, and they may only vote through the depositary Under our bylaws, a shareholder is required to deposit its shares with a custodian in order to attend a shareholders’ meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement, and accordingly is not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings. A holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs, in accordance with procedures provided for in the deposit agreements, but a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so. Mexican law and our bylaws restrict the ability of non-Mexican shareholders to invoke the protection of their governments with respect to their rights as shareholders As required by Mexican law, our bylaws provide that non-Mexican shareholders shall be considered as Mexicans in respect of their ownership interests in América Móvil and shall be deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of their governments in certain circumstances. Under this provision, a non-Mexican shareholder is deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of his own government by asking such government to interpose a diplomatic claim against the Mexican government with respect to the shareholder’s rights as a shareholder, but is not deemed to have waived any other rights it may have, including any rights under the U.S. securities laws, with respect to its investment in América Móvil. If you invoke such governmental protection in violation of this provision, your shares could be forfeited to the Mexican government. Our bylaws may only be enforced in Mexico Our bylaws provide that legal actions relating to the execution, interpretation or performance of the bylaws may be brought only in Mexican courts. As a result, it may be difficult for non-Mexican shareholders to enforce their shareholder rights pursuant to the bylaws. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons América Móvil is a sociedad anónima bursátil de capital variable organized under the laws of Mexico, with its principal place of business (domicilio social) in Mexico City, and most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets and their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Mexico, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. 13 Table of Contents You may not be entitled to participate in future preemptive rights offerings Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as part of certain capital increases, we must grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage in América Móvil. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. Our shareholders do not have preemptive rights in certain circumstances such as mergers, convertible debentures, public offers and placement of repurchased shares. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of ADSs or holders of L Shares or A Shares in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increase unless we file a registration statement with the SEC, with respect to that future issuance of shares. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC and any other factors that we consider important to determine whether we will file such a registration statement. We cannot assure you that we will file a registration statement with the SEC to allow holders of ADSs or U.S. holders of L Shares or A Shares to participate in a preemptive rights offering. As a result, the equity interest of such holders in América Móvil may be diluted proportionately. In addition, under current Mexican law, it is not practicable for the depositary to sell preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds from such sales to ADS holders. Risks Relating to Developments in Mexico and Other Countries Latin American and Caribbean economic, political and social conditions may adversely affect our business Our financial performance may be significantly affected by general economic, political and social conditions in the markets where we operate, particularly in Mexico, Brazil, Colombia and Central America. Many countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, including Mexico, Brazil and Argentina have suffered significant economic, political and social crises in the past, and these events may occur again in the future. We cannot predict whether changes in political administrations will result in changes in governmental policy and whether such changes will affect our business. Factors related to economic, political and social conditions that could affect our performance include: • significant governmental influence over local economies; • substantial fluctuations in economic growth; • high levels of inflation; • changes in currency values; • exchange controls or restrictions on expatriation of earnings; • high domestic interest rates; • wage and price controls; • changes in governmental economic or tax policies; • imposition of trade barriers; • unexpected changes in regulation; and • overall political, social and economic instability. Adverse economic, political and social conditions in Latin America may inhibit demand for telecommunication services and create uncertainty regarding our operating environment or may affect our ability to renew our licenses and concessions, to maintain or increase our market share or profitability and may have an adverse impact on future acquisition efforts, which could have a material adverse effect on our company. 14 Table of Contents Our business may be especially affected by conditions in Mexico and Brazil, our two principal markets. During 2011, Mexico’s gross domestic product (“GDP”) increased by 3.9%, compared to an increase of 5.5% in 2010. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the National Consumer Price Index published by Banco de México, was 3.8% for 2011 and 4.4% in 2010. According to data published by the Brazilian Central Bank (Banco Central do Brasil), during 2011, Brazil’s GDP increased by 2.7% in 2011, compared to an increase of 7.5% in 2010. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the Brazilian National Consumer Price Index, was 6.2% for 2011 and 5.9% in 2010. Depreciation or fluctuation of the currencies in which we conduct operations relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations We are affected by fluctuations in the value of the currencies in which we conduct operations compared to the U.S. dollar, in which a substantial portion of our indebtedness is denominated. Changes in the value of the various currencies in which we conduct operations against the Mexican peso, which we use as our reporting currency in our financial statements, and against the U.S. dollar may result in exchange losses or gains on our net U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness and accounts payable. In 2010, changes in currency exchange rates led us to report net foreign exchange gains of Ps. 5,581 million. In 2011, we reported net foreign exchange losses of Ps. 22,395 million. In addition, currency fluctuations between the Mexican peso and the currencies of our non-Mexican subsidiaries affect our results as reported in Mexican pesos. Currency fluctuations are expected to continue to affect our financial income and expense. Major devaluation or depreciation of any such currencies may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer or to convert such currencies into U.S. dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness. For example, although the Mexican government does not currently restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico, it could, however, institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future. Similarly, the Brazilian government may impose temporary restrictions on the conversion of Brazilian reais into foreign currencies and on the remittance to foreign investors of proceeds from investments in Brazil whenever there is a serious imbalance in Brazil’s balance of payments or a reason to foresee a serious imbalance. Developments in other countries may affect the market price of our securities and adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing The market value of securities of Mexican companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other countries, including the United States, the European Union and emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. Crises in the United States, the European Union and emerging market countries may diminish investor interest in securities of Mexican issuers, including us. This could materially and adversely affect the market price of our securities, and could also make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms or at all. 15 Table of Contents 