RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Businesses Substantial and increasing competition in the wireless industry could adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our business Our wireless businesses face substantial competition, typically from at least one other wireless provider, and increasingly from multiple providers. We also face competition from fixed-line telephone companies and, increasingly, other service providers such as cable, paging and Internet companies. Competition in our markets has intensified in recent periods. We expect that competition will continue to intensify in the future as a result of the entry of new competitors, the development of new technologies, products and services, and the auction of additional spectrum. We also expect the current consolidation trend in the wireless industry to continue, as companies respond to the need for cost reduction and additional spectrum. This trend may result in larger competitors with greater financial, technical, promotional and other resources to compete with our businesses. In January 2005, Telefónica Móviles completed the acquisition from BellSouth of wireless operators in Venezuela, Colombia, Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Guatemala, Uruguay and Nicaragua. With this acquisition, Telefónica Móviles, which has important operations in Mexico and Brazil, as well as other of our markets, consolidated its position as our largest regional competitor. Among other things, our competitors could: • provide increased handset subsidies; • offer higher commissions to retailers; • provide free airtime or other services (such as Internet access); • expand their networks faster; or • develop and deploy improved wireless technologies faster. We anticipate that competition will lead to increases in advertising and promotional spending and reductions in prices for services and handsets. In addition, portability requirements, which enable customers to switch wireless providers without changing their wireless numbers, have been introduced in some of our markets and may be introduced in other markets in the near future, including Mexico and Brazil. These developments may lead to smaller operating margins, greater choices for customers, possible consumer confusion and increasing movement of customers among competitors, which may make it difficult for us to retain customers or add new customers. The cost of adding new customers may also continue to increase, reducing profitability even if customer growth continues. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on customer service, on marketing and on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry, including new services and technologies, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors. If we are unable to respond to competition and compensate for declining prices by adding new customers, increasing usage and offering new services, our revenues and profitability could decline. Changes in government regulation could hurt our businesses Our businesses are subject to extensive government regulation and can be adversely affected by changes in law, regulation or regulatory policy. The licensing, construction, operation, sale, resale and interconnection arrangements of wireless telecommunications systems in Latin America and elsewhere are regulated to varying degrees by government or regulatory authorities. Any of these authorities having jurisdiction over our businesses 6 Table of Contents could adopt or change regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect our operations. In particular, the regulation of prices operators may charge for their services could have a material adverse effect on us by reducing our profit margins. In Mexico, Telcel’s business is subject to extensive government regulation, principally by the Federal Telecommunications Commission (Comisión Federal de Telecomunicaciones, or “Cofetel”), the Federal Competition Commission (Comisión Federal de Competencia, or “Cofeco”) and the Federal Consumer Bureau (Procuraduría Federal del Consumidor, or “Profeco”), and may be adversely affected by changes in law or by actions of Mexican regulatory authorities. The Mexican Communications Ministry (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes) is authorized to impose specific rate and other requirements on any wireless operator that is determined by Cofeco to have substantial market power. While no such determination has been made with respect to the wireless market in Mexico, we can provide no assurances that the regulatory authorities will not make such a determination with respect to Telcel and impose specific tariff requirements or other special regulations on us, such as additional requirements regarding disclosure of information or quality of service. Any such new regulation could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Cofetel recently issued regulations that, effective October 2006, extend the “calling party pays” system to all calls terminating in mobile phones in Mexico. Currently, the “calling party pays” system applies to calls within a local area. Under the new regulations, all airtime regardless of the location within Mexico of the recipient of the call will be paid by the calling party. It is unclear how these regulations will affect our business and results. We believe these regulations could result in an increase in usage and number of subscribers, but could reduce revenues per call. Many Latin American countries have recently deregulated and privatized the provision of communications services, including wireless services, and many of the laws, regulations and licenses that regulate our businesses became effective only recently. Consequently, there is only a limited history that would allow us to predict the impact of these legal regulations on our future operations. Furthermore, the Brazilian national telecommunications agency (ANATEL) has initiated hearings to discuss the possible adoption of cost-based methods for determining interconnection fees charged by operators belonging to an economic group with significant market power. It is not yet clear how the determination of whether an operator belongs to an economic group with significant market share would be made for purposes of this proposed regulation. Given the size of our operations in Brazil, we may be deemed to belong to an economic group with significant market power. If these methods are ultimately adopted and we are deemed to be an economic group with significant market power, the revenues and results of operations of our Brazilian operations may be affected. In addition, changes in political administrations could lead to the adoption of policies concerning competition, privatization and taxation of communications services that may be detrimental to our operations throughout Latin America. These restrictions, which may take the form of preferences for local over foreign ownership of communications licenses and assets, or for government over private ownership, may make it impossible for us to continue to develop our businesses. These restrictions could result in our incurring losses of revenues and require capital investments all of which could materially adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. We will, in the future, either have to acquire additional radio spectrum capacity or build more cell and switch sites in Mexico in order to expand our customer base and maintain the quality of our services Licensed radio spectrum is essential to our growth and the quality of our services, particularly for GSM services. In order to utilize less spectrum, we could increase the density of our network by building more cell and switch sites, but such measures could be costly and would be subject to local restrictions and approvals. In 2005, we acquired the right to use 10 megahertz in the 1900 megahertz spectrum in each of Mexico’s nine regions, through a public auction. We also bid and won the auction for an additional 10 megahertz of capacity in three principal regions, but subsequent to the auction Cofeco challenged the award of this additional spectrum based on restrictions imposed by Cofeco on the amount of overall spectrum that could be awarded to 7 Table of Contents bidders. We challenged Cofeco’s determination in court, and recently lost (as well as Telefónica Móviles). As a result, we will not be able to acquire the right to use this additional spectrum, which may now be offered by Cofetel to other bidders in future auctions. We cannot assure that we will be allowed to participate in any such new auctions. Participation in spectrum auctions requires prior governmental authorization (including prior approval from Cofeco). Our concessions and licenses are subject to termination The terms of our concessions and licenses typically require the operator to meet specified network build-out requirements and schedules, as well as to maintain minimum quality, service and coverage standards. If we fail to comply with these and other criteria, the result could be revocation of our concessions or licenses, the imposition of fines or other government actions. Our ability to comply with these criteria is subject in certain respects to factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our international businesses will be able to comply fully with the terms of their concessions or licenses. In Mexico, the Mexican federal telecommunications law (Ley Federal de Telecomunicaciones, or the “Telecommunications Law”) and Telcel’s concessions include various provisions under which the concessions may be terminated by the Mexican Communications Ministry before their scheduled expiration dates. Among other things, these concessions may be terminated if we fail to meet specified network build-out requirements and schedules or to maintain minimum quality, service and coverage standards by, for example, interrupting service without justified cause or failing to meet interconnection requirements. Also, the Telecommunications Law gives certain rights to the Mexican government, including the right to revoke the concessions pursuant to an expropriation or to take over the management of Telcel’s networks, facilities and personnel in cases of imminent danger to national security, internal peace or the national economy, natural disasters and public unrest. The loss of any one concession could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have invested in countries in which we have limited experience, and we may be unsuccessful in addressing the new challenges and risks they present We have invested in a growing number of telecommunications businesses outside our historical activity of providing wireless telecommunications services in Mexico, and we plan to continue to do so in the rest of Latin America. Whereas Mexico accounted for 63.5% of our total wireless subscribers as of December 31, 2002 and 71% of our consolidated revenues during 2002, it accounted for 38.5% of our total wireless subscribers as of December 31, 2005 and 49.2% of our consolidated revenues during 2005. During that period, Brazil, as a result of rapid subscriber growth and the acquisitions of BSE and BCP, increased its share of our total wireless subscribers from 16.4% as of December 31, 2002 to 20% as of December 31, 2005, and it accounted for 16.8% of our consolidated revenues during 2005. These investments outside Mexico have been made in some countries in which we have little experience and may involve risks to which we have not previously been exposed. Some of the investments are in countries that may present different or greater risks, including from competition, than Mexico. We cannot assure you that these investments will be successful. We are subject to significant litigation Some of our subsidiaries (including Telcel) are subject to significant litigation, which if determined adversely to our interests may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. In Mexico, Telcel is subject to proceedings for alleged antitrust practices. We cannot predict how these proceedings will be resolved and, if resolved contrary to our interests, what fines or restrictions may be imposed on our Mexican operations. These restrictions, which could be imposed by means of special regulations, may include significant limitations on our ability to conduct business as currently conducted or require us to divest of assets. Telcel is also subject to proceedings regarding the calculation of interconnection fees. Our significant litigation is described in “Legal Proceedings” under Item 8. 8 Table of Contents A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers and revenues We will need to continue to provide our subscribers with reliable service over our network. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include the following: • physical damage to access lines; • power surges or outages; • limitations on the use of our radiobases; • software defects; and • disruptions beyond our control. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose subscribers and incur additional expenses. If our current churn rate increases, our business could be negatively affected The cost of acquiring a new subscriber is much higher than the cost of maintaining an existing subscriber. Accordingly, subscriber deactivations, or churn, could have a material negative impact on our operating income, even if we are able to obtain one new subscriber for each lost subscriber. Because a substantial majority of our subscribers are prepaid, we do not have long-term contracts with those subscribers. Our weighted monthly average churn rate on a consolidated basis for the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 was 2.81% and 2.90%, respectively. If we experience an increase in our churn rate, our ability to achieve revenue growth could be materially impaired. In addition, a decline in general economic conditions could lead to an increase in churn, particularly among our prepaid subscribers. Risks Relating to the Wireless Industry Generally Changes in the wireless industry could affect our future financial performance The wireless communications industry is experiencing significant change. These changes include, among others, regulatory changes, the increasing pace of digital upgrades in existing analog wireless systems, evolving industry standards, ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, shorter development cycles for new products, and changes in end-user needs and preferences. In Mexico and in the other countries in which we conduct business, there is uncertainty as to the pace and extent of growth in subscriber demand, and as to the extent to which prices for airtime and line rental may continue to decline. There are three existing digital technologies for wireless communications, none of which is compatible with the others. In the past, Telcel and certain of our international businesses used time division multiple access (TDMA) technology for their digital networks, while certain of our other international businesses used code division multiple access (CDMA) as their digital wireless technology. We are introducing global system for mobile communications (GSM) technology in all of our markets. Telcel launched GSM services in Mexico in October 2002, and we have since launched GSM services in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Guatemala, Uruguay, Honduras, Nicaragua and El Salvador and are currently deploying or expanding GSM networks in Paraguay, Chile and Peru. If future wireless technologies that gain widespread acceptance are not compatible with the technologies we use, we may be required to make capital expenditures in excess of our current forecasts in order to upgrade and replace our technology and infrastructure. 9 Table of Contents We may incur significant losses from wireless fraud and from our failure to successfully manage collections Our wireless businesses incur losses and costs associated with the unauthorized use of these wireless networks, particularly their analog cellular networks. These costs include administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. Fraud also affects interconnection costs, capacity costs, administrative costs and payments to other carriers for unbillable fraudulent roaming. In the year ended December 31, 2005, Telcel refunded to its customers approximately Ps. 1.8 million due to wireless fraud. Although we seek to combat this problem through the deployment of anti-fraud technologies and other measures, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be effective or that fraud will not result in material costs for us in the future. Cloning, which is one form of wireless fraud, involves the use of scanners and other electronic devices to obtain illegally telephone numbers and electronic serial numbers during cellular transmission. Stolen telephone and serial number combinations can be programmed into a cellular phone and used to obtain improper access to cellular networks. Roaming fraud occurs when a phone programmed with a number stolen from one of our subscribers is used to place fraudulent calls from another carrier’s market, resulting in a roaming fee charged to us that cannot be collected from the subscriber. Concerns about health risks relating to the use of wireless handsets and base stations may adversely affect our business Media and other reports have linked radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets and base stations to various health concerns, including cancer, and to interference with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Although we do not know of any definitive studies showing that radio frequency emissions raise health concerns, concerns over radio frequency emissions may discourage the use of wireless handsets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Government authorities could also increase regulation of wireless handsets and base stations as a result of these concerns. In addition, lawsuits have been filed in the United States against certain participants in the wireless industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of wireless phone usage, and our businesses may be subject to similar litigation in the future. Research and studies are ongoing, and there can be no assurance that further research and studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concerns. Any negative findings in these studies could adversely affect the use of wireless handsets and, as a result, our future financial performance. Risks Relating to Our Controlling Shareholders, Capital Structure and Transactions with Affiliates We are controlled by one shareholder A majority of our voting shares are directly or indirectly owned by América Telecom, S.A. de C.V. According to reports of beneficial ownership of our shares filed with the SEC, Carlos Slim Helú and certain members of his immediate family, including his son and chairman of our board of directors, Patrick Slim Domit, together own a majority of the voting stock of América Telecom. América Telecom is able to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors and to determine the outcome of other actions requiring a vote of our shareholders, except in very limited cases that require a vote of the holders of L Shares. We cannot assure you that América Telecom will not take actions that are inconsistent with your interests. We have significant transactions with affiliates We engage in transactions with Teléfonos de México, S.A. de C.V., or “Telmex,” and certain of its subsidiaries and with certain subsidiaries of Grupo Carso, S.A. de C.V. and Grupo Financiero Inbursa, S.A. de C.V., all of which are affiliates of América Móvil. Many of these transactions occur in the ordinary course of business and, in the case of transactions with Telmex, are subject to applicable telecommunications regulations in Mexico. Transactions with affiliates may create the potential for conflicts of interest. 10 Table of Contents The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Mexico are different from those in the United States Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those in the United States. In particular, the law concerning fiduciary duties of directors is not as fully developed as in other jurisdictions, there is no procedure for class actions, and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for minority shareholders of América Móvil to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a company incorporated in another jurisdiction, such as the United States. Holders of L Shares and L Share ADSs have limited voting rights, and holders of ADSs may vote only through the depositary Our bylaws provide that holders of L Shares are not permitted to vote except on such limited matters as the transformation or merger of América Móvil or the cancellation of registration of the L Shares with the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission or any stock exchange on which they are listed. If you hold L Shares or L Share ADSs, you will not be able to vote on most matters, including the declaration of dividends, that are subject to a shareholder vote in accordance with our bylaws. Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings, and they may only vote through the depositary Under Mexican law, a shareholder is required to deposit its shares with a Mexican custodian in order to attend a shareholders’ meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement, and accordingly is not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings. A holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs, in accordance with procedures provided for in the deposit agreements, but a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so. You may not be entitled to participate in future preemptive rights offerings Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as part of a capital increase, we generally must grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage in América Móvil. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of ADSs or holders of L Shares or A Shares in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increase unless we file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or “SEC”, with respect to that future issuance of shares. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC and any other factors that we consider important to determine whether we will file such a registration statement. We cannot assure you that we will file a registration statement with the SEC to allow holders of ADSs or U.S. holders of L Shares or A Shares to participate in a preemptive rights offering. As a result, the equity interest of such holders in América Móvil may be diluted proportionately. In addition, under current Mexican law, it is not practicable for the depositary to sell preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds from such sales to ADS holders. Our bylaws restrict transfers of shares in some circumstances Our bylaws provide that any acquisition or transfer of more than 10% of our capital stock by any person or group of persons acting together requires the approval of our board of directors. If you acquire or transfer more than 10% of our capital stock, you will not be able to do so without the approval of the Board of Directors. 11 Table of Contents Mexican law and our bylaws restrict the ability of non-Mexican shareholders to invoke the protection of their governments with respect to their rights as shareholders As required by Mexican law, our bylaws provide that non-Mexican shareholders shall be considered as Mexicans in respect of their ownership interests in América Móvil and shall be deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of their governments in certain circumstances. Under this provision, a non-Mexican shareholder is deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of his own government by asking such government to interpose a diplomatic claim against the Mexican government with respect to the shareholder’s rights as a shareholder, but is not deemed to have waived any other rights it may have, including any rights under the U.S. securities laws, with respect to its investment in América Móvil. If you invoke such governmental protection in violation of this agreement, your shares could be forfeited to the Mexican government. Our bylaws may only be enforced in Mexico Our bylaws provide that legal actions relating to the execution, interpretation or performance of the bylaws may be brought only in Mexican courts. As a result, it may be difficult for non-Mexican shareholders to enforce their shareholder rights pursuant to the bylaws. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons América Móvil is organized under the laws of Mexico, with its principal place of business (domicilio social) in Mexico City, and most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets and their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Mexico, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. Risks Relating to Developments in Mexico and Other Countries Latin American economic, political and social conditions may adversely affect our business Our financial performance may be significantly affected by general economic, political and social conditions in the markets where we operate, particularly Mexico, Brazil and Central America. Many countries in Latin America, including Mexico and Brazil, have suffered significant economic, political and social crises in the past, and these events may occur again in the future. Many of these countries, including Chile, Peru and Mexico, are expected to hold elections during 2006. We cannot predict whether changes in current administrations will result in changes in governmental policy and whether such changes will affect our business. Instability in the region has been caused by many different factors, including: • significant governmental influence over local economies; • substantial fluctuations in economic growth; • high levels of inflation; • changes in currency values; • exchange controls or restrictions on expatriation of earnings; • high domestic interest rates; • wage and price controls; • changes in governmental economic or tax policies; • imposition of trade barriers; • unexpected changes in regulation; and • overall political, social and economic instability. 12 Table of Contents Adverse economic, political and social conditions in Latin America may inhibit demand for wireless services and create uncertainty regarding our operating environment, which could have a material adverse effect on our company. Our business may be especially affected by conditions in Mexico and Brazil, our two principal markets. Mexico has experienced a prolonged period of slow growth since 2001, primarily as a result of the downturn in the U.S. economy. According to preliminary data, during 2005, Mexico’s gross domestic product, or “GDP,” grew by 2.7% in real terms. In 2004, GDP grew by 4.4%. Mexico has also experienced high levels of inflation and high domestic interest rates. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the National Consumer Price Index as published by the Banco de México, was 3.3% for 2005. Presidential elections in Mexico are scheduled for July 2006. The Mexican presidential election will result in a change in administration, as presidential reelection is not permitted in Mexico. President Vicente Fox from the National Action Party (Partido Acción Nacional, or “PAN”), won the presidency on July 2, 2000, but his party has not succeeded in securing a majority in the Mexican congress. The presidential race is highly contested among a number of different parties, including the Institutional Revolutionary Party (Partido Revolucionario Institucional, or “PRI”), which governed for more than 70 years prior to the election of President Fox, the PAN, and the Party of the Democratic Revolution (Partido de la Revolución Democrática, or “PRD”), each with its own political platform. As a result, we cannot predict which party will prevail in the elections or whether changes in Mexican governmental policy will result from a change in administration. Such changes may adversely affect economic conditions or the industry in which we operate in Mexico and therefore our results of operations and financial position. Brazil has also experienced slow economic growth over the past several years. Brazil’s GDP grew by an estimated 2.3% in real terms in 2005, compared to a growth rate of 4.9% in 2004. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation, with annual rates of inflation during the last ten years reaching as high as 2,489% in 1993 and 929% in 1994, as measured by the Brazilian National Consumer Price Index. More recently, Brazil’s rates of inflation were 9.3% in 2003, 7.6% in 2004 and an estimated 5.7% in 2005. Inflation, governmental measures to combat inflation and public speculation about possible future actions have in the past had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Depreciation or fluctuation of the currencies in which we conduct operations relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations We are affected by fluctuations in the value of the currencies in which we conduct operations compared to the U.S. dollar, in which a substantial portion of our indebtedness is denominated. Changes in the value of the various currencies in which we conduct operations against the Mexican peso, which we use as our reporting currency in our financial statements, and against the U.S. dollar may result in exchange losses or gains on our net U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness and accounts payable. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, changes in currency exchange rates led us to report foreign exchange gains of Ps. 2,940 million (an amount that is equal to 9.3% of our net income in 2005), Ps. 2,526 million and Ps. 1,473 million, respectively. In prior years, however, we have reported foreign exchange losses. In addition, currency fluctuations between the Mexican peso and the currencies of our non-Mexican subsidiaries affect our results as reported in Mexican pesos. Currency fluctuations are expected to continue to affect our financial income and expense. Major devaluation or depreciation of any such currencies may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer or to convert such currencies into U.S. dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness. The Mexican government does not currently restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico. The government could, however, institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future. 13 Table of Contents Additional Mexican taxes and contributions levied on services we offer and on the exploitation of frequencies could affect our results of operations Taxes applicable to certain telecommunications services, as well as taxes and contributions on the exploitation of frequencies, have been enacted from time to time in Mexico, including changes to previously established fiscal regimes. Taxes or contributions of this nature could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Currently in Mexico, concessionaires for the 800 megahertz (Band B) radio spectrum are required to pay the Mexican government a semi-annual fee (aprovechamiento) ranging from 5% to 10% of the gross revenues under such concessions, whereas concessionaires for the 1900 megahertz (Bands A and D) radio spectrum are not required to pay semi-annual fees. During 2005, a Mexican court permitted Telcel to eliminate from its 800 megahertz concession for the Mexico City area (Region 9) the obligation to make this semi-annual payment, against a one time payment of Ps. 2,122 million. Telcel was able to credit against this payment, semi-annual fees totaling Ps. 1,980 million paid by Telcel from 2000 to 2005. Pursuant to amendments to the Federal Contributions Law (the Ley Federal de Derechos) enacted in 2003, owners of concessions in Mexico granted or renewed on or after January 1, 2003 are required to pay annual fees (derechos) for the use and exploitation of radio spectrum bands. The amount of annual fees payable could be significant and vary depending on the relevant region and radio spectrum band. These annual fees would be payable in respect of all spectrum bands, including bands, such as Band B, that are already subject to the payment of semi-annual fees based on gross revenues (aprovechamientos). Currently, we are not required to pay derechos in respect of our Bands A, B and D concessions since they were awarded prior to 2003, but we are required to pay fees in respect of the right to use additional 10 megahertz of capacity in the 1900 megahertz spectrum (Band F) acquired during 2005. We have challenged our obligation to pay such annual fee as we believe it is contrary to certain provisions of the Mexican Telecommunications Law. We obtained a preliminary injunction against the payment of these fees, which is currently subject to appeal by the authorities. Based on the current terms of the law, the fees applicable to the 10 megahertz acquired during 2005 amount to approximately Ps. 255 million (subject to adjustment for inflation) annually for 20 years for all 9 regions. The application of this fee (derechos) to renewals of concessions granted prior to 2003 is the subject of debate in Mexico, as it could affect competitors differently and impact competition. Currently we do not expect to renew any of our concessions until 2010. 14 Table of Contents 