Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to invest in our Company because these risk factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Our near-term success is highly dependent on the commercialization of RECOTHROM™ recombinant thrombin. Prior to the launch of RECOTHROM in the United States in January 2008, we had never sold or marketed a product. Our ability to generate product sales in the foreseeable future will depend solely on the commercialization of this product. The successful commercialization of RECOTHROM will depend on many factors, including the following: • successfully maintaining a product supply chain to meet demand; • successfully maintaining a commercial infrastructure, including a sales force; • competition from products that are already approved or are being developed; • our ability to penetrate the existing thrombin market with RECOTHROM and develop line extensions; • acceptance by the medical community; and • approval in jurisdictions outside the United States. If we are unable to successfully commercialize RECOTHROM, or if we are significantly limited in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. 29 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully commercialize RECOTHROM in the face of substantial competition. We may not be able to compete successfully in the marketplace and gain market acceptance of RECOTHROM. We expect RECOTHROM to face substantial competition from hemostasis products currently marketed or presently under development, including plasma-derived thrombin. In the United States, stand-alone plasma-derived thrombin products on the market include Thrombin-JMI, a bovine plasma-derived thrombin sold by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Evithrom, a pooled human plasma-derived thrombin made by Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. and marketed by Ethicon, Inc., a division of Johnson & Johnson. In addition, Baxter International, Inc. is expected to soon market the Gelfoam Plus Hemostasis Kit, which is Pfizer Inc.’s Gelfoam sterile sponge co-packaged with human plasma-derived thrombin. Further, a number of companies, including Johnson & Johnson and Baxter International, Inc., currently market other hemostatic agents that may present additional competition to RECOTHROM, including passive agents such as gelatin and collagen pads, as well as fibrin sealants and tissues glues. Despite the potential advantages of RECOTHROM, we may be unsuccessful in competing against these well established companies. Further, even if our promotional efforts are successful, many hospitals will evaluate the entire product category in which RECOTHROM falls through their respective pharmacy and therapeutic products processes, including performing comparisons between RECOTHROM and its direct competitors. The review cycle will vary between hospitals and, in any event, uptake of RECOTHROM would be delayed. In addition, the price of bovine plasma-derived thrombin has increased significantly in recent years, effectively increasing the value of the thrombin market. However, if increased competition results in price competition, the value of the thrombin market could be reduced, which would impair our business. In addition to direct competition, RECOTHROM will also have to compete against the promotional efforts for other products in order to be noticed by healthcare practitioners. The level of promotional effort in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and medical device markets is substantial. Market acceptance of RECOTHROM will be affected by the level of promotional effort that we are able to provide. The level and quality of our promotional efforts will depend in part on our ability to train, deploy and retain an effective sales and marketing organization, as well as our ability to secure additional financing. We cannot assure you that the level of promotional effort that we will be able to provide for RECOTHROM or the levels of additional financing we are able to secure, if any, will be sufficient to obtain market acceptance of RECOTHROM. RECOTHROM may not achieve market acceptance or generate significant revenues. If RECOTHROM fails to achieve market acceptance, our product sales and our ability to maintain our current levels of research, development and commercialization activities, as well as our ability to become profitable in the future, will be adversely affected. Many factors may affect the rate and level of market acceptance of RECOTHROM, including: • the effectiveness of our product marketing, promotion, distribution, sales and pricing strategies and programs, and those of our competitors; • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of the product’s safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and convenience compared to that of competing products; • the perception of physicians and other members of the healthcare community of the product’s safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and convenience compared to that of alternative or competing products; • the level of satisfaction with the product of surgeons and the medical community; • clinical practice guidelines regarding topical hemostats published by professional organizations or specialty groups; • the size of the market for RECOTHROM and its rate of growth; 30 Table of Contents • any publicity concerning the product or similar products; • new data or adverse event information relating to the product or any similar products and any resulting regulatory action; • regulatory constraints on, or delays in the review of, our product promotional materials and programs; • our ability to satisfy post-marketing safety surveillance responsibilities and safety reporting requirements; • the results of clinical studies completed after initial FDA approval; • regulatory developments relating to the development, manufacture, commercialization or use of the product; • the introduction, availability and acceptance of alternative or competing treatments, including lower-priced products; • the ability to gain formulary acceptance and favorable formulary positioning; • our ability to supply RECOTHROM to meet demand; • the continued availability of third parties to manufacture and distribute the product on acceptable terms, and the continued ability to manufacture commercial-scale quantities of the product successfully and on a timely basis; and • the outcome of patent, product liability or other litigation, if any, related to the product. The approved product labeling and FDA restrictions on promotional communications may adversely affect market acceptance of RECOTHROM. We believe that the approved product labeling for RECOTHROM will have a direct and significant impact on our marketing, promotional and sales programs for this product, and could adversely affect market acceptance of this product. The label contains warnings and contraindications that are typical for thrombin and recombinant products, as well as some that are unique to RECOTHROM. While we hope customers will prefer the inherent properties of a recombinant product to plasma-derived alternatives, the label does not state that RECOTHROM has demonstrated superior safety or efficacy to competing thrombin products. If potential purchasers or those influencing purchasing decisions, such as physicians and pharmacists, react negatively to the product because of how they perceive the approved product labeling, it may result in lower product acceptance and lower product revenues. In addition to approving product labeling, the FDA typically reviews and provides advisory comments regarding core promotional materials for a pharmaceutical product. The FDA reviewed our core promotional materials in connection with the launch of RECOTHROM in January 2008, and we must submit all additional promotional materials to the FDA at the time of their first use. If the FDA raises concerns regarding our promotional materials or messages, we may be required to modify or discontinue using them, and in some cases could be required to provide corrective information to healthcare practitioners. We do not know whether our promotional materials or messages will allow us to effectively promote RECOTHROM with healthcare practitioners. For example, the approved product labeling states that in the pivotal clinical trial we observed a lower incidence of immunogenicity of RECOTHROM compared with that of bovine thrombin, but that there is no demonstrated correlation of this finding to clinical outcome. Accordingly, these regulatory limitations may make it difficult for us to address all potential questions and concerns regarding the product or its label, which could result in lower product acceptance and lower product sales. A lack of familiarity with RECOTHROM and our company may adversely affect market acceptance of RECOTHROM. We may be hampered in our promotional efforts by a lack of familiarity with RECOTHROM and our company among healthcare practitioners in the United States. Relatively few United States physicians served as 31 Table of Contents clinical investigators in the clinical studies of RECOTHROM; as a result, only a limited number of United States healthcare practitioners are familiar with using RECOTHROM, even in a clinical trial setting. Furthermore, because RECOTHROM is our first product introduced commercially, there is limited, if any, awareness and goodwill associated with our company’s name. Healthcare providers may prefer products from companies with which they have long-standing relationships. Any or all of these factors may result in less market acceptance and lower sales of RECOTHROM. If Bayer HealthCare, upon whom we rely to co-promote RECOTHROM and provide additional medical science liaisons, fails to perform, our business may be adversely affected. In June 2007, we entered into an agreement with Bayer HealthCare LLC whereby Bayer HealthCare agreed to co-promote RECOTHROM and provide additional medical science liaisons in the United States for a limited time. Much of our success in selling RECOTHROM depends on the efforts of Bayer HealthCare. Collaboration with Bayer HealthCare in this regard involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that Bayer HealthCare will: • not effectively co-promote RECOTHROM; • not provide effective medical science liaisons; or • not devote the resources or effort necessary to successfully co-promote RECOTHROM according to our business plan. Any such failure may result in decreased product sales and negatively affect our reputation and that of RECOTHROM, which would harm our business. If we or others identify unknown side effects of RECOTHROM or if known side effects become a greater concern or product manufacturing problems occur, our business would be adversely affected and could lead the FDA to withdraw marketing approval or a significant decrease in sales of RECOTHROM could occur. If we or others identify previously unknown side effects for RECOTHROM or any products perceived to be similar to RECOTHROM, or if any already known side effect becomes a more serious or frequent concern than was previously expected on the basis of new data or other developments, or if serious product manufacturing problems occur, then in any of these circumstances: • sales of RECOTHROM may decrease significantly; • regulatory approvals for RECOTHROM may be restricted or withdrawn; • we may decide to, or be required to, send product warning letters or field alerts to physicians, pharmacists and hospitals; • reformulation of the product, additional preclinical or clinical studies, changes in labeling of the product or changes to or re-approvals of manufacturing facilities may be required; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • investigations and lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us. Any of the above occurrences would harm or prevent sales of RECOTHROM, increase our costs and expenses and impair our ability to successfully commercialize RECOTHROM. Furthermore, now that RECOTHROM is approved in the United States, the product is being used in a wider population and in a less rigorously controlled fashion than in clinical studies of the product. It is expected that some patients exposed to RECOTHROM will become sick or die suddenly, that in some or even many of these cases there will not be sufficient information available to rule out RECOTHROM as a contributing factor or 32 Table of Contents cause of sickness or mortality, and that safety reporting from physicians or from us to regulatory authorities may link RECOTHROM to death or other serious adverse effects. As a result, regulatory authorities, healthcare practitioners, third party payors or patients may perceive or conclude that the use of RECOTHROM is associated with death or other serious adverse effects, any of which could mean that our ability to commercialize RECOTHROM could be adversely affected and our business could be otherwise impaired. In addition, now that RECOTHROM is approved, others are free to generate new data regarding the product, which they may publish in the scientific literature or otherwise publicize, without our control. Distribution of RECOTHROM will be highly concentrated among a small group of wholesale drug distributors and we rely on these wholesale drug distributors for certain crucial functions. We will distribute RECOTHROM through a small number of large wholesale drug distributors: AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation, which control a significant share of the pharmaceutical market in the United States. Our ability to distribute RECOTHROM to hospital pharmacies and to recognize revenues on a timely basis will be substantially dependent on our ability to maintain commercially reasonable agreements with each of these wholesale distributors and the extent to which these distributors, over whom we have no control, comply with such agreements. The loss or bankruptcy of any of these distributors could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations, financial condition and our ability to distribute our products. Further, we rely on our distributors to provide us with accurate and timely information regarding their inventories or complaints about RECOTHROM. If they fail to provide this information, our business may be significantly harmed. Guidelines, recommendations and other literature published by various organizations may affect the use of RECOTHROM. Government agencies issue regulations and guidelines potentially directly applicable to us and to RECOTHROM. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in various diseases and conditions from time to time publish guidelines, recommendations and other literature to the healthcare and patient communities. These types of publications may relate to such matters as product usage, dosage, route of administration, and use of related or competing products. These organizations have in the past made recommendations about RECOTHROM or products that compete with RECOTHROM, such as the treatment guidelines of the Society of Thoracic Surgeons. These types of publications could result in decreased use of RECOTHROM. In addition, the perception by the investment community or shareholders that any such publication could result in decreased use of RECOTHROM could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. RECOTHROM has not been approved for sale outside of the United States, and may never receive foreign marketing approval. In June 2007, we and Bayer Schering Pharma AG entered into a license and collaboration agreement under which Bayer Schering agreed to seek applicable government approvals for and develop and market RECOTHROM outside the United States. While the FDA granted marketing approval in January 2008, we and Bayer Schering do not know whether foreign regulatory authorities will grant marketing approval to RECOTHROM as a topical hemostat. In the United States, RECOTHROM was approved by the FDA for use as a topical hemostat on the basis of clinical studies showing non-inferiority to bovine thrombin. The European Medicines Agency (EMEA) and other regulatory authorities may require other clinical trials having a different study design, especially as bovine thrombin is not currently approved in Europe. In addition, the foreign regulatory authorities may not be satisfied with the safety and efficacy data submitted in support of the foreign applications, which could result in either non-approval or a requirement of additional clinical trials or further 33 Table of Contents analysis of existing data. Furthermore, as an element of the foreign approval process, the applicable regulatory authority must be satisfied with the processes and facilities for the manufacture of RECOTHROM, which includes a physical inspection of those facilities. Any conclusion that there are shortcomings in the processes, facilities, quality control or oversight of contract manufacturers, or other quality assurance procedures related to manufacture of the drug could result in a significant delay in or failure to receive foreign approval. Lack of or limited marketing approval in a particular country could prevent or limit Bayer Schering from selling RECOTHROM in that country, which could significantly harm our business. We will be dependent on the efforts of Bayer Schering to market and promote RECOTHROM in countries outside the United States where RECOTHROM may receive approval, and we may otherwise be limited due to our relationship with Bayer. Under our license and collaboration agreement with Bayer Schering, we will be dependent solely on Bayer Schering to promote and market RECOTHROM in countries outside the United States where RECOTHROM is approved. In exchange, we will receive milestone payments and royalties on sales of RECOTHROM. We have limited ability to direct Bayer Schering in its promotion of RECOTHROM in foreign countries. Bayer Schering may not have sufficient experience to promote topical hemostat products in foreign countries and may fail to devote appropriate resources to this task. No form of thrombin is currently sold in Europe and, therefore, Bayer Schering will have to create a new market for RECOTHROM, an endeavor in which it may fail. If Bayer Schering fails to effectively promote RECOTHROM in foreign countries, we may be unable to obtain any remedy against Bayer Schering. If this were to happen, sales of RECOTHROM in any foreign countries where RECOTHROM is approved may be harmed, which would negatively impact our business. Further, pursuant to the license and collaboration agreement, we granted to Bayer Schering certain license rights to RECOTHROM line extensions, if any. We retained the right to co-develop RECOTHROM line extensions and the exclusive right to commercialize them in the United States, however, Bayer Schering has the ability to license the full rights to these line extensions outside the United States, and even if it does not elect to do so, we will not be permitted to commercialize any RECOTHROM line extensions outside of the United States. Overall, our agreement with Bayer Schering may: • limit the financial benefits we may derive from RECOTHROM line extensions, if any, by precluding us from markets in countries outside the United States; • limit the financial benefits we may derive from RECOTHROM line extensions, if any, by allowing Bayer Schering to license them in exchange for predetermined payments and royalties and with predetermined cost-sharing arrangements, which payments and royalty rates may be less than, and which cost-sharing arrangements may be less favorable to us than, terms we might otherwise obtain in collaborative or licensing arrangements with other parties; • result in a delay in developing one or more RECOTHROM line extensions due to Bayer Schering’s internal procedures or development strategies; and • prevent us from collaborating with or licensing a line extension candidate to another company that, by virtue of its particular skills and capabilities, may be a more desirable collaborator or licensing partner for that particular line extension candidate than Bayer Schering. We have limited composition of matter patent protection for RECOTHROM. While we hold patents to the manufacture of RECOTHROM, we have limited composition of matter patent protection to a recombinant precursor to RECOTHROM. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent other parties from developing alternate methods of manufacturing RECOTHROM or from selling RECOTHROM. If a 34 Table of Contents third party developed an alternate method of manufacturing RECOTHROM and sold it, it would impair our business. Certain third parties hold patents relating to thrombin. We are aware of certain United States and European patents and patent applications held by third parties relating to thrombin and to methods of manufacture of thrombin. Our analyses of these patents lead us to conclude that we will not infringe these patents and that many of the claims of these patents are invalid or unenforceable; however, the patent holders, courts or other governmental or legal entities may conclude that our products and/or actions in developing or selling products do infringe such patents. We may seek licenses to such patents if, in our judgment, such licenses are needed. If any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. If these licenses are not obtained, we might be prevented from using certain of our technologies for the generation of our products. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require may severely harm our business. If we desire a license and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be restricted in our ability to make, import and sell RECOTHROM using third-party patented technology. We rely on third parties to supply RECOTHROM and our other product candidates, therefore, we may not be able to effectively control production or obtain adequate supplies, which could cause delays in product manufacturing, subject us to product shortages or reduce product sales. The manufacture and delivery of sufficient quantities of pharmaceutical products and devices is a time-consuming and complex process. Except for limited capabilities to produce protein product candidates for clinical trials, we currently have no internal manufacturing capabilities. In order to successfully commercialize our products, including RECOTHROM, and continue to develop our product candidates, including line extensions for RECOTHROM, atacicept and IL-21, we need to contract or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing. For example, we have entered into an agreement with Abbott Laboratories for commercial-scale production of RECOTHROM bulk drug substance and an agreement with Patheon Italia S.p.A., Inc. for fill and finish of the dosage form of RECOTHROM. We have also entered into agreements with several suppliers of critical raw materials, manufacturing process intermediates and components for RECOTHROM. For our atacicept product candidate, we rely on our collaborative partner Merck Serono to manufacture supplies for clinical trials and, if approved, commercial sales. For our IL-21 product candidate, Novo Nordisk will manufacture supplies for use in clinical trials. Reliance on third-party manufacturers and other vendors limits our control regarding many aspects of the manufacturing and delivery processes and therefore exposes us to a variety of significant risks relating to: • our ability to commercialize our products or conduct clinical trials (including, for example, due to contractual provisions allocating supplies in the event of a shortage); • reliance on third parties for legal and regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • third-party refusals to supply on a long-term basis; • third-party insistence on minimum and/or maximum levels of supply and related restrictions on our ability to increase or decrease supply; • breach of agreements by third-parties; and • termination or non-renewal of agreements by third-parties, based on other business priorities, at times that are costly or inconvenient for us. Furthermore, the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers will be periodically inspected by the FDA. A manufacturer’s failure to satisfy regulatory requirements may result in withdrawal of FDA approval for that facility, including those used in the production of RECOTHROM. In complying with FDA regulations, we 35 Table of Contents and our contract manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality assurance to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. If any of these risks occur, our product supply could be interrupted resulting in lost or delayed revenues or delayed clinical trials or production costs could be significantly increased. In addition, if, for any reason, we are required to engage an additional or replacement manufacturer or other vendor, the investment of funds and management time could be significant. The cost and time to establish these new manufacturing facilities would be substantial. As a result, using a new manufacturer or other vendor could disrupt our ability to market our products, subject us to product shortages, reduce product sales, and/or reduce our profit margins. Further, any delay or disruption in the manufacturing of bulk product, the dosage form of our products or other product components, including spray applicators for delivery of RECOTHROM, could also harm our reputation in the medical community. Overall, while we believe that business relations between us and our manufacturers and other supply chain vendors are generally good, we cannot predict whether any of the manufacturers and other vendors that we may use will continue to meet our requirements for quality, quantity or timeliness for the manufacture of RECOTHROM, its intermediates or components or for our other product candidates. Therefore, our dependence on third parties for the manufacture and delivery of products may adversely affect our business, including our ability to develop and deliver products in a timely and profitable manner. There are limited numbers of potential manufacturers and other vendors on whom we could rely to supply RECOTHROM and our other product candidates. There are a limited number of manufacturers and other vendors that operate under the FDA’s cGMP regulations capable of manufacturing for us, and we have not established backup manufacturers and suppliers for RECOTHROM or any of our product candidates. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain third-party manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms, or if we lose a significant supplier used for RECOTHROM, its line extensions, if any, or for our other product candidates, we may not be able to market our products, meet certain contractual supply obligations or complete development of our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. For example, under our agreements with Bayer, we are required to provide Bayer with RECOTHROM and may be in violation of the agreement if we cannot make the required deliveries. In addition, some of the inventions and patents licensed to us were initially developed at universities or other not-for-profit institutions with funding support from an agency of the United States government. In accordance with federal law, our licensees or we may be required to manufacture in the United States products covered by those patents, unless we can obtain a waiver from the government on the basis that such domestic manufacture is not commercially feasible. We have not attempted to secure any such waivers from the government, and do not know if they would be sought or available if sought. If we are not able to obtain such waivers, if requested, on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek manufacturing arrangements at higher prices, or on otherwise less favorable terms, than might be available to us in the absence of this domestic manufacturing requirement. Failure to effectively manage the RECOTHROM supply chain could result in inventory shortages or other supply interruptions. Our supply chain for RECOTHROM, its intermediates and components, is particularly complex and involves a number of third parties in several countries. In addition, our contract manufacturers and other vendors have not produced RECOTHROM, its intermediates or components, for commercial use for a sustained period of time. As such, unforeseeable risks may be encountered as we, together with our manufacturers and other vendors, continue to develop familiarity and experience with regard to manufacturing RECOTHROM, its intermediates and components. Failure to adequately manage our supply chain could result in inventory shortages or other 36 Table of Contents supply interruptions that could negatively impact RECOTHROM sales and, consequently, negatively impact product revenue. As we progress from a primarily research and development company to a company increasingly involved in commercialization of products, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations. As we begin to commercialize RECOTHROM and continue to advance product candidates through clinical trials and on to commercialization, we will need to expand our development and commercial operations capabilities. If we are not able to provide these capabilities internally, we will need to rely on collaborative partners or other third parties to provide these services for us. Expanded operations will add significant complexity to our business and responsibilities to certain members of our management and key personnel. We will need to manage relationships with an increasing number of collaborative partners, suppliers and third-party contractors. If we are unable to successfully provide the required infrastructure, either internally or through third parties, and successfully manage an increasing number of relationships, we will have difficulty growing our business. We have rapidly expanded our field force operations, including sales personnel and medical science liaisons, and any difficulties managing these functions or the related growth could disrupt our operations. During 2007, in anticipation of the commercial launch of RECOTHROM in the United States, we rapidly expanded and developed our field force operations, including sales personnel and medical science liaisons, which included, for the first time, hiring employees based outside of our Washington State headquarters. We increased expenditures in these areas, hiring additional employees and expanding the scope of our operations. Since we did not have any products approved for sale prior to January 2008, our field force operations, and our ability to manage them, have been generally untested. Accordingly, if we are unable to effectively manage our newly expanded field force operations, or if our related capabilities prove to be inadequate, we may not be able to effectively implement our business plan. We have limited experience in developing or commercializing products and may not be successful in commercializing RECOTHROM or developing or commercializing any other products. We have limited experience developing or commercializing products on our own. We may not succeed in commercializing RECOTHROM. Our other product candidates, which we are developing on our own or in collaboration with partners, have not yet completed clinical testing. In addition, our contributions to the discovery or development of certain therapeutic proteins currently on the market do not imply that we will be able to successfully develop and market products alone. Our work relating to these marketed products generally did not include clinical trials or manufacturing, and we did not participate in marketing or other late-stage development or commercialization activities. If we are unable to successfully commercialize RECOTHROM, or if we are significantly limited in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. We may be unable to satisfy the rigorous government regulations relating to the development and marketing approval of our other product candidates. The successful commercialization of atacicept, IL-21, PEG-IFN lambda or any of our other product candidates will depend on obtaining marketing approval from the applicable regulatory authorities in each market in which we or our collaborators or our licensees intend to market the product candidates. Any failure to receive the marketing approvals necessary to commercialize atacicept or any of our other product candidates could severely harm our business. Our product candidates are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation. 37 Table of Contents The FDA regulates, among other things, the collection, testing, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, potency, labeling, storage, record keeping, quality systems, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of therapeutic products. If our potential products are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. Except for RECOTHROM in the United States, none of our product candidates has been approved for sale in any country, and our experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals is limited. The regulatory review and approval process of governmental authorities, which includes nonclinical studies and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. For example, securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive nonclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and effectiveness, including significant information regarding the chemistry, manufacturing and controls or the product. The approval process typically takes many years to complete and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing clinical studies. In addition, we may not achieve governmental approval, including that of the FDA, of a product candidate even if we have met our internal safety and efficacy criteria and completed clinical trials. Also, any FDA or other regulatory approval of our product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn. Government regulation may result in: • prohibitions or significant delays in the marketing of potential products; • recalls and discontinuation of the marketing of potential products; and • limitations of the indicated uses for which potential products may be marketed. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to our business, we may be subject to sanctions, including the temporary or permanent suspension of operations, product recalls, marketing restrictions and civil and criminal penalties. In addition, some of our product candidates may be approved for use in combination with other products that are not our own. Failure by any of these products to comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to their business, resulting in potential product restrictions or recalls, may materially harm our ability to successfully commercialize and generate revenues from our products used in combination regimens. Clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval. Clinical trials involving atacicept, IL-21, PEG-IFN lambda or any of our other product candidates may reveal that those candidates are ineffective, have unacceptable toxicity or safety profiles or have other unacceptable side effects. In addition, data obtained from tests are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Likewise, the results of preliminary studies do not predict clinical success, and larger and later-stage clinical trials may not produce the same results as earlier-stage trials. Frequently, product candidates that have shown promising results in early clinical trials have subsequently suffered significant setbacks in later clinical trials. In addition, clinical trials of potential products often reveal that it is not practical or feasible to continue development efforts for these product candidates. For example, while we have entered into a SPA with the FDA for atacicept that sets forth an agreement on key design issues of the pivotal clinical studies, this does not guarantee regulatory approval. For example, we may not receive approval as a result of technical failure of the clinical studies such as inadequate data to support the agreed upon endpoint. In addition, the FDA may change the agreement set forth in the SPA if the FDA reviewing division determines that a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety and efficacy of atacicept is identified after the pivotal testing began. If the FDA changed the agreement set forth in a SPA for atacicept it might delay the approval of atacicept or prevent it all together, which would impair our business. 38 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims, which our limited product liability insurance may not adequately cover. The manufacture and sale of therapeutic products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity, even if the claims relate to use of the product in a manner inconsistent with label instructions. In addition, RECOTHROM will be used on patients undergoing surgery, where there are significant risks to patients. We currently have only limited product liability insurance. We do not know if we will be able to maintain existing or obtain additional product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. This type of insurance is expensive and may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be unable to continue to develop or commercialize RECOTHROM or any other product candidates. Any product liability claims, whether or not ultimately successful, could have a material negative effect on our stock price, the market acceptance and sales of RECOTHROM and our financial condition and results. Our use of collaborations to leverage our capabilities may not be successful. As part of our business strategy, we have entered into collaboration arrangements with strategic partners to co-develop and co-commercialize products and product candidates and will continue to evaluate similar opportunities. For our collaboration efforts to be successful, we must identify partners whose competencies and priorities complement ours. We must also successfully enter into collaboration agreements with them on terms attractive to us and integrate and coordinate their resources and capabilities with our own on a continuing basis. We may be unsuccessful in entering into collaboration agreements with acceptable partners or negotiating favorable terms in these agreements or maintaining such relationships so as to reap benefits from them over time. Also, we may be unsuccessful in integrating the resources, capabilities or priorities of these collaborators on a continuing basis. In addition, our collaborators may prove difficult to work with or less skilled than we originally expected. If we are unsuccessful in our collaborative efforts, our ability to develop and market product candidates could be severely limited. We may not be able to generate any revenue from product candidates developed by collaborators or licensees if they do not successfully develop those candidates. We may be unable to derive any value from product candidates developed by collaborators or licensees, including Novo Nordisk, Merck Serono and Bayer Schering. Our ability to generate revenues from existing or future collaborations and license arrangements is subject to numerous risks, including: • the possibility that our collaborators or licensees lack sufficient financial, technical or other capabilities to develop these product candidates; • the possibility that our collaborators or licensees choose to scale back or discontinue their development activities due to changes in their strategies, restructuring, mergers or acquisitions (for example, Novo Nordisk has terminated its license to PEG-IFN lambda that it was granted pursuant to the option and license agreement); • the length of time that it takes for our collaborators or licensees to solve technical problems or achieve various clinical development and regulatory approval milestones; • the inability of collaborators or licensees to successfully address any regulatory or technical challenges they may encounter; and • the possibility that these product candidates may not be effective or may prove to have undesirable side effects, unacceptable toxicities or other characteristics that preclude regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. 39 Table of Contents Merck Serono has substantial rights to license proteins we discover, which may limit our ability to pursue other collaboration or licensing arrangements or maximize the benefit from our discoveries. In 2004, we entered into a strategic alliance agreement with Serono S.A., which was subsequently acquired by Merck KGaA and became Merck Serono S.A., an affiliate of Merck KGaA. Pursuant to this agreement, we granted options to license certain rights to proteins in our research pipeline. Although we retained the rights to co-develop and co-commercialize the licensed proteins in the United States, Merck Serono has at least half interest in the United States rights and full rights to these proteins outside the United States. Merck Serono has licenses to four proteins as part of the strategic alliance, for two of which we elected to pursue co-development, and it may license other proteins in the future pursuant to this agreement. Our agreement with Merck Serono may: • preclude or delay opportunities to seek other collaborators for our product candidates, due to the fact that we cannot explore other collaboration opportunities relating to proteins subject to the agreements until after Merck Serono has decided not to exercise an option with respect to the protein; • limit the financial benefits we may derive from product candidates by allowing Merck Serono to license proteins in exchange for predetermined payments and royalties and with predetermined cost-sharing arrangements, which payments and royalty rates may be less than, and which cost-sharing arrangements may be less favorable to us than, terms we might otherwise obtain in collaborative or licensing arrangements with other parties; • result in a delay in developing one or more product candidates due to Merck Serono’s internal procedures or development strategies; • result in Merck Serono licensing proteins with the most therapeutic and commercial potential, leaving us with fewer or less desirable product candidates to develop on our own or with other potential collaborators; and • prevent us from collaborating with or licensing a product candidate to another company that, by virtue of its particular skills and capabilities, may be a more desirable collaborator or licensing partner for that particular product candidate than Merck Serono. If we decide to build or acquire our own commercial manufacturing capacity, the process will be expensive, lengthy and would require compliance with extensive manufacturing regulations, which could not be assured. Therapeutic proteins are often more difficult and expensive to manufacture than other classes of drugs, and their manufacture requires specialized facilities. We completed construction in 2004 of an expanded research and development facility that includes dedicated pilot-scale GMP manufacturing suites for the production of therapeutic proteins for use in nonclinical and clinical testing. In 2006, we produced our first GMP materials in this facility. These initial manufacturing suites will not provide us with the capability to produce drug materials for commercial sale. Although we are operating our pilot-scale manufacturing suites in accordance with cGMP regulations, this facility has never been inspected by regulatory authorities. If we decide to develop our own commercial manufacturing capability, we would need to acquire larger manufacturing facilities, which are very expensive and require extended periods of time to build and validate. Also, we would be required to adhere to rigorous cGMP regulations in this facility. If any of our future facilities or quality systems could not pass pre-approval facilities inspection, the FDA marketing approval of our product candidates may not be granted; similarly, if we fail subsequent periodic facilities inspections, FDA marketing approval could be withdrawn. In building additional facilities and complying with these regulations and any applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we would be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality assurance to assure that our potential products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. Any failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to regulatory sanctions and delay or interrupt our development and commercialization efforts. 40 Table of Contents Because we will depend on third parties to conduct certain laboratory tests and clinical trials, we may encounter delays in or lose some control over our efforts to develop product candidates. We commonly rely on third parties to conduct laboratory tests and clinical trials for us, especially to the extent clinical trials include sites outside the United States. If we are unable to obtain these services on acceptable terms, we may not be able to complete our product development efforts in a timely manner. Also, because we will rely on third parties to some extent for laboratory tests and clinical trials, we may lose some control over these activities or be unable to manage them appropriately, or may become too dependent on these parties. These third parties may not complete the tests or trials on schedule or when we request, and the tests or trials may be methodologically flawed, may not comply with applicable laws or be otherwise defective. Any delays or difficulties associated with third-party laboratory tests or clinical trials may delay the development of our product candidates. We have shifted our discovery efforts to therapeutic antibodies with which we have limited experience and face competition. We have shifted our discovery efforts to focus on developing therapeutic antibodies. We have limited experience developing antibodies and may not be successful in these efforts. In addition, there is a great deal of competition in the field of antibody products. Our competitors include multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions. A number of our largest competitors, including Genentech, Inc., Amgen Inc. and Human Genome Sciences, Inc., are pursuing the development or marketing of pharmaceuticals that address the same diseases that we are pursuing, and it is possible that the number of companies seeking to develop products and therapies for these diseases will increase. We may be unable to commercialize antibody products. We have shifted our research and discovery efforts toward developing therapeutic antibodies. We may not be successful in obtaining adequate, if any, patent coverage for our discoveries and therapeutic antibody products. In addition, there is a great deal of competition in the field of antibody products and third parties may own key technology patents or dominating patents that may prevent us from developing, manufacturing or commercializing therapeutic antibodies. For example, we are aware of broad patents owned by others relating to the discovery, development, manufacture, use and sale of recombinant humanized antibodies, recombinant humanized single chain antibodies, recombinant human antibodies, and recombinant human single chain antibodies and other technologies. Many of our product candidates may use or include such technologies. However, we may not be able to obtain necessary rights to key technologies needed for the discovery, development, production or commercialization of therapeutic antibodies through licensing agreements on terms attractive to us, if at all. If these licenses are not obtained, we might be prevented from using certain of our technologies for the generation and development of our new discoveries. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to obtain needed licenses, our ability to develop and commercialize product candidates derived from these new discoveries could be severely limited. Any patent infringement or other legal claims that might be brought against us may cause us to incur significant expenses, divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns and, if successfully asserted against us, require us to pay substantial damages. If our research and development programs fail to result in additional product candidates, our potential to generate revenue will be substantially limited. Our product candidates being developed in our research and development programs are at a relatively early stages and will require significant research, development, preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing scale-up activities, regulatory approval and/or commitments of significant resources before commercialization. We cannot predict whether our efforts will lead to the discovery and development of any additional product candidates that could generate revenues for us. 41 Table of Contents The failure to attract or retain key management or other personnel could decrease our ability to discover, develop and commercialize potential products. We depend on our senior executive officers as well as key scientific, management and other personnel. Only a small number of our key personnel are bound by employment agreements, and those with employment agreements are bound only for a limited period of time. Further, we have not purchased key-person life insurance policies for any of our executive officers or key personnel. Competition for scientists and other qualified employees is intense among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and the loss of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate the additional highly skilled employees required for the expansion of our activities, could hinder our ability to discover, develop and commercialize potential products. We may expand our business through the acquisition of companies or businesses or in-licensing product candidates that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We may in the future seek to expand our products and capabilities by acquiring one or more companies or businesses or in-licensing one or more product candidates. Acquisitions and in-licenses involve numerous risks, including: • substantial cash expenditures; • potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition; • difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies; • diverting our management’s attention away from other business concerns; • entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; and • potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies or businesses. Historically, we have not expanded our business through acquisition or in-licensing and, therefore, our experience in making acquisitions and in-licensing is limited. We cannot assure you that any acquisition or in-license will result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business or in-licensed product candidate. In addition, our future success would depend in part on our ability to manage the rapid growth associated with some of these acquisitions and in-licenses. We cannot assure you that we would be able to make the combination of our business with that of acquired businesses or companies or in-licensed product candidates work or be successful. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or company or in-licensed product candidate may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our capital stock, which could dilute our current shareholders’ ownership interest, or securities convertible into our capital stock, which could dilute current shareholders’ ownership interest upon conversion. Our patents and patent applications may not result in meaningful protection against competitors, provide us with any competitive advantage, or provide adequate protection or rights for new discoveries, and our competitors may commercialize the discoveries we patent or attempt to patent. We own or hold exclusive rights to many issued United States and foreign patents and pending patent applications related to the development and commercialization of our products and product candidates. These patents and applications cover composition-of-matter for genes, proteins, and antibodies, medical indications, methods of use, methods of making, formulations, technologies and other inventions related to therapeutic proteins and antibodies. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and product candidates in the United States and other countries, and our ability to obtain patents to future discoveries. 42 Table of Contents Although we diligently seek to identify and protect our important discoveries and inventions, we may fail to file timely patent applications. We cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Our pending and future patent applications covering products and product candidates may not meet the statutory requirements for patentability, meaning that our applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, and, if issued as patents, such patents may not be enforceable against a competitor. Our rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against competitive products or otherwise cover commercially valuable products or processes. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy for eighteen months after the filing of the applications, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be sure that the inventors of subject matter covered by our patents and patent applications were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications for these inventions. Our patents may not provide us with any competitive advantage. Although we have a number of issued patents, the discoveries or technologies covered by these patents may not have any value. These issued patents may not provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors, nor may they provide all rights necessary to commercialize our products or product candidates. In addition, we may not be able to or allowed to obtain patent term extension or restoration on patents covering our products in a manner that would provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors. While we have a number of issued patents, the discoveries or technologies covered by these patents may not have any therapeutic or commercial value. Also, our patents may not provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors. Other parties may have a dominating patent position covering a composition of matter, or discover alternative uses, for our products or product candidates, and these other uses may be separately patentable. In addition, other parties may be able to design around our issued patents or independently develop products having effects similar or identical to our patented product candidates. The business model of some companies is to “design around” patented marketed protein-based products by altering the amino acid sequence of the marketed product, thereby avoiding the patent, but maintaining functional equivalence. Similarly, it may be easier to develop equivalent versions of monoclonal antibodies and soluble receptors than to develop equivalent versions of the proteins with which they interact because there is often more than one antibody or receptor that can have the same therapeutic effect. Consequently, any existing or future patents we have that cover monoclonal antibodies or soluble receptors may not provide any meaningful protection against competitors. In addition, other parties may discover uses for genes or proteins that are different from the uses described in our patents, and these other uses may be separately patentable. If another party holds a patent on the use of a gene or protein, then even if we hold the patent covering the composition of matter of the gene or protein itself, that party might prevent us from promoting and selling any product directed to such use. Also, other parties may have patents covering the composition of matter of genes or proteins for which we have patents covering only methods of use or methods of manufacture. Furthermore, our patents on recombinant proteins or their precursors or methods of manufacturing such proteins, such as our patents covering the precursor to RECOTHROM and its method of manufacture, may not prevent competitors from developing other precursors or methods of manufacturing these proteins. Third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity or enforceability. Third parties may initiate other proceedings to limit the scope, validity or enforceability of our patents, including but not limited to inter-partes re-examination proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, opposition proceedings in patent authorities outside of the United States, or in the event a third party independently develops intellectual property similar to ours, interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of discovery or invention. Likewise, we may initiate inter-partes proceedings to challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of third party patents. The outcome of any such proceeding is uncertain and could result in judicial determinations that our patents are invalid, limited in scope, not infringed, and/or unenforceable, which would impair our business. Participating in such proceedings or other challenges, whether 43 Table of Contents initiated by us or by third parties may require significant expenditures and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns, which may also impair our business. Third parties may infringe our patents. Competitors and other third parties may infringe our patents, or use inventions described in our patent applications. It may be difficult or impossible for us to police third party activities and detect such infringement, for example, we may be unable to discover a competitor’s manufacturing process to determine whether it infringes a patent claims to a method of manufacture. Patent litigation is very expensive and time-consuming and is a distraction to management and personnel who are needed to supply evidence and support to litigation efforts. Enforcing our patents against third parties may require significant expenditures regardless of outcome. For example, in August 2006 we filed a lawsuit against Bristol-Myers Squibb for infringement of our patents related to fusion protein technology. The lawsuit, in which we are seeking injunctive relief and damages, was filed with the United States District Court for the district of Delaware, and is now at the stage of expert discovery. We may incur substantial expenditures in this and other patent litigation, and although we intend to pursue our cases vigorously, the outcome of any lawsuit is uncertain. Further, challenges raised in patent infringement litigation initiated by us or by third parties may result in determinations that our patents have not been infringed or that they are invalid, unenforceable or otherwise subject to limitations. Consequently, third parties may be able to use the discoveries or technologies claimed or described in our patents without paying licensing fees or royalties to us, which could significantly diminish the value of our intellectual property. We may be subject to patent infringement claims, which could result in substantial costs and liability and prevent us from commercializing our products and product candidates. Third parties may claim that our products or product candidates, or processes or related technologies infringe their patents. The risk of infringement claims is likely to increase as other companies obtain more patents and increase their efforts to discover and develop proteins, antibodies and methods that may be similar to or compete with products and product candidates in our research and development pipeline. Furthermore, we may not have identified all United States and foreign patents that pose a risk of our infringement. Any patent infringement or other legal claims that might be brought against us may cause us to incur significant expenses, divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns and, if successfully asserted against us, require us to pay substantial damages. In addition, as a result of a patent infringement suit, we may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling products or product candidates that are claimed to infringe a third party’s patent unless that party grants us rights to use its intellectual property. We may be unable to obtain these rights on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain rights to a third party’s patented intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, allowing our competitors to obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Patent protection for protein-based therapeutic products and other biotechnology inventions is subject to a great deal of uncertainty, and if patent laws or the interpretation of patent laws change, our competitors may be able to develop and commercialize products based on our discoveries. Patent protection for protein-based therapeutic products is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. In recent year, there have been significant changes in patent law, including the legal standards that govern the scope of protein and biotechnology patents. Standards for patentability of full-length and partial genes, and their corresponding proteins, are changing. Also, there is substantial uncertainty regarding the patentability of proteins without known function or specific correlation with diseases. Recent court decisions 44 Table of Contents have made it more difficult to obtain patents, by making it more difficult to satisfy the requirement of non-obviousness, have decreased the availability of injunctions against infringers, and have increased the likelihood of challenging the validity of a patent through a declaratory judgment action. Taken together, these decisions make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain, license and enforce our patents. In addition, in recent years, several members of the United States Congress have made numerous proposals to change the patent statute. These proposals include measures that, among other things, would expand the ability of third parties to oppose United States patents, introduce the “first to file” standard to the United States patent system, and limit damages an infringer is required to pay. If the patent statute is changed, the scope, validity and enforceability of our patents may be significantly decreased. There also have been, and continue to be, policy discussions concerning the scope of patent protection awarded to biotechnology inventions. Social and political opposition to biotechnology patents may lead to narrower patent protection within the biotechnology industry. Social and political opposition to patents on genes and proteins may lead to narrower patent protection, or narrower claim interpretation, for genes, their corresponding proteins and inventions related to their use, formulation and manufacture. Patent protection relating to biotechnology products is also subject to a great deal of uncertainty outside the United States, and patent laws are evolving and undergoing revision in many countries. Changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws worldwide may result in our inability to obtain or enforce patents, and may allow others to use our discoveries to develop and commercialize competitive products, which would impair our business. We expect to incur significant expenses in applying for patent protection and prosecuting our patent applications. Our success depends significantly on the establishment of patent protection for the products and product candidates in our research and development pipeline and related technologies we discover or invent. Consequently, we intend to continue our substantial efforts in applying for patent protection and prosecuting pending and future patent applications and maintaining patents. These efforts have historically required the expenditure of considerable time and money, and we expect that they will continue to require significant expenditures. We may fail to secure meaningful patent protection relating to any of our existing or future product candidates, discoveries or technologies despite the expenditure of considerable resources. In addition, future changes in United States or foreign patent laws may complicate or hinder our efforts to obtain patent protection and may significantly increase the costs associated with patent prosecution. We may be unable to protect our unpatented proprietary technology and information. In addition to our patented intellectual property, we also rely on trade secrets and confidential information. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights to such proprietary technology or information. Other parties may independently develop or gain access to equivalent technologies or information and disclose it for others to use. Disputes may arise about inventorship and corresponding rights to know-how and inventions resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by us and our corporate partners, licensees, scientific and academic collaborators and consultants. In addition, confidentiality agreements and material transfer agreements we have entered into with these parties and with employees and advisors may not provide effective protection of our proprietary technology or information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, may not provide adequate remedies. Environmental and health and safety laws may result in liabilities, expenses and restrictions on our operations. State and federal laws and regulations and those of foreign jurisdictions regarding environmental protection, hazardous substances and human health and safety may adversely affect our business. The use of hazardous substances in our operations exposes us to the risk of accidental releases. If our operations, including those of our strategic partners, result in contamination of the environment or expose individuals to hazardous substances, we 45 Table of Contents could be liable for damages and fines. Future changes to environmental and health and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expenses or restrict our operations. In addition, the site where our principal headquarters and facilities are located has been listed as a contaminated property by the State of Washington due to its previous use by the City of Seattle as an electricity generating plant. The City of Seattle has agreed to defend us against and indemnify us for any claims that arise from this pre-existing contamination, except to the extent that we caused the claim through our negligence or intentional fault, or to the extent that we contributed to the contamination that is the subject of the claim, caused an increase in the clean-up costs or failed to comply with our obligations under our agreement with the City of Seattle. This indemnity may be insufficient and we may be subject to environmental liabilities or be prohibited from using or occupying some or all of the property as a result of environmental claims. Natural or man-made disasters may impair our ability to conduct our business. While our headquarters and principal research and development operations are in Seattle, Washington, we also have partners, manufacturers, suppliers and distributors in various parts of the United States, Europe and Australia. Our facilities and those of our partners, manufacturers, suppliers or distributors may be subject to natural or man-made disasters. A natural or man-made disaster could cause damage to our facility, personnel or equipment, which in turn, could cause us to cease or curtail operations. Our business and financial position may also be affected by disasters affecting the operations of one of our partners, manufacturers, suppliers or distributors. Disasters may include, but are not limited to earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, fires, floods, power loss, communication failures and other similar events, including the effects of war or acts of terrorism. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously or completely impaired. Although we maintain insurance coverage for many of these types of risks, it may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Financial and Market Risks We anticipate incurring additional losses and may not achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $646 million. We expect to continue to incur significant losses over the next several years, and we may never become profitable. Although we began generating RECOTHROM sales revenue in January 2008, it will be a number of years before we generate revenues from sales of other potential products, if ever. Our revenues from the sales of RECOTHROM and existing collaborative and licensing arrangements are currently insufficient to cover our operating expenses, and we may never generate revenues sufficient to cover these expenses. In addition, we will continue to incur substantial expenses relating to our research, development and commercialization efforts. We anticipate that these expenses will increase as we focus on the laboratory tests and clinical trials required to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for the sale of products. The development and commercialization of our product candidates will require significant further research, development, testing, regulatory approvals and sales and marketing activities, including, in the immediate future, pursuing the commercialization of RECOTHROM. We may not be able to complete such development or succeed in developing and commercializing products that will generate revenues that will justify the costs of development and commercialization. We may not succeed in commercializing RECOTHROM, or any other product candidate. We may incur substantial operating losses for at least the next few years as we continue to expand our commercial function in the immediate future for RECOTHROM and our research and development activities for the other product candidates in our development pipeline. These losses have had and will have an adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity and working capital. Even if we become profitable in the future, we may not remain profitable. If we do not obtain substantial additional funding on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to grow our business or generate enough revenue to recover our investment in research and development. Our business does not currently generate the cash needed to finance our operations, and we do not expect it to in the near future. We anticipate that we will continue to expend substantial funds on our research and 46 Table of Contents development programs, the amount of which may increase in the future. We will need to seek additional funding through public or private financings, including equity financings, or through other arrangements, including collaborative and licensing arrangements. Poor financial results, unanticipated expenses or unanticipated opportunities that require financial commitments could give rise to additional financing requirements sooner than we expect. However, financing may be unavailable when we need it or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders will be diluted, and these securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If we are unable to raise additional funds when we need them, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate expenditures for some of our research or development or commercialization programs. We may also be required to grant rights to third parties to develop, commercialize and market products and product candidates that we would prefer to develop, commercialize and market internally, and such rights may be granted on terms that are not favorable to us. If we were required to grant such rights, the ultimate value of these products or product candidates to us would be reduced. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future, even with the revenue generated by sales of our first product, RECOTHROM, beginning in January 2008. Our revenues have been unpredictable and will fluctuate due to the slow or erratic uptake of RECOTHROM sales or the timing of licensing fees or the achievement of milestones under new or existing licensing and collaborative arrangements. In addition, our expenses may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to the timing of expenses, particularly with respect to contract manufacturing and clinical and nonclinical testing. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our past operating results are not good indicators of our future performance and should not be relied on to predict our future operating results. It is possible that in the future our operating results in a particular quarter or quarters will not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, causing the market price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. We are exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Some of our costs and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and, even if they are not as a matter of contract, vendors may seek concessions in the event that their anticipated economic return is impaired by exchange rate fluctuations. Most of our existing foreign expenses are associated with the manufacture of RECOTHROM, sharing of development costs with foreign partners or our global clinical studies. We are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates with Europe. When the United States dollar weakens against other currencies, the dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense increases, and when the dollar strengthens against other currencies, the dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense decreases. Consequently, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of the United States dollar, may adversely affect our results of operations. We currently do not hedge against our foreign currency risks. Risks Related to Our Industry Many of our competitors have substantially greater capabilities and resources than we do and may be able to develop and commercialize products before we do or more effectively than we do. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. We expect that competition in our field will continue to be intense. RECOTHROM and its line extensions, if any, will face substantial competition in the topical hemostat market from the current well-established participants, including King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Ethicon, Inc. and Baxter International, Inc., as well as any future entrants into this market. For our product candidates in development, we face competition from other entities involved in the research and development of therapeutic proteins, including Genentech, Inc., Human Genome Sciences, Inc., Medarex, Inc. and Biogen Idec Inc., among others. We also face competition from entities developing other types 47 Table of Contents of products related to particular diseases or medical conditions, including other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, our potential products, if approved and commercialized, may compete against well-established existing therapeutic protein-based products, many of which may be currently reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health insurers and health maintenance organizations. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater research and product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may: • succeed in identifying genes or proteins, or developing therapeutic protein-based products, earlier than we do; • obtain approvals for products from the FDA or other regulatory agencies more rapidly than we do; • obtain patents that block or otherwise inhibit our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates; • develop treatments or cures that are safer or more effective than those we propose to develop; • devote greater resources to marketing or selling their products; • introduce or adapt more quickly to new technologies or scientific advances, which could render our discovery technologies obsolete; • introduce products that make the continued development of our potential products uneconomical; • withstand price competition more successfully than we can; • more effectively negotiate third-party collaborative or licensing arrangements; and • take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities more readily than we can. Because of these potential disadvantages, we may not be able to compete effectively with these competitors. Our products and product candidates, even if approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies, may not achieve market acceptance among hospitals, insurers or patients. Our products and product candidates, even if approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies, may fail to achieve market acceptance, which would impair our ability to become profitable. We believe that market acceptance of our products and product candidates will depend on: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety, efficacy and limited side effects; • our ability to provide these products and product candidates at reasonable prices; • the availability of third-party reimbursement for these products and product candidates; • our ability to differentiate our products and compete effectively, including with products that are considered to be the standard of care; and • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing capabilities. If the healthcare system, reimbursement policies or any other healthcare related regulations change, the prices of our products and product candidates may fall or our potential sales may decline. In recent years, officials have made numerous proposals to change the healthcare system in the United States. These proposals include measures that would limit or prohibit payments for certain medical procedures and treatments or subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control. Government and other third-party payors increasingly have attempted to control healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of newly approved healthcare products. Increasingly, third-party payors have been challenging 48 Table of Contents the prices charged for products. They may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted marketing approval. The government may adopt future legislative proposals, such as price controls on prescription drugs, and federal, state or private payors for healthcare goods and services may take further action to limit payments for healthcare products and services. In addition, in certain foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control with many of the same types of challenges as in the United States. Any of these factors could limit our ability to successfully commercialize our potential products. We may face increased competition from lower priced products re-imported into the United States from Canada and other countries. The current law, enacted in December 2003, allows the importation of drugs from Canada, but only if the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that importation will pose no additional risk to the public’s health and safety. To date, no such certifications have been given. Legislative proposals have been made to change the law to allow importation without any certification. If this or other new legislation or regulations were passed allowing the reimportation of drugs, it could adversely affect the prices of our potential products. In addition, there has been much discussion regarding the creation of laws permitting “follow-on” or “generic” versions of biologics. While there is not currently an abbreviated approval pathway for biologics as there is with branded drugs, Congress and the FDA are studying the issue and there is increasing interest from the public. An abbreviated pathway for “follow-on” biologics may permit sponsors of follow-on products to reference data submitted by innovator developers like ourselves and may not require full clinical trials, significantly lowering the financial barriers to entry. The approval of “follow-on” biologics could result in new and increased competition, including competition prior to expiration of our patents covering our products, and related litigation. Negative public opinion and increased regulatory scrutiny of genetic and clinical research may limit our ability to conduct our business. Ethical, social and legal concerns about genetic and clinical research could result in additional regulations restricting or prohibiting some of our activities or the activities of our suppliers and collaborators. In recent years, federal and state agencies, congressional committees and foreign governments have expressed interest in further regulating the biotechnology industry. More restrictive regulations could delay nonclinical studies or future clinical trials, or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals or commercializing any products. In addition, animal rights activists may protest our use of animals in research and development and may attempt to disrupt our operations, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and distract our management’s attention from other business concerns. The marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and biologics is subject to extensive regulation and aggressive government enforcement, and our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products will be subject to extensive regulation under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal statutes and associated regulations. These laws and regulations limit the types of marketing claims and other communications we can make regarding marketed products. We are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws prohibit payments of any kind intended to induce physicians or others either to purchase or arrange for or recommend the purchase of healthcare products or services, including the selection of a particular prescription drug. These laws make certain business practices that are relatively common in other industries illegal in our industry. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent. The government has 49 Table of Contents asserted very broad interpretations of these laws against pharmaceutical manufacturers, even though these manufacturers did not directly submit claims for reimbursement to government payors. Violations of the above laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have in recent years been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulation, including claims asserting violations of the federal False Claims Act, the federal anti-kickback statute, and other violations in connection with off-label promotion of products, pricing, and government price reporting. While we will strive to comply with these complex requirements, the interpretation of these laws as applied to particular sales and marketing practices continues to evolve, and it is possible that our sales and marketing practices might be challenged. Further, although we have taken measures to prevent potential challenges, including through our corporate compliance program, we cannot guarantee that such measures will protect us from future challenges, lawsuits or investigations. Even if such challenges are without merit, they could cause adverse publicity, divert management attention and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, including impact on our stock price. In addition, our strategic partners and licensees are required to comply with comparably complex requirements in jurisdictions outside the United States. For example, we may be required to prepare and report product pricing-related information to federal and state governmental authorities, such as the Veterans Administration and under the Medicaid program. The calculations used to generate the pricing-related information are complex and require the exercise of judgment. If we fail to accurately and timely report product pricing-related information or to comply with any of these or any other laws or regulations, various negative consequences could result, including criminal and/or civil prosecution, substantial criminal and/or civil penalties, exclusion of the approved product from coverage under governmental healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid), costly litigation and restatement of our financial statements. In addition, our efforts to comply with this wide range of laws and regulations are, and will continue to be, time-consuming and expensive. We may be required to defend lawsuits and pay damages in connection with alleged or actual harm caused by our products and product candidates. As we begin to commercialize products, we face an increased risk of litigation. For example, with RECOTHROM on the market, the risk of product liability claims will increase. Further, patent infringement claims involving RECOTHROM will no longer be exempt under 35 USC 271(e)(1), so we face increased risks of patent litigation. Our marketing and promotional efforts for RECOTHROM could increase the risk of litigation based on claims of unfair competition. For product candidates still in development, we face the risk of product liability claims in the event that the use of our product candidates in clinical trials is alleged to have resulted in harm to others. We may incur significant expenses if any of these lawsuits against us were to be successful. Even if such lawsuits are without merit or otherwise unsuccessful, they could cause adverse publicity, divert management attention and be costly to respond to, and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including negatively impacting our share price. Although we maintain product liability and general insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to cover such claims. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors beyond our control, including: • changes in the recommendations of securities analysts or changes in their financial estimates of our operating results; • recommendations or opinions of journalists, media personalities or market commentators; • failures in meeting performance expectations of securities analysts or investors; 50 Table of Contents • fluctuations in the valuations of companies perceived by securities analysts or investors to be comparable to us; and • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. In particular, there have been high levels of volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. We are at risk of securities class action litigation due to our expected stock price volatility. In the past, shareholders have often brought securities class action litigation against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially acute for us, because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years and, as a result, have been subject to, on average, a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in other industries. We may in the future be the target of securities class action litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs, could divert management’s attention and resources, and could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our shareholders have significant control of our management and affairs, which they could exercise against other shareholders’ best interests. Novo Nordisk, together with Warburg Pincus Equity Partners, L.P., beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 41% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007. Representatives of these shareholders hold four out of nine seats on our board of directors pursuant to a shareholders agreement. These shareholders, acting together, have the ability to significantly influence our management and affairs and matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, these shareholders, acting together, may be able to cause a change in control, as well as delay or prevent a change in control. They may also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to effect a change in control, even if such a change in control would benefit our other shareholders. Provisions in Washington law, our charter documents and executive employment agreements we have entered into may prevent, discourage or delay a change of control. We are subject to the Washington anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers, which, with limited exceptions, prohibit a “target corporation” from engaging in certain “significant business transactions” for a period of five years after the share acquisition by an acquiring person, unless (i) the prohibited transaction or the acquiring person’s purchase of shares was approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors prior to the acquiring person’s share acquisition or (ii) the prohibited transaction was both approved by the majority of the members of the target corporation’s board and authorized at a shareholder meeting by at least two thirds of the outstanding voting shares (excluding the acquiring person’s shares) at or subsequent to the acquiring person’s share acquisition. An “acquiring person” is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation. Such prohibited transactions include, among other things: • certain mergers or consolidations with, dispositions of assets to, or issuances of stock to or redemptions of stock from, the acquiring person; 51 Table of Contents • termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation as a result of the acquiring person’s acquisition of 10% or more of the shares; • allowing the acquiring person to receive any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder; and • liquidating or dissolving the target corporation. After the five-year period, certain “significant business transactions” are permitted, as long as they comply with certain “fair price” provisions of the statute or are approved by a majority of the outstanding shares other than those of which the acquiring person has beneficial ownership. A corporation may not “opt out” of this statute. As such, these laws could prohibit or delay mergers or a change of control and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions, such as undesignated preferred stock and prohibitions on cumulative voting in the election of directors, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Also, our articles of incorporation provide for a staggered board, removal of directors generally only for cause and certain requirements for calling special shareholder meetings. Further, our bylaws require advance notice of shareholder proposals and nominations and impose restrictions on the persons who may call special shareholder meetings. These provisions may have the effect of preventing or hindering any attempts by our shareholders to replace our current board of directors or management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 