ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements and financial discussion and analysis by management contained throughout this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements herein include, without limitation, the factors set forth below. Risks Relating to our Bank and the Banking Business Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets and deteriorating economic conditions generally. The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) declared that recessionary conditions in the United States began in December 2007. Negative developments in 2007 and 2008 in the financial services industry resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related economic downturn, which continued into 2009. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions remains at relatively low levels even into early 2010, and many local governments and businesses are in serious difficulty due to the low level of consumer and business confidence and the lack of spending. Unemployment has increased significantly, to around 10% at the national level and over 12% for the State of California. The NBER has not yet established an official date for the end of the recession. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008 and first half of 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all other asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also contributed to the failure of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further systemic losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with them as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in rates on advances from the Federal Reserve and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have been reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of many financial institutions worldwide. In 2008 and 2009, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators took numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing approximately $250 billion in the equity of banking organizations, but asset values continued to decline and access to liquidity remains limited for weakened institutions. As a result of these financial and economic crises, many lending institutions, including our company, have experienced significant declines in the performance of their loans, particularly construction, development and land loans, and unsecured commercial and consumer loans. Our total nonperforming assets increased to $72.6 million at December 31, 2009 from $37.0 million at December 31, 2008, representing 7.98% and 3.88% of total gross loans and other real estate owned at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for quality loans has increased. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Financial institution stock prices have been negatively affected, and the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets has become more difficult compared to recent years. As a result, there is the potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies have been very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the issuance of many regulatory enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation or regulatory orders in 15 Table of Contents response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and could adversely impact our financial performance or stock price. In addition, continued negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increased delinquencies and default rates, which could further increase our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the already adverse impact on us and others in the financial services industry. The California economy has been particularly hard hit, and the economic decline has been a major factor leading to the significant increase in the Company’s nonperforming assets and loan charge-offs. While unemployment levels have always been relatively high in the San Joaquin Valley, in Tulare County, which is our geographic center and the base of our agriculturally oriented communities, the unemployment rate reached 17.5% in December 2009, up from 14.3% in December 2008 and well above the 12.4% aggregate unemployment rate for California. Overall, the general business environment and local market conditions have had an adverse effect on our business during the past year, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, it is expected that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Conditions which have a negative impact on the agricultural industry could have an adverse effect on our customers and their ability to make payments to us. While the current spike up in the Company’s nonperforming assets is comprised mainly of other real estate owned and loans secured by land, lots, and residential real estate, many of our large increases in years past have been the direct consequence of persistent agricultural difficulties. This is due to the fact that a sizable portion of our total loan portfolio consists of loans to borrowers either directly or indirectly involved in the agricultural industry. While a great number of our borrowers may not be individually involved in agriculture, many of the jobs in the San Joaquin Valley are ancillary to the regular production, processing, marketing and sales of agricultural commodities. The entry of global suppliers into the market has, in the past, led to a supply glut for many agricultural products, and a drop in consumer demand is currently impacting the agricultural industry. Because of increased supply from overseas competition, declining demand and other factors, low prices currently characterize the markets for many agricultural products. The ripple effect of lower commodity prices for milk, nuts, olives, grapes, oranges and tree fruit has a tendency to depress land prices, lower borrower income, and decrease collateral values. A degenerative cycle of weather also has the potential to adversely affect agricultural industries as well as consumer purchasing power, and has the potential to create further unemployment throughout the San Joaquin Valley. Weather patterns are also of critical importance to row crop, tree fruit, and orange production. Another potential looming issue that could have a major impact on the agricultural industry involves water distribution rights. If the amount of water available to agriculture becomes increasingly scarce due to drought and/or diversion to other uses, farmers may not be able to continue to produce agricultural products at a reasonable profit, which has the potential to force many out of business. Such conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our borrowers and, by extension, our business, and if general agricultural conditions decline further our level of nonperforming assets could increase. Concentrations of real estate loans could subject us to increased risks in the event of a prolonged real estate recession or natural disaster. Our loan portfolio is heavily concentrated in real estate loans, particularly commercial real estate. At December 31, 2009, more than 75% of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate. Balances secured by commercial properties and construction and development loans represent 63% of all real estate loans, while loans secured by residential properties account for 28%, and loans secured by farmland are 9% of real estate loans. The $35.6 million increase in nonperforming assets experienced by the Company in 2009 includes an $18.5 million increase in foreclosed assets, including other real estate owned (OREO) which consists primarily of vacant land, lots, and residential properties. The remainder of the increase is comprised of nonperforming loans, including an $11 million increase in nonperforming real estate loans. See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Nonperforming Assets,” for a detailed discussion of this increase. The Central Valley residential real estate market experienced declining prices and increasing foreclosures during 2008 and the first half of 2009. If residential real estate values slide further, and/or if this weakness flows over into 16 Table of Contents commercial real estate, the Company’s nonperforming assets could increase from current levels. Such an increase could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations by reducing our income, increasing our expenses, and leaving less cash available for lending and other activities. As noted above, the primary collateral for many of our loans consists of commercial real estate properties, and continued deterioration in the real estate market in the areas the Company serves would likely reduce the value of the collateral value for many of our loans and could negatively impact the repayment ability of many of our borrowers. It might also reduce further the amount of loans the Company makes to businesses in the construction and real estate industry, which could negatively impact our organic growth prospects. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural disaster like those California has experienced in the past, including earthquakes, brush fires, and flooding, could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans and negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, banking regulators are now giving commercial real estate loans greater scrutiny, due to risks relating to the cyclical nature of the real estate market and related risks for lenders with high concentrations of such loans. The regulators have required banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement enhanced underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, which has resulted in higher allowances for possible loan losses. Expectations for higher capital levels have also materialized. See “Regulation and Supervision – Commercial Real Estate Lending Concentrations” above. We may experience loan and lease losses in excess of our allowance for loan and lease losses. We are careful in our loan underwriting process in order to limit the risk that borrowers might fail to repay; nevertheless, losses can and do occur. We create an allowance for estimated loan and lease losses in our accounting records, based on estimates of the following: • industry standards; • historical experience with our loans; • evaluation of economic conditions; • regular reviews of the quality mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; • a detailed cash flow analysis for nonperforming loans; • regular reviews of delinquencies; and • the quality of the collateral underlying our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses at a level that we believe is adequate to absorb specifically identified losses as well as any other losses inherent in our loan portfolio at a given date. However, changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which are beyond our control, may cause our actual loan losses to exceed our current allowance estimates. If actual losses exceed the amount reserved, it will have a negative impact on our profitability. In addition, the FDIC and the DFI, as part of their supervisory functions, periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses. Such agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan and lease losses or to recognize further losses, based on their judgments, which may be different from those of our management. Any increase in the allowance required by the FDIC or the DFI could also hurt our business. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make a loan on or secured by real property does not ensure the value of the real property collateral. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property. Our expenses have increased and are likely to continue to increase as a result of higher FDIC insurance premiums. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits at any time that the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. Recent bank failures have depleted the deposit insurance fund balance, which was in a negative position by the end of 2009, and the FDIC currently has eight years to bring the reserve ratio back to the statutory minimum. The FDIC expects insured institution failures to peak in 2010, which will result in continued charges against the Deposit Insurance Fund, and they have implemented a restoration plan that changes both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. As part of this plan, the FDIC imposed a special assessment in 2009 and also required the prepayment of three years of FDIC insurance premiums at the end of 2009. See “Regulation and Supervision – Deposit Insurance” above. The prepayments are designed to help address liquidity 17 Table of Contents issues created by potential timing differences between the collection of premiums and charges against the DIF, but it is generally expected that assessment rates will continue to increase in the near term due to the significant cost of bank failures and the relatively large number of troubled banks. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain banking customers, and our efforts to compete may reduce our profitability. Competition in the banking industry in the markets we serve may limit our ability to continue to attract and retain banking customers. The banking business in our current and intended future market areas is highly competitive with respect to virtually all products and services. In California generally, and in our service areas specifically, branches of major banks dominate the commercial banking industry. Such banks have substantially greater lending limits than we have, offer certain services we cannot offer directly, and often operate with “economies of scale” that result in lower operating costs than ours on a per loan or per asset basis. We also compete with numerous financial and quasi-financial institutions for deposits and loans, including providers of financial services over the Internet. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, with the increase in bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. Ultimately, competition can and does increase our cost of funds, reduce loan yields and drive down our net interest margin, thereby reducing profitability. It can also make it more difficult for us to continue to increase the size of our loan portfolio and deposit base, and could cause us to rely more heavily on wholesale borrowings, which are generally more expensive than deposits. See “Item 1, Business – Competition.” If we are not able to successfully keep pace with technological changes affecting the industry, our business could be hurt. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better service clients and reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands, as well as create additional efficiencies within our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change in the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, on our financial condition and results of operations. If our information systems were to experience a system failure or a breach in security, our business and reputation could suffer. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. In addition, we must be able to protect our computer systems and network infrastructure against physical damage, security breaches and service disruption caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure. We have protective measures in place to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems and will continue to implement security technology and monitor and update operational procedures to prevent such damage. However, if such failures, interruptions or security breaches were to occur, they could result in damage to our reputation, a loss of customer business, increased regulatory scrutiny, or possible exposure to financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents If the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and other recently enacted government programs do not help stabilize the U.S. financial system, our operations could be adversely affected. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (as augmented by the Stimulus Bill) was intended to stabilize and provide liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators have implemented a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). We did not elect to participate in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, but we are a participant in the TLGP. It cannot currently be predicted what impact the EESA and other programs will ultimately have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA is relatively new legislation and, as such, is subject to change and evolving interpretation. As a result, it is impossible to predict the effects that such changes will have on the effectiveness of the EESA or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral held by us cannot be liquidated at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our earnings are subject to interest rate risk. Banking companies’ earnings depend largely on the relationship between the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings, and the yield on earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board and the international interest rate environment, as well as by economic, regulatory and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, and the level of nonperforming assets. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We are subject to interest rate risk to the degree that our interest bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than our interest earning assets. Fluctuations in interest rates also affect the demand of customers for our products and services. Given the current volume, mix, and re-pricing characteristics of the Company’s interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points over the next 12 months, interest-earning assets would initially re-price more slowly than interest-bearing liabilities which could have a slight negative impact on our net interest margin, all else being equal. The more rates rise, however, the more asset-sensitive we become and the more the initial negative impact would be offset. If interest rates were to decline, rates on many of our deposits would hit natural floors of close to zero while asset yields would continue to decline, compressing our net interest margin and also creating a negative impact on net interest income. There are also scenarios where fluctuations in interest rates in either direction could have a more substantial negative effect on net income. For example, if funding rates rise faster than asset yields in a rising rate environment (i.e., if basis compression occurs), or if we do not actively manage certain loan index rates in a declining rate environment, we could be negatively impacted. See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Market Risk Management – Interest Rate Risk Management.” We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to implement our business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and success depends in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain or motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. If we are not able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified 19 Table of Contents personnel, our business operations would be hurt. Our President/Chief Executive Officer has been with us since the Bank’s inception in 1977. He is fully vested in his retirement benefits, but does not currently have any plans for immediate retirement. Our Executive Vice President/Chief Credit Officer and our Executive Vice President/Chief Financial Officer joined us in 2005 and 2001, respectively. Our Executive Vice President/Chief Banking Officer joined the Bank in 2001 and was promoted to his current position in 2006. None of our executive officers have employment agreements. Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to sell shares of common stock at times or at prices you find attractive. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, and other factors identified elsewhere in this “RISK FACTORS” section. In addition, the stock market is subject to broad fluctuations that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies, including ours. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Among the factors that could affect our common stock price in the future are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; • formal regulatory action against us; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • acquisitions of other banks or financial institutions, through FDIC-assisted transactions or otherwise; • actions by institutional shareholders; • fluctuations in the stock price, trading volumes, and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to the financial services industry; • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involve or affect us; and • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual with significant price variations occurring. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. You may not be able to sell your shares at the times and in the amounts you want if the trading market for our stock is not active. Although our stock has been listed on NASDAQ for many years, trading in our stock does not consistently occur in high volumes and cannot always be characterized as amounting to an active trading market. Your investment may be diluted because of the ability of management to offer stock to others and stock options. The shares of our common stock do not have preemptive rights. This means that you may not be entitled to buy additional shares if shares are offered to others in the future. We are authorized to issue 24,000,000 shares of common stock, and as of December 31, 2009 we had 11,620,491 shares of our common stock outstanding. Nothing restricts management’s ability to offer additional shares of stock for fair value to others in the future. In addition, when our directors, executive officers and key employees exercise any of their stock options, your ownership in the Company will be diluted. As of December 31, 2009 there were outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 757,658 shares of our common stock with an average exercise price of $15.12 per share. There were also an additional 1,160,000 shares available remaining for grant under our 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. Shares of our preferred stock issued in the future could have dilutive and other effects. Shares of our preferred stock eligible for future issuance and sale could have a dilutive effect on the market for shares of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents Our Articles of Incorporation authorize us to issue 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, none of which is presently outstanding. Although our Board of Directors has no present intent to authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock, such shares could be authorized in the future. If such shares of preferred stock are made convertible into shares of common stock, there could be a dilutive effect on the shares of common stock then outstanding. In addition, shares of preferred stock may be provided a preference over holders of common stock upon our liquidation or with respect to the payment of dividends, in respect of voting rights or in the redemption of our common stock. The rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions applicable to any series or preferred stock would be determined by resolution of our Board of Directors. The holders of our debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders. In 2004 we issued $15,464,000 of junior subordinated debt securities due March 17, 2034 and in 2006 we issued an additional $15,464,000 of junior subordinated debt securities due September 23, 2036 in order to raise additional regulatory capital. These junior subordinated debt securities are senior to the shares of our common stock. As a result, we must make interest payments on the debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock, and in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holder of the debt securities must be paid in full before any distributions may be made to the holders of our common stock. In addition, we have the right to defer interest payments on the junior subordinated debt securities for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our common stock. In the event that the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, then we may be unable to pay the amounts due to the holders of the junior subordinated debt securities and, thus, we would be unable to declare and pay any dividends on our common stock. Our directors and executive officers control a large amount of our stock, and your interests may not always be the same as those of the board and management. As of December 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers together with their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 17% of the Company’s outstanding voting stock (not including vested option shares). As a result, if all of these shareholders were to take a common position, they might be able to affect the election of directors as well as the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as the approval of mergers or other business combinations. Such concentration may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. In some situations, the interests of our directors and executive officers may be different from the shareholders. However, our directors and executive officers have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interest of the shareholders, rather than in their own best interests, when considering a proposed business combination or any of these types of matters. Provisions in our articles of incorporation will delay or prevent changes in control of our corporation or our management. These provisions make it more difficult for another company to acquire us, which could reduce the market price of our common stock and the price that you receive if you sell your shares in the future. These provisions include staggered terms of office for members of the board of directors; no cumulative voting in the election of directors; and the requirement that our Board of Directors consider the potential social and economic effects on our employees, depositors, customers and the communities we serve as well as certain other factors, when evaluating a possible tender offer, merger or other acquisition of the Company. The Company relies heavily on the payment of dividends from the Bank. Other than $4.6 million in cash available at the holding company level at December 31, 2009, our ability to meet debt service requirements and to pay dividends depends on the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us, as we have no other source of significant income. However, the Bank is subject to regulations limiting the amount of dividends it may pay to us. For example, the payment of dividends by the Bank is affected by the requirement to maintain adequate capital pursuant to the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. All banks and bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum ratio of qualifying total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8.0%, at least one-half of which must be in the form of Tier 1 capital, and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to average adjusted assets of 4.0%. If (i) any of these required ratios are increased; (ii) the total of risk-weighted assets of the Bank increases significantly; and/or (iii) the Bank’s income decreases significantly, the Bank’s Board of Directors may decide or be required to retain a greater portion of the Bank’s earnings to achieve and maintain the required capital or asset ratios. This will reduce the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends by the Bank to us. The Bank has also informally committed to the FDIC and the DFI that it will obtain the prior written consent of both agencies prior to paying any cash dividends, although the Company has sufficient cash on hand to cover anticipated expenses and dividend payments to shareholders through the end of 2010 without supplemental dividends from the Bank. Further, in some cases, the Federal Reserve Board could take the position that it has the power to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends if, in its view, such payments would constitute unsafe or unsound banking practices. The Bank’s ability to 21 Table of Contents pay dividends to us is also limited by the California Financial Code. Whether dividends are paid and their frequency and amount will also depend on the financial condition and performance, and the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Bank. Information concerning the Company’s dividend policy and historical dividend practices is set forth below in Item 5. However, no assurance can be given that our future performance will justify the payment of dividends in any particular year. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 