ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements and financial discussion and analysis by management contained throughout this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements herein include, without limitation, the factors set forth below. Poor economic conditions in our market areas could hurt our business materially. A substantial majority of our assets and deposits are generated in the San Joaquin Valley in central California. As a result, poor economic conditions in this region could cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. Current national and local economic indicators point toward the strong possibility of recession, although neither the severity nor the duration of a slump in economic activity can be projected with any degree of accuracy. The economic decline has already contributed to a significant increase in the Company’s non-performing assets. If the decline develops into a recession, the strong growth experienced in the south and central San Joaquin Valley in recent years would likely come to a temporary halt. That growth has occurred for a number of reasons. The area’s relatively inexpensive real estate and central proximity to both Southern and Northern California have attracted a growing number of warehouse and distribution facilities, as well as manufacturing, health, and other service companies. The low cost of housing has also drawn retirees from more expensive areas of California. Despite the economic growth that has occurred, unemployment levels have been relatively high in the San Joaquin Valley. In Tulare County, for example, 15 Table of Contents which is our geographic center and the base of our agriculturally oriented communities, the unemployment rate was 10.9% in December 2007, almost double the 6.1% aggregate unemployment rate for California for the same month. The unemployment rate for Tulare County has been improving, however, dropping to an average of 9% for 2007 and 2006 from 10% in 2005, almost 12% for 2001 through 2004, and nearly 16% for 1990 through 2000. A slowdown in construction and economic activity has the potential to reverse this favorable trend. Conditions which have a negative impact on the agricultural industry could have an adverse effect on our customers and their ability to make payments to us. While the current spike up in the Company’s non-performing assets is comprised mainly of loans secured by residential and commercial real estate, much of our large increases in years past have been the direct consequence of persistent agricultural difficulties. This is due to the fact that a sizable portion of our total loan portfolio consists of loans to borrowers either directly or indirectly involved in the agricultural industry. While a great number of our borrowers may not be individually involved in agriculture, many of the jobs in the San Joaquin Valley are ancillary to the regular production, processing, marketing and sales of agricultural commodities. Global competition is another significant issue affecting the agricultural industry. Because of increased global competition and other factors, excess supply and low prices currently characterize the markets for many agricultural products. The ripple effect of lower commodity prices for milk, nuts, olives, grapes, oranges and tree fruit has a tendency to depress land prices, lower borrower income, and decrease collateral values. A degenerative cycle of weather and commodity prices can also impact consumer purchasing power, which has the potential to create further unemployment throughout the San Joaquin Valley. Weather patterns in particular are of critical importance to row crop, tree fruit, and orange production. By way of example, the recent freeze in the San Joaquin Valley destroyed much of the orange crop as well as various other goods. Many large growers, packing houses, and transportation companies carry insurance to help offset the detrimental impact of the freeze, and were able to continue operations with minimal financial disruption. Many small-acreage farmers, however, do not have insurance coverage and encountered severe economic difficulties. Likewise, the laborers involved in picking and packing typically do not have backup resources when employment prospects disappear, and are forced to rely on donations and government assistance rather than patronize the retail outlets that they otherwise might. It should be noted that the recent freeze in and of itself did not have a noticeable impact on our operations, but if general agricultural conditions do not improve our level of non-performing assets could increase. Such conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our borrowers and, by extension, our business. Concentrations of real estate loans could subject us to increased risks in the event of a real estate recession or natural disaster. Our loan portfolio is heavily concentrated in real estate loans, particularly commercial real estate. At December 31, 2007, 75% of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate. Balances secured by commercial properties and construction and development loans represent $457 million of this amount, while loans secured by residential properties and loans secured by farmland represent $187 million and $52 million, respectively. Total non-performing assets increased $8.9 million during 2007, ending the year at $9.6 million relative to only $689,000 at December 31, 2006. Nearly $7 million of the increase was in loans secured by commercial properties and construction and development loans. Non-accruing residential real estate loans increased by $666,000, and foreclosed assets were $556,000 higher. Non-performing assets represented 1.04% and 0.08% of total gross loans and other real estate owned at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Nonperforming Assets,” for a detailed discussion of this increase. The Central Valley residential real estate market experienced declining prices and a slower sales pace during 2007. If residential real estate values and sales continue to slide, and/or if this weakness flows over into commercial real estate, the Company’s nonperforming assets could increase further. Such an increase could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations, by reducing our income, increasing our expenses, and leaving less cash available for lending and other activities. As noted above, the primary collateral for many of our loans consists of commercial real estate properties, and deterioration in the real estate market in the areas the Company serves would likely reduce the value of the collateral value for many of our loans and could negatively impact the repayment ability of many of our borrowers. It might also reduce the amount of loans the Company makes 16 Table of Contents to businesses in the construction and real estate industry, which could negatively impact our organic growth prospects. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural disaster like those California has experienced in the past, including earthquakes, brush fires, and flooding, could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans and negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, the banking regulators are now giving commercial real estate loans greater scrutiny, due to perceived risks relating to the cyclical nature of the real estate market and the related risks for lenders with high concentrations of such loans. The regulators may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, and might require higher levels of allowances for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. See “Regulation and Supervision – Commercial Real Estate Lending Concentrations” above. We may experience loan and lease losses in excess of our allowance for loan and lease losses. We are careful in our loan underwriting process in order to limit the risk that borrowers might fail to repay; nevertheless, losses can and do occur. We create an allowance for estimated loan and lease losses in our accounting records, based on estimates of the following: • industry standards; • historical experience with our loans; • evaluation of economic conditions; • regular reviews of the quality mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; • a detailed cash flow analysis for non-performing loans; • regular reviews of delinquencies; and • the quality of the collateral underlying our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses at a level that we believe is adequate to absorb any specifically identified losses as well as any other losses inherent in our loan portfolio. However, changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that are beyond our control, may cause our actual loan losses to exceed our current allowance estimates. If actual losses exceed the amount reserved, it will have a negative impact on our profitability. In addition, the FDIC and the DFI, as part of their supervisory functions, periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses. Such agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan and lease losses or to recognize further losses, based on their judgments, which may be different from those of our management. Any increase in the allowance required by the FDIC or the DFI could also hurt our business. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain banking customers at current levels, and our efforts to compete may reduce our profitability. Competition in the banking industry in the markets we serve may limit our ability to continue to attract and retain banking customers. The banking business in our current and intended future market areas is highly competitive with respect to virtually all products and services. In California generally, and in our service areas specifically, branches of major banks dominate the commercial banking industry. Such banks have substantially greater lending limits than we have, offer certain services we cannot offer directly, and often operate with “economies of scale” that result in lower operating costs than ours on a per loan or per asset basis. We also compete with numerous financial and quasi-financial institutions for deposits and loans, including providers of financial services over the Internet. Ultimately, competition can and does increase our cost of funds, reduce loan yields and drive down our net interest margin, thereby reducing profitability. It can also make it more difficult for us to continue to increase the size of our loan portfolio and deposit base, and could cause us to rely more heavily on borrowings, which are generally more expensive than deposits. See “Item 1, Business – Competition.” Our earnings are subject to interest rate risk, especially if rates rise. Banking companies’ earnings depend largely on the relationship between the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings, and the yield on earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board and the international interest rate environment, as well as by economic, regulatory and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, and the level of nonperforming assets. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We are subject to interest rate risk to the degree that our interest bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than our interest earning assets. Fluctuations in interest rates also affect the demand of customers for our products and services. 17 Table of Contents Given the current volume, mix, and re-pricing characteristics of the Company’s interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, our interest rate spread is expected to decrease slightly in a rising rate environment but should remain relatively stable in declining interest rate scenarios. However, there are scenarios where fluctuations in interest rates in either direction could have a negative effect on net income. For example, if funding rates rise faster than asset yields in a rising rate environment (i.e., if basis compression occurs), or if we do not actively manage certain loan index rates in a declining rate environment, we could be negatively impacted. See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Market Risk Management – Interest Rate Risk Management.” We may have difficulty managing our growth. Management intends to leverage the Company’s current infrastructure to grow assets, and the addition of new branches has been tentatively planned. Our ability to manage growth will depend primarily on our ability to: • monitor and manage expanded operations; • control funding costs and operating expenses; • maintain positive customer relations; and • attract, assimilate and retain qualified personnel. If we fail to achieve these objectives in an efficient and timely manner we may experience disruptions in our business plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. You may not be able to sell your shares at the times and in the amounts you want if the trading market for our stock does not remain active. Although our stock has been listed on NASDAQ for many years, trading in our stock does not consistently occur in high volumes and cannot always be characterized as amounting to an active trading market. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to implement our business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and success depends in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain or motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. If we are not able to retain our existing key personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel, our business operations would be hurt. Our President/Chief Executive Officer has been with us since the Bank’s inception in 1977. He became fully vested in his retirement benefits upon reaching the age of 66, but he does not currently have any plans for immediate retirement. Our Executive Vice President/Chief Credit Officer and our Executive Vice President/Chief Financial Officer joined us in 2005 and 2001, respectively. Our Executive Vice President/Chief Banking Officer joined the Bank in 2001 and was promoted to his current position in 2006. None of our executive officers have employment agreements. Our directors and executive officers control a large amount of our stock, and your interests may not always be the same as those of the board and management. As of December 31, 2007, our directors and executive officers together with their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 22% of the Company’s outstanding voting stock (not including vested option shares). As a result, if all of these shareholders were to take a common position, they would be able to significantly affect the election of directors as well as the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as the approval of mergers or other business combinations. Such concentration may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. In some situations, the interests of our directors and executive officers may be different from the shareholders. However, our board of directors and executive officers have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interest of the shareholders, rather than in their own best interests, when considering a proposed business combination or any of these types of matters. Provisions in our articles of incorporation will delay or prevent changes in control of our corporation or our management. These provisions make it more difficult for another company to acquire us, which could reduce the market price of our common stock and the price that you receive if you sell your shares in the future. These provisions include the following: • staggered terms of office for members of the board of directors; 18 Table of Contents • no cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • the requirement that our Board of Directors consider the potential social and economic effects on our employees, depositors, customers and the communities we serve as well as certain other factors, when evaluating a possible tender offer, merger or other acquisition of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 