Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial performance or achievements to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “intend,” “potential,” “project” or other similar words. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We design, develop and market analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products that enable and enhance the features and capabilities of consumer electronic products. We outsource all of the fabrication, assembly and testing of our products to outside subcontractors. We were incorporated in Delaware on May 15, 2000, and began commercially shipping products in the third quarter of 2002. Traditionally, our core products have been mixed-signal color display drivers with integrated controllers, which are critical components of displays used in portable consumer electronic devices. Beginning in 2007, we expanded our product offerings to include light-emitting diode, or LED, drivers, power management, touch technology and consumer audio analog integrated circuits, or ICs. Until recently, we have sold our products primarily to display module manufacturers, which incorporate our products into their display module subassemblies for portable handset manufacturers. Our end market customers have been concentrated among a few significant portable handset manufacturers, including Nokia Corporation, Sony Ericsson and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. We expect our customer base to include a broader range of consumer electronics manufacturers as our product mix becomes more concentrated on products other than display drivers. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred significant operating losses and negative cash flows, with net losses of $51.5 million, $30.9 million and $11.9 million, respectively. During this period our revenue decreased from $101.2 million in 2006 to $39.6 million in 2007 and $18.6 million in 2008. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $77.2 million and cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $29.4 million. In the second half of 2008, as economic conditions deteriorated, we took actions to restructure our operations and reduce our spending to bring costs more in line with expected revenues and our business strategy. We engaged financial advisors during the third quarter of 2008 and began evaluating alternatives for each of our business areas. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we ceased investment in our audio products, except as necessary to support existing customers, and implemented headcount reductions. In January 2009, we sold our display driver assets and transferred certain employees to AsTEK, Inc., a privately-held company located in Korea whose principal is the former general manager of our Korean R&D operation. The total consideration was $3.5 million in the form of a receivable due no later than January 2010 plus $0.5 million of assumed liabilities. We retained rights to most of the current display driver products in production, which we expect will continue to generate revenue through 2009, as well as ownership of our proprietary EPiC™ technology for AM-OLED displays. As a result of this transaction, we have ceased investment in the production, marketing and sale of new display driver integrated circuits. 1 Table of Contents In February 2009, we sold assets relating to a development-stage power management product. We sold these assets and transferred certain employees to a publicly-traded supplier of analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products. Under the terms of the sale, Leadis will be paid $2.3 million in cash, of which $2 million has been received to date. As a result of this action, we ceased development of power management integrated circuits. In March 2009, we sold assets related to our audio products and transferred certain employees to a publicly-traded supplier of semiconductor products. Under the terms of the sale we were paid $1.45 million in cash, all of which has been received. In addition to the sales of the display driver, power management and audio parts of our business, we have enacted salary reductions and reduced hours worked for a substantial portion of our remaining employees. The net impact of actions to date is that we have reduced our headcount by approximately 54% from the levels in the third quarter of 2008, while focusing our resources on development of capacitive touch controllers and LED drivers. We continue to invest in and develop these businesses while exploring our other options to realize maximum value from the technologies we have developed. We have continued discussions with parties that have expressed interest in acquiring other parts of our business. While we do not have any agreements relating to additional strategic activities, these discussions may lead to us selling one or more of our remaining businesses. We believe that as a result of the actions taken in the fourth quarter of 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009, our cash, cash equivalents, and short term investment balances will be sufficient to fund our operations for the next twelve months. However, we expect to incur operating losses in 2009 and expect our cash balances to decline during the year. If anticipated operating results in our touch controller, LED driver and legacy display driver businesses are not achieved, we have the intent and believe we have the ability to delay or further reduce expenditures. We may also enter into additional agreements for the sale of all or parts of our remaining business in the future. We currently have no plans to seek additional cash. However, if additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt, our stockholders will experience dilution, and such securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to current holders of common stock. If we obtain additional funds through arrangements with strategic partners, we may be required to relinquish our rights to certain technologies or products that we might otherwise seek to retain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing, or obtain it on acceptable terms. If we are unable to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to execute our business plan and we could be required to delay or reduce the scope of our operations. Our principal executive offices are located in Sunnyvale, California. Our website address is www.leadis.com. This annual report on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, are publicly available on our website without charge promptly following our filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, a copy of this annual report is available without charge on our website at www.leadis.com or upon written request to: Investor Relations, Leadis Technology, Inc., 800 W. California Avenue, Suite 200, Sunnyvale, California 94086. Industry Overview As a result of the restructuring activities taken in the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009, we have significantly reduced the scope of our operating activities. In 2009, we will focus our product development on touch controllers and LED driver products. We will also continue to sell the legacy display driver products we retained in connection with the divestment of our display driver assets. Capacitive touch technology is rapidly being integrated into the fundamental design of a variety of systems from consumer electronics, point-of-sale systems, public information displays, industrial and climate control systems, and household appliances. Touch buttons enable attractive industrial design and end-product 2 Table of Contents differentiation, while touch screens improve the user interface, allowing it to change with context and reduce the reliance on single function mechanical controls. In most capacitive touch applications, touching the sensor changes the electrical charge held in a conducting layer. In the case of touch screens, the sensor layer is transparent and typically created from indium tin oxide, or ITO. While a button interface simply has to determine whether or not a touch occurred, a touch screen controller analyzes the level and location of capacitive changes to ascertain the precise location of a touch. Devices implementing touch technology may also be designed to produce tactile feedback synchronized with a touch input, which significantly enhances the user experience. In these devices, the touch controller interprets the touch inputs and relays them to a microprocessor, which in turn generates signals to a haptics driver that powers the small motors or vibration actuators providing the tactile feedback. In some cases, the touch controller incorporates the haptics driver which decreases the number of discrete system components. Small liquid crystal displays, or LCDs, require a backlight unit to supply the light illuminating the screen, and each backlight unit requires LED drivers. A leading market research firm estimated the total 2007 market for LED drivers to be $925 million, with LED drivers for portable handset backlighting representing approximately three quarters of the LED driver market. Every portable device display needs a display driver. While advances in materials used to manufacture displays have played an important role in display innovation, display drivers are the critical semiconductor components that enable display functionality. The majority of small and medium size displays are made using thin film transistor, or TFT, technology. We believe active matrix organic light emitting diode, or AM-OLED, displays have the potential to capture a significant share of the total display driver market. While AM-OLED displays today are typically still more expensive than TFT displays, they are an attractive alternative due to their better display quality and thin form factor. We believe that our proprietary EPiC™ technology, with its ability to reduce mura defects and control image sticking by periodically recalibrating the display pixels, will be critical in improving manufacturing yields, enabling more cost-effective AM-OLED displays and improving their lifetime. The worldwide AM-OLED market is expected to grow to $4.6 billion by 2014, up from $67 million in 2007, according to a leading market research firm. As AM-OLED displays can be made in larger sizes, our EPiC™ technology is applicable beyond mobile phones to mid-size displays for digital picture frames, navigation devices, laptops and monitors. Our Businesses Touch Controller Chips. We initiated our development of touch technology IC solutions in 2007, and introduced our initial products in 2008. Touch technology is increasingly being utilized by manufacturers to create sleek, streamlined products with enhanced reliability. In consumer electronics, many of the latest and most attractive mobile phones and media players utilize capacitive touch to realize thin, attractive products differentiated from standard offerings with mechanical buttons. In the industrial and household appliances markets, touch interfaces are increasingly being implemented not only for visual appeal, but also for enhanced reliability in kitchen and laundry environments where heat, moisture, and dust present challenges for traditional input techniques. Our current portfolio consists of 11 products targeted for applications implementing capacitive touch buttons, sliders, and scroll wheels. The products are grouped into four major categories based on degree of integration. • Our LDS600x products contain only the PureTouch™ controller block and offer 6, 10, or 15 channel options. • Our LDS602x products add integrated keypad LED drivers and are offered in 6, 10, 13, and 15 channel options. • Our two LDS601x products integrate a TouchSense®—certified haptics driver and feature 15 channels, with one product optimized for mobile applications and the other for non-mobile. • Our LDS604x offerings are similar to the LDS601x products, with the addition of the same keypad LED driver functionality featured in the LDS602x line. 3 Table of Contents In January 2009, we entered into an agreement with Immersion Corporation in which we received a license to use Immersion’s TouchSense(R) Player and Haptics Effect Library which will extend to customers purchasing Leadis’ capacitive touch controllers with integrated haptics driver, enabling end-product manufacturers to quickly incorporate a standard library of tactile feedback effects for capacitive touch inputs. LED Driver Chips. During 2007, we began internal development of a portfolio of LED drivers. As of December 31, 2008, we offer 8 LED driver products for portable backlighting and flash applications such as flash or lamp LEDs in cell phone cameras. These devices are all high efficiency charge pumps that differ in the number of LEDs each can drive, the input voltages, and the current level upon each LED. In January 2009, we announced our LDS8160 featuring our proprietary in-situ Temperature Compensation engine. The LDS8160 measures the temperature of the LED directly at the diode junction without need for an external sensor and adjusts the current on each LED channel in order to optimize luminosity, color saturation, and prevent system overheating. All of our LED drivers support our PowerLite™ current regulation feature which enable a device to stay in the charge pump’s highest efficiency mode for a longer time and reduces power consumption. Display Driver Chips. Our core business through 2008 was the development and sale of integrated single chip mixed signal display drivers for small panel displays. Sales of display drivers accounted for 98% of our revenue in 2008. In January 2009, we sold our display driver business to AsTEK, Inc., a privately-held company located in Korea. As a result of this transaction, we will continue to fulfill orders for certain existing display driver products into customer programs already established, but will cease investment in the production, marketing and sale of new display driver integrated circuits. We have also licensed our proprietary EPiC™ technology for AM-OLED displays to ASTEK, Inc. Audio Chips. We are no longer manufacturing our portable audio products. The volumes sold in 2008 were insignificant and in March 2009 we sold assets related to our audio products and transferred certain employees to a publicly-traded supplier of semiconductor products. Power Management Chips. We are manufacturing and selling a modest amount of power management devices such as LDO regulators, shunt references and thermal switches. The volumes sold in 2008 were insignificant and we have ceased development of new power management devices. Product Strategy Our product strategy for 2009 is as follows: First, we will focus our internal engineering development to produce high quality, cost effective touch controllers and LED drivers. We believe that our proprietary technology in these areas significantly differentiates our products from others in the market and affords potential customers real benefits in terms of lower overall product cost, power consumption and improved end user experience. Second, we will leverage strategic partnerships to field complete product solutions. For example, our touch controller solutions are significantly enriched by the inclusion of drivers using Immersion Corporation’s industry-leading haptics technology. In February 2009, we announced that our proprietary LED-Sense™ Temperature Sensing and Compensation Engine, implemented in the LDS8160, is now available for licensing to third parties as an embedded, stand-alone IP block. Regardless of the application, a critical factor to the adoption of LEDs is their reliability, which can degrade with self-heating. Preventing excessive heating on the device is one of the most significant challenges system designers face today. This is especially the case for High Brightness LEDs in automotive and general illumination. Sales and Marketing Historically, our display driver products were sold to manufacturers of small panel displays for portable handsets. Our LED products and touch controller products may be sold to a variety of manufacturers for use in consumer electronics, household appliances, and industrial or climate control systems. We focus our sales and marketing strategy on establishing business and technology relationships with manufacturers to allow us to work 4 Table of Contents closely with them on future solutions that align with their product roadmaps. Our design engineers collaborate with customer design engineers to create solutions that comply with the specifications of the manufacturers and provide a high level of performance at competitive prices. To date, we have sold our products through our direct sales force and sales representative firms with staff located in Asia and Europe. We also market and sell through independent distributors in China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. We employ field application engineers to provide technical support and assistance to potential and existing customers in designing, testing and qualifying electronic designs that incorporate our products. Customers In 2008, our two largest customers, Samsung SDI Corporation and Rikei Corporation, a sales distributor in Japan, accounted for approximately 24% and 38% of our revenue, respectively. Sales to customers located in China and Japan represented approximately 40% and 38% of our total sales in 2008, respectively. However, our product mix by geography will vary depending on changes in sales and design wins by customer, and the customer base for our touch controllers and LED driver products may be substantially different than our historical customer base for display drivers. Please refer to Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report for additional information regarding revenue by geographic region. Seasonality Our current sales are made into the consumer electronic products market. Due to the seasonality in this market, we typically expect to see stronger revenue growth in the second half of the calendar year than in the first half of the year. In addition to the seasonality, the portable handset market is also characterized by intense competition among a concentrated group of manufacturers, rapidly evolving technology and changing consumer preferences. These factors result in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, continually evolving portable handset specifications and significant price competition. As our product portfolio mix shifts to LED drivers and touch controllers, we may experience demand trends that overshadow our prior seasonal revenue patterns. In addition, in the past, consumer electronics manufacturers have inaccurately forecasted consumer demand, which has led to significant changes in orders to their component suppliers. We have experienced both increases and decreases to orders within the same quarter and with limited advance notice. We expect such increases and decreases of orders to continue to occur in the future. Manufacturing We outsource the manufacturing, assembly and testing of our products to third parties. Our foundry suppliers fabricate our display driver products using a customized, high-voltage version of their mature and stable CMOS process technology with feature sizes of 0.15 micron and higher. Our LED and touch controller products are fabricated on mature CMOS processes. Our principal foundry suppliers are Seiko Epson in Japan, and Vanguard International Semiconductor Corporation, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation and United Microelectronics Corporation in Taiwan, but we may use other foundry suppliers in the future. Our fabless manufacturing model significantly reduces our capital requirements and allows us to focus our resources on the design, development and marketing of our products. In addition, we benefit from our suppliers’ manufacturing expertise, and from the flexibility to select those vendors that we believe offer the best capability and value. To the extent our foundry suppliers experience poor yield rates or tightened capacity conditions, we may be unable to meet our customers’ demand requirements and our business may be harmed. Following wafer fabrication processing, our wafers are shipped from the foundries to assembly and testing contractors, where they are electrically tested and assembled onto plastic packages for certain devices. We 5 Table of Contents develop and control all product test programs used by our subcontractors. These test programs are developed based on product specifications, thereby maintaining our control over the performance of our devices. We currently rely primarily on Chipbond Technology Corporation, International Semiconductor Technology Ltd. and King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd., each located in Taiwan, and Unisem Group in Malaysia, to assemble and test our products. As our product portfolio expands, we may use additional assembly and testing contractors. To the extent these contractors experience heightened demand for their services, we may be unable to secure sufficient testing and assembly capacity to meet our customers’ product demand requirements. While our testing contractors currently ship our products directly to our customers, we may in the future ship products to customers out of our own facility. Inventory We manage inventories by forecasting product-by-product demand based upon our industry experience and communications with our customers. We place manufacturing orders for our products that are based on this forecasted demand. The quantity of products actually purchased by our customers as well as shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers’ requirements and in manufacturing availability. Depending upon the level of demand for our products and demand for products incorporating our devices, we may maintain substantial inventories of our products in order to be able to meet demand on a timely basis. In addition, any cancellation, modification or delay in shipments in the future may impact our inventory levels, and could cause us to create provisions for excess and obsolete inventory. Research and Development We conduct our design and development activities in Korea and the United States. We believe that our continued commitment to research and development and timely introduction of new and enhanced products is integral to maintaining the value of the company, but we determined in 2008 that we needed to reduce our research and development investments to focus on a narrow range of opportunities. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we ceased investment in our audio products. In January 2009, we sold our display driver assets and transferred certain employees to AsTEK, Inc., a privately-held company located in Korea. In February 2009, we sold assets relating to a development-stage power management product. In March 2009, we sold assets related to our audio products and transferred certain employees to a publicly-traded supplier of semiconductor products. We continue to explore numerous alternatives to optimize value from our research and development efforts to date. Our total expenditures for research and development were $21.6 million for 2008, $18.6 million for 2007, and $13.8 million for 2006. As a result of our restructuring and adoption of a new business strategy, we expect our 2009 research and development spending will be substantially below the 2008 levels. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to realize value for our shareholders will depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret laws, contractual provisions, and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We also attempt to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information through agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants. As of March 15, 2009, we had twenty U.S patents applications pending and had been issued nine U.S. patents. These patent applications and issued patents cover our intellectual property contained in our LED drivers, power management and touch technology products. In January 2009, we sold our display driver business including a number of relevant patents. In February 2009, we sold assets relating to a development-stage power management product, including one issued patent. In March 2009, we sold assets related to our audio products, including a number of patents and pending patents. We expect to file additional patent applications covering our intellectual property, and we may sell additional patents as part of future sales of all or any parts of our business. We cannot assure you that any patents will be issued to us as a result of our pending or future applications or that any patent issued will provide substantive protection for the technology or product covered by it. 6 Table of Contents While we intend to protect our intellectual property rights vigorously, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful. Despite our precautions, a third party may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, technology or processes without authorization, or may independently develop similar technology. In addition, effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that the measures we have implemented to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property will be successful. Competition The markets for semiconductors generally, and portable electronics integrated circuits in particular, are intensely competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include cost, design times, operating performance, level of integration, design customization, manufacturing expertise and quality. We believe our solutions compete favorably across these factors. However, many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, complementary product offerings, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. We anticipate that the market for our products will be subject to rapid technological change. Competitors for our LED drivers include Advanced Analogic Technologies, Inc., Linear Technology Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Micrel Incorporated, National Semiconductor Corporation, RichTech Co., Ltd., and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Competitors for our touch products include Atmel Corporation, Cypress Semiconductor and Synaptics Incorporated. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had 161 employees, including 100 in research and development, 23 in operations and 38 in sales, marketing, general and administrative functions. By region, 59 of our employees were located in the United States, 69 in Korea and 33 in Asia and Europe. At the end of 2007, we had 184 employees. Through sales of portions of our business and related transfers of headcount, as well as staff reductions enacted to reduce operating expenses, our headcount declined to 89 as of March 14, 2009. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe we have good relations with our employees. Financial Information by Geographic Location We operate as a single industry segment: the design, development and marketing of mixed-signal semiconductors that enable and enhance the features and capabilities of portable consumer electronic products. We currently generate substantially all of our revenue from customers in Asia and Japan. Related information is included in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K in evaluating our company and our business. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be impaired. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our business strategy is currently going through significant evaluation and change. We announced in October 2008 that our business strategy was going through a transition. Rather than continuing to pursue a broad range of analog semiconductor products for portable electronic devices, we are 7 Table of Contents significantly reducing the scope of our operating activities. In January 2009, we sold our display driver assets and transferred certain employees to AsTEK, Inc., a privately-held company located in Korea whose principal is the former general manager of our Korean R&D operation. The total consideration was $3.5 million in the form of a receivable due no later than January 2010 plus $0.5 million of assumed liabilities. We retained rights to most of the current display driver products in production, which we expect will continue to generate revenue through 2009, as well as ownership of our proprietary EPiC™ technology for AM-OLED displays. In February 2009, we sold assets relating to a development-stage power management product. In March 2009, we sold the assets relating to our portable audio products. As a result of these transactions, we have reduced our headcount by approximately 54% from the level at the end of the third quarter of 2008, and we are focusing our operating activities on our touch controllers and LED drivers. We also expect to generate revenue from the sale of our legacy display driver products. This transition and our current plan may fail to stop our operating losses. As part of this transition, we may not be able to make our LED driver and touch controller businesses profitable and therefore may exit them. We may not be able to identify, acquire, or transition to new lines of business that may be profitable, and we may not have enough resources to transition to certain alternative lines of business. We are also evaluating alternatives to maximize shareholder value including the potential sale of all or parts of the remaining business. If our new business strategy is unsuccessful, it will significantly harm our business and operating results. In the second half of 2008, as economic conditions deteriorated, we took actions to restructure our operations and reduce our spending to bring costs more in line with expected revenues and our business strategy. We engaged financial advisors during the third quarter of 2008 and began evaluating alternatives for each of our business areas. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we ceased investment in our audio products and implemented headcount reductions. As a result of this restructuring, we are focusing our operating activities on touch controllers and LED drivers. In the short term, we also will generate revenue from the sale of our legacy display driver products. The sale of our display driver and audio businesses has reduced the scale of our business and income stream, resulting in our greater reliance on our touch controller and LED driver products. If the market demand for our LED driver or our touch controller product offerings is smaller than we anticipated, our results of operations and business would be adversely affected. In addition, if there is a delay in bringing our new products to market, it would delay our ability to derive revenues from such products and our business and operating results could be significantly harmed. We have incurred losses in prior periods and will incur losses in the future, which will reduce our cash flows and could harm our financial condition. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred significant operating losses and negative cash flows, with net losses of $51.5 million, $30.9 million and $11.9 million, respectively. During this period our revenue decreased from $101.2 million in 2006 to $39.6 million in 2007 and $18.6 million in 2008. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $77.2 million and cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $29.4 million. The loss in 2008 includes a $9.5 million non-cash impairment charge of our goodwill and other intangible assets. Although we have taken steps to significantly reduce our operating expenses, our ability to return to or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future depends in part on our ability to develop new touch controller and LED driver products that gain market acceptance, and our ability to manage expenses. We may not generate sufficient revenue from these products and we may not again achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we fail to return to profitability, the continued operating losses will reduce our cash flows and negatively harm our business and financial condition. We may need to raise additional capital, which might not be available or which, if available, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. We believe that as a result of our actions taken in the fourth quarter of 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009, our cash, cash equivalents, and short term investment balances will be sufficient to fund our operations for the 8 Table of Contents next twelve months. However, we expect to incur operating losses in 2009 and expect our cash balances to decline during the year. If anticipated operating results in our touch controller, LED driver and legacy display driver businesses are not achieved, we may have to delay or further reduce expenditures. We may also enter into additional agreements for the sale of all or parts of our remaining business in the future. If additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt, our stockholders will experience dilution, and such securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to current holders of common stock. If we obtain additional funds through arrangements with strategic partners, we may be required to relinquish our rights to certain technologies or products that we might otherwise seek to retain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing, or obtain it on acceptable terms. If we are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to execute our business plan and we could be required to delay or reduce the scope of our operations. Recent deterioration of worldwide economic conditions may affect our financial performance and our ability to forecast our business. Our operations and performance depend on worldwide economic conditions and its impact on purchases of our products by our customers. Economic conditions have deteriorated significantly in recent months in many countries and regions, including the United States, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. As a result, our customers may experience unexpected fluctuations in demand for their products, as consumers alter their purchasing activities in response to this economic uncertainty, and our customers may change or scale back their product development efforts, component purchases or other activities that affect purchases of our products. This uncertainty may affect our ability to provide or meet specific forecasted results, as we attempt to address this increased volatility in our business. If we are unable to adequately respond to unforeseeable changes in demand resulting from general economic conditions, our operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to timely develop new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop touch controller and LED driver products that achieve timely and cost-effective market acceptance. The development of our products is highly complex, and we have experienced, and in the future may experience, delays in the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that a manufacturer will select our product for design into its own product. Once a customer designs a competitor’s product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers typically involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Successful product development and market acceptance of our products depend on a number of factors, including: • accurate prediction of changing requirements of customers within the portable device and consumer electronics markets; • timely completion and introduction of new designs; • timely qualification and certification of our products for use in our customers’ products; • the prices at which we are able to offer our products; • quality, performance, power use and size of our products as compared to competing products and technologies; • commercial acceptance and commercial production of the devices into which our products are incorporated; • achievement of acceptable manufacturing yields; 9 Table of Contents • interoperability of our products with other system components; • successful development of our relationships with existing and potential customers; • our ability to retain, train and manage new suppliers and sales representatives and distributors; and • changes in technology, industry standards or end-user preferences. We cannot assure you that products we recently developed, or products we may develop in the future, will achieve market acceptance. If our customers notify us that they have incorporated our products into their products in the design phase, we describe this event as a design win. Even if we achieve design wins for our products, these design wins may not generate significant, or any revenue. Design wins for our LED driver products have not yet generated significant revenue. We recently received our first design wins for our touch controller products, but it is unclear at this time how much revenue will be generated from these design wins. If our LED driver and touch controller products fail to achieve design wins, the design wins do not generate significant revenue, or if we fail to develop new products that achieve market acceptance, our growth prospects, operating results and competitive position will be adversely affected. Not all new design wins ramp into production, and even if ramped into production, the timing of such production may not occur as we or our customers had estimated or the volumes derived from such projects may not be as significant as we had estimated, which could have a substantial negative impact on our anticipated revenues and financial condition. Once our touch controller and LED driver products have achieved a design win, it typically takes 3 to 9 months to actually ramp into commercial production. The value of any design win depends in large part upon the ultimate success of our customer’s product in its market. Not all design wins ramp into production and, even if a design win ramps into production, the volumes derived from such projects may be less than we had originally estimated due to lower than anticipated acceptance of our customer’s product by the market. Our failure to obtain sufficient design wins for touch controller and LED driver products, or the failure of designs we win to generate sufficient revenues, will have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We depend on a small number of key customers for substantially all of our revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any key customer would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our operating results. For the next several quarters, our primary source of revenue will continue to come from the sale of our legacy display drivers to display module manufacturers serving the portable handset market. Historically, substantially all of our revenue has been generated from sales to a very small number of display module manufacturer customers. The loss of, or a reduction in purchases by, any of our key customers would likely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we focus our business on touch controller and LED driver products, we will need to achieve design wins at new customers to whom we have not previously sold products. Our inability to achieve a sufficient number of design wins with new customers will significantly harm our financial position. Consolidation in our customers’ industries may result in increased customer concentration and the potential loss of customers. In addition, some of our customers may have efforts underway to actively consolidate their supply chain, which could reduce their purchases of our products. We are dependent on sales of a small number of products, and the absence of continued market acceptance of these products could harm our business. Historically, we have derived all of our revenue from a limited number of display driver products and, despite our recent restructuring, we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenue from these products in the near term. As a result, in the short term, a decline in market demand for one or more of our current display driver products could result in a significant decline in revenue and reduced operating results. As 10 Table of Contents part of our restructuring, we are focusing our operating activities on the development of new touch controller and LED driver products. Until we have broadened our portfolio of these products, we will continue to be dependent on sales from a small number of products for substantially all of our revenue. Market acceptance of these new products is critical to our long-term success. The average selling prices of our products tend to decline over time, often rapidly, and if we are unable to develop successful new products in a timely manner, our operating results will be harmed. The portable electronic device market, and in particular the portable handset market, is extremely cost sensitive, which has resulted, and may continue to result, in declining average selling prices of portable handset components. The products we develop and sell are used for high volume applications and the average selling prices tend to decline, often rapidly, over the life of the product. We may reduce the average unit price of our products in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. To maintain acceptable operating results, we will need to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continue to reduce our production costs. If we are unable to offset reductions in our average selling prices by timely introducing new products at higher average prices or reducing our production costs, our operating results will suffer. If we are unable to comply with evolving customer specifications and requirements, customers may choose other products instead of our own. Our touch controller and LED driver products must satisfy certain performance specifications of portable handset or electronic device manufacturers. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to comply with these specifications. We must continue to incorporate additional features and advanced technology into our products to be successful. In addition, as we seek to add new customers, we will need to comply with new and different specifications and quality standards. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing specifications for a significant period of time, we could miss opportunities to have customers choose our products over those of our competitors early in the customer’s design process. Loss of design wins could harm our business by making it more difficult to obtain future design wins with the manufacturer. We may not be successful in developing new products or product enhancements that achieve market acceptance. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances requires substantial time and expense and may not be successful, which would harm our competitive position. Our business is highly dependent on the consumer electronics market, which is highly concentrated and characterized by significant price competition, short product life cycles, fluctuations in demand, and seasonality, any of which could negatively impact our business or results of operations. Nearly all of our revenue to date has been generated from sales of display drivers for use in portable handsets. We anticipate that a significant portion of sales of our touch controllers and LED drivers will be for use in portable handsets or other consumer electronic devices. These markets are characterized by intense competition among a concentrated group of manufacturers, rapidly evolving technology, and changing consumer preferences. These factors result in the frequent introduction of new products, significant price competition, short product life cycles, and continually evolving product specifications. If we, our customers or consumer electronic device manufacturers are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Our business is also dependent on the broad commercial acceptance of the consumer electronic devices into which our products are incorporated. Even though we may achieve design wins, if the consumer electronic device incorporating our products do not achieve significant customer acceptance, our revenue will be adversely affected. We expect our business to be subject to seasonality and varying order patterns in the consumer electronic device market. Demand is typically stronger in this market in the second half of the year than the first half of the 11 Table of Contents year. However, in the past consumer electronic device manufacturers inaccurately forecasted consumer demand, which led to significant changes in orders to their component suppliers. We have experienced both increases and decreases in orders within the same quarter and with limited advance notice, and we expect such increases and decreases to occur in the future. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. If we, or our customers, are unable to increase production of new or existing products to meet any increases in demand due to seasonality or other factors, our revenue from such products would be adversely affected and this may damage our reputation. Conversely, if our customers overestimate consumer demand, they may reduce their orders or delay shipments of our products from amounts forecasted, and our revenue in a particular period could be adversely affected. Our products are complex and may require modifications to resolve undetected errors or failures, which could lead to an increase in our costs, a loss of customers or a delay in market acceptance of our products. Our products are highly complex and have contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new revisions are released. If we deliver products with errors or defects, we may incur additional development, repair or replacement costs, our margin rates will suffer, and our credibility and the market acceptance of our products could be harmed. Defects in our products could also lead to liability as a result of lawsuits against us or our customers. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our products. A successful product liability claim could require us to make significant damage payments. Our products must interoperate with the components supplied to our customers by other suppliers. Our touch controller and LED driver products comprise only part of complex electronics systems manufactured by our customers. As a result, these products must operate according to specifications with the other components in the system. Our touch controller products must often interoperate with a third party microprocessor. If other components of the electronic system fail to operate efficiently with our products, we may be required to incur additional development time and costs optimizing the interoperability of our products with the other components. Additionally, if other components of the system contain errors or defects that cannot be corrected in a timely fashion, the customer may delay or cancel production of its system, adversely impacting our sales. Failure to transition to new manufacturing process technologies could adversely affect our operating results and gross margin. To remain competitive, we strive to manufacture our drivers using increasingly smaller geometries and higher levels of design integration. Our strategy is to utilize the most advanced manufacturing process technology appropriate for our products and available from our third-party foundry contractors. Use of advanced processes may have greater risk of initial yield problems and higher production costs. Manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development. In the past, we have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. Moreover, we are dependent on our relationships with our third-party manufacturers to successfully migrate to smaller geometry processes. The inability by us or our third-party manufacturers to effectively and efficiently transition to new manufacturing process technologies may adversely affect our gross margin and our operating results. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan our expenses. We were formed in May 2000 and had our initial meaningful shipments of display driver products in the third quarter of 2002. As a result, we have limited historical financial data from which to predict our future 12 Table of Contents revenue and expenses. We have not yet had meaningful shipments of our touch controller or LED driver products. The rapidly evolving nature of the consumer electronic device markets and other factors that are beyond our control also limit our ability to accurately forecast revenue and expenses. Because most of our expenses are fixed in the short term or incurred in advance of anticipated revenue, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall in revenue. Our revenue has fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year, so you should not rely on the results of any past periods as an indication of future revenue performance or growth. In the past, we have experienced significant revenue fluctuation from quarter to quarter and year to year. While our revenue increased 58% in 2006 compared to 2005, we experienced a 61% decline in revenue in 2007 compared to 2006, and our revenue for 2008 decreased 53% compared to 2007. We also sold off significant parts of our business in the first quarter of 2009. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior periods as an indication of our future revenue growth or financial results. Our quarterly financial results fluctuate, which leads to volatility in our stock price. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to do so in the future. As a result, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our revenue and operating results could negatively affect the trading price of our stock. In addition, our revenue and results of operations may, in the future, be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Factors that are likely to cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate include the risk factors discussed throughout this section. If we fail to accurately forecast customer demand, we may have excess or insufficient inventory, which may increase our operating costs and harm our business. We will sell our touch controller and LED driver products to manufacturers of consumer electronics devices. We sell our display drivers to display module manufacturers who integrate our drivers into the displays that they supply to handset manufacturers. We have limited visibility as to the volume of our products that our customers are selling to their customers or carrying in their inventory. If our customers have excess inventory or experience a slowing of products sold through to their end customers, it would likely result in a slowdown in orders from our customers and adversely impact our future sales. Moreover, to ensure availability of our products for our customers, in some cases we start the manufacturing of our products based on forecasts provided by these customers in advance of receiving purchase orders. However, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments, and we do not recognize revenue from these products until they are shipped to the customer. As a result, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated revenue. If we overestimate customer demand for our products or if purchase orders are cancelled or shipments delayed by our customers, we may end up with excess inventory that we cannot sell, which would harm our financial results. For example, in 2008, we recorded charges of $5.9 million to write down excess inventory. During 2008, we experienced a sharp drop in demand for two display driver products that had been our largest volume programs. We deliberately built ahead of demand in one program to take advantage of favorable supplier pricing. These products represent approximately 77% of our inventory carrying value as of December 31, 2008. While we expect this increased inventory to be sold in subsequent quarters, we cannot assure you that the inventory will sell, nor that it will sell at prices in excess of our manufacturing costs, and this may result in future inventory provisions. This inventory risk is exacerbated because many of our display driver products are customized, which hampers our ability to sell any excess inventory to the general market. Our customer orders are subject to cancellation, reduction or delay in delivery schedules, which may result in lower than anticipated revenue. Our sales are generally made pursuant to standard purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. These purchase orders may be cancelled or modified or the shipment dates delayed by the 13 Table of Contents customer. We have in the past experienced, and may, in the future, experience delays in scheduled shipment dates, which have on occasion resulted, and may in the future result, in our recognizing revenue in a later period than anticipated. We have also experienced reductions to previously placed purchase orders. Any cancellation, modification or delay in shipments in the future may result in lower than anticipated revenue. We face significant competition and may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological changes, rapid price reductions and short product life cycles. Competition typically occurs at the design stage, when customers evaluate alternative design approaches requiring integrated circuits. Because of short product life cycles, there are frequent design win competitions for next-generation systems. Increased competition may result in price pressure, reduced profitability and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our revenue and operating results. Competitors for our touch controller products include Atmel Corporation, Cypress Semiconductor and Synaptics Incorporated. Competitors for our LED driver products include Advanced Analogic Technologies, Inc., Linear Technology Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Micrel Incorporated, National Semiconductor Corporation, RichTech Co., Ltd., and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Competitors for our legacy display driver products include Himax Technologies, Ltd., MagnaChip Semiconductor Ltd., Novatek Microelectronics Corp., Ltd., Renesas Technology Corp., Sitronix Technology Corporation, and Solomon Systech Limited. Additionally, many portable device display module manufacturers are affiliated with vertically integrated electronics companies. Some of these companies also have semiconductor design and manufacturing resources for developing display drivers. Captive semiconductor suppliers with which we may compete include semiconductor divisions of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, Sharp Electronics Corporation and Toshiba Corporation. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, complementary product offerings, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. In addition, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to obtain wafer fabrication capacity when we are unable to do so. Any of these factors could cause us to be at a competitive disadvantage to our existing and potential new competitors. We rely on a limited number of independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our chipsets and on third-party logistics providers to ship products to our customers. The failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. As a fabless semiconductor company, we do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have limited in-house testing facilities. As a result, we rely on third-party vendors to manufacture, assemble and test the products that we design. Our principal foundry partners are Seiko Epson in Japan, and Vanguard International Semiconductor Corporation, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation and United Microelectronics Corporation in Taiwan. We currently rely primarily on Chipbond Technology Corporation, International Semiconductor Technology Ltd. and King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd., each located in Taiwan, and Unisem Group in Malaysia, to assemble and test our products. If our current or future vendors do not provide us with high-quality products, services and/or production and test capacity in a timely manner, or if the relationship with one or more of these vendors is terminated, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacements and/or we may be unable to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, our relationships with our customers could suffer, our sales could decrease and our growth could be limited. 14 Table of Contents We face risks associated with relying on third-party vendors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products. We rely, in whole or in part, upon independent vendors to manufacture, assemble and test our products. We face significant risks associated with relying on third-party vendors, including: • reduced ability to increase production and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis; • reduced control over delivery schedules and product quality; • limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; • limited ability to obtain insurance coverage for business interruptions related to contractors; • increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; • shortages of materials that foundries use to manufacture our products; • labor shortages or labor strikes; • political instability in countries where contractors are located; and • actions taken by our subcontractors that breach our agreements. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party manufacturing vendors and they may allocate capacity to other customers and may not allocate sufficient capacity to us to meet future demands for our products. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our third-party contractors. As a result, none of our third-party contractors is obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Moreover, none of our third-party foundry or assembly and test vendors has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demand for our products. We provide our foundry contractors with monthly rolling forecasts of our production requirements; however, the ability of each foundry to provide wafers to us is limited by the foundry’s available capacity. Our foundry contractors use raw materials in the manufacture of wafers used to manufacture our products. To the extent our foundry contractors experience shortages of these wafers, we may be unable to obtain capacity as required. In addition, the price of our wafers will fluctuate based on changes in available industry capacity. Our foundry, assembly and test contractors may allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice or increasing the prices they charge us. These foundry, assembly and test contractors may reallocate capacity to other customers that are larger and better financed than us or that have long-term agreements or relationships with these foundries or assembly and test contractors, which would decrease the capacity available to us. Moreover, to the extent we decide to, or are required to, change contractors we will face risks associated with establishing new business relationships and capacity. To secure manufacturing capacity at our foundry, assembly and test suppliers we may be required to make substantial purchase commitments or prepayments in future periods or enter into agreements that commit us to purchase minimum quantities in order to secure capacity or to achieve favorable prices. While we currently do not have plans for long-term agreements with any of our suppliers, we may enter into such agreements in the future, which could reduce our cash flow and subject us to risks of excess inventory or service costs. Failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for existing and/or new products would reduce our gross margin and could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We have experienced, and may again experience, manufacturing yields that were less than we had anticipated. Semiconductor manufacturing yields are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which is typically developed by our third-party foundries. As low manufacturing yields may result from either design or process technology failures, yield problems may not be effectively 15 Table of Contents determined or resolved until an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested to identify sensitivities relating to the design processes used. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well after the production process has begun. Any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our manufacturing costs and decrease our ability to fulfill customer orders in a timely fashion. This could potentially have a negative impact on our revenue, our gross margin, our gross profit, and our customer relationships. The manufacturing yields for new products tend to be lower initially and increase as we achieve full production. In many cases, these shorter manufacturing periods will not reach the longer, higher volume manufacturing periods conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. We also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. A significant number of product returns due to a defect or recall could damage our reputation and result in our customers working with our competitors. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, and our operating results may be negatively impacted by downturns in the general semiconductor industry. Our business is impacted by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies and their customers and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns could significantly harm our sales, reduce our profitability or result in losses for a prolonged period of time. From time to time, the semiconductor industry also has experienced periods of increased demand and production capacity constraints. We may experience substantial changes in future operating results due to general semiconductor industry conditions, general economic conditions and other factors. Any disruption to our operations or the operations of our foundry, assembly and test contractors resulting from earthquakes or other natural disasters could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products. Our corporate headquarters are located in California. In addition, a substantial portion of our engineering operations and the third-party contractors that manufacture, assemble and test our products are located in the Pacific Rim. The risk of losses due to an earthquake in California and the Pacific Rim is significant due to the proximity to major earthquake fault lines. The occurrence of earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in disruption of our operations and the operations of our foundry, assembly and test contractors. We rely on our key personnel to manage our business, and to develop products, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to retain the services of our skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel, and to develop their successors and effectively managing the transition of key roles when they occur. Beginning in the second half of 2008, we began to restructure our operating activities, and have completed the sale of assets related to our display driver, audio and power management products. As part of the sale of these assets, we have also implemented headcount reductions and other operating expense reductions. It may become more difficult for us to retain executives and other key employees as we go through this restructuring process. In addition, a substantial majority of stock options held by our executives and key employees had exercise prices above the closing price of our common stock on February 28, 2009. If we lose any of our key technical or senior management personnel, or are unable to fill key positions, our business could be harmed. There are a limited number of qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacture, and sale of analog integrated circuits, and we may face challenges hiring and retaining these types of employees. Our ability to expand our operations to meet corporate growth objectives depends upon our ability to hire and retain additional senior management personnel and qualified technical personnel. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain, copy or use information that we regard as proprietary, such as product design and manufacturing process expertise. Our pending patent applications and any future applications may not result in issued patents and any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Moreover, policing any unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the measures we have implemented will prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. The enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. Assertions by third parties of infringement by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and cause our operating results to suffer. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. Although we are not currently a party to legal action alleging our infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, in the future we may receive letters from various industry participants alleging infringement of patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights. Any lawsuits resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products or using technology that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • pay damages to the party claiming infringement; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. In the future, the outcome of a dispute may be that we would need to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. We may also initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. We have agreed to indemnify certain customers for certain claims of infringement arising out of the sale of our products. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers or others. We have significant international activities and customers, and plan to continue such efforts, which subjects us to additional business risks including increased logistical complexity, political instability and currency fluctuations. We are incorporated and headquartered in the United States, and we have international subsidiaries in the Cayman Islands, Hong Kong and Japan. We have engineering personnel in Korea and marketing and/or operations personnel in China, Hong Kong, Japan, and Taiwan. Substantially all of our revenue to date has been attributable to customers located outside of the United States. We anticipate that all or substantially all of our revenue will continue to be represented by sales to customers in Asia. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; • protectionist and other foreign laws and business practices that favor local competition in some countries; 17 Table of Contents • difficulties in managing foreign operations, including cultural differences; • difficulty in hiring qualified management, technical sales and applications engineers; • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • inadequate local infrastructure; • multiple, conflicting and changing laws, regulations, export and import restrictions, and tax schemes; • potentially longer and more difficult collection periods and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • political and economic instability. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future sales and operations and, consequently, results of operations and financial condition. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable domestic and international tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could result in significant charges against income and the deferral of revenue recognition from sales to affected customers, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers’ businesses and to downturns in the economy and the industry. In addition, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable or the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As we seek to expand our customer base, it is possible that new customers may expose us to greater credit risk than our existing customers. Accounts receivable owed by foreign customers may be difficult to collect. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required and we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, which could adversely affect our operating results. We may have to record additional allowances or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions in the future, which could negatively impact our financial results. Funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible for in excess of twelve months. Our available for sale securities as of December 31, 2008 include $1.6 million at fair value of auction rate securities (ARS) that are securitized packages of government guaranteed student loans. Since February 2008, our ARS have repeatedly failed to auction successfully due to market supply consistently exceeding market demand. In accordance with the terms of the notes, in the event of a failed auction, the notes continue to bear interest at a predetermined maximum rate based on the credit rating of notes as determined by one or more nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. To date we have collected all interest payable on all of our auction-rate securities when due and expect to continue to do so in the future. The principal associated with failed 18 Table of Contents auctions will not be accessible until successful auctions occur, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, the issuers establish a different form of financing to replace these securities, issuers repay principal over time from cash flows prior to final maturity, or final payments come due according to contractual maturities ranging from 22 to 26 years. As a result, we have classified all ARS as long-term investments in the consolidated balance sheets. We understand that issuers and financial underwriters are working on alternatives that may improve liquidity of student loan auction rate securities, although it is not yet clear when or if such efforts will be successful. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we determined that we no longer had the ability to hold these instruments to maturity, and therefore we recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of $1.1 million relating to our ARS portfolio, which is recorded in “Interest and other income, net” on the consolidated statement of operations. We may not maintain Nasdaq listing requirements, which would adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock. To maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market (Nasdaq), we are required to meet certain listing requirements, including a minimum bid price of $1 per share. Our common stock has traded below the $1 minimum bid price every trading day since September 10, 2008. Under normal circumstances, companies traded on Nasdaq would receive a deficiency notice from Nasdaq if their common stock has traded below the $1 minimum bid price for 30 consecutive business days. Due to market conditions, however, on October 16, 2008 Nasdaq announced a suspension of the enforcement of rules requiring a minimum $1 closing bid price, with the suspension to remain in place until Friday, January 16, 2009. Nasdaq has subsequently announced an extension of this suspension until July 20, 2009. If our common stock continues to trade below the $1 minimum bid price for 30 consecutive business days following the end of Nasdaq’s enforcement suspension, we would likely receive a deficiency notice. Following receipt of a deficiency notice, we expect we would have 180 days to “cure” the deficiency by having our common stock trade over $1 minimum bid price for at least a 10-day period. If we were to fail to meet the minimum bid price for at least 10 consecutive days during the grace period, our common stock could be delisted. Even if we are able to comply with the minimum bid requirement, there is no assurance that in the future we will continue to satisfy Nasdaq listing requirements, with the result that our common stock may be delisted. Should our common stock be delisted from Nasdaq, and the delisting determination was based solely on non-compliance with the $1 minimum bid price, we may consider applying to transfer our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market provided that we satisfy all criteria for initial inclusion on such market other than the minimum bid price rule. In the event of such a transfer, the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules provide that we would have an additional 180 calendar days to comply with the minimum bid price rule while on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If our stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market and the Nasdaq Capital Market, it would likely be more difficult to trade in or obtain accurate quotations as to the market price of our common stock. Delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect the market price and market liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise necessary capital. Our stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors and significant costs related to litigation. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile. Between December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, our common stock traded between $2.86 per share and $0.29 per share. This volatility could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly variations in revenue or operating results; • failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our financial performance; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of new product and service offerings, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic relationships; 19 Table of Contents • publicity about our company or our products or our competitors; • announcements by manufacturers of consumer electronics or portable handsets; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors’ operating results or changes in their growth rates; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the trading volume of our common stock; • any future sales of our common stock or other securities; and • stock market price and volume fluctuations of publicly-traded companies in general and semiconductor companies in particular. Investors may be unable to resell their shares of our common stock at or above their purchase price. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities, such as the lawsuit filed against us in March 2005. This securities litigation, and any other such litigation, may result in significant costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. We currently are, and in the future may be, subject to securities class action lawsuits that could cause harm to our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are at risk of being subject to securities class action lawsuits if our stock price declines substantially. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. For example, on March 2, 2005, a securities class action suit was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against us, certain of our officers and our directors. The complaint alleges the defendants violated the Securities Act of 1933 by making allegedly false and misleading statements in the registration statement and prospectus filed on June 16, 2004 for our initial public offering. A similar additional action was filed on March 11, 2005 and the court consolidated the two actions. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the parties to this litigation reached a tentative settlement of all claims. The District Court preliminarily approved the settlement in February 2009, and we anticipate that the District Court will provide final approval of the settlement in the second quarter of 2009. This securities litigation, and any other such litigation, may result in significant costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business, operating results and cash flows. Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may influence actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. We believe that our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 42% of our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2009. As a result, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations and divestitures. This concentration of beneficial ownership could be disadvantageous to other stockholders whose interests are different from those of our executive officers, directors, and 5% shareholders. For example, our executive officers and directors, acting together with a few stockholders owning a relatively small percentage of our outstanding stock, could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger even if the transaction would benefit other stockholders. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards 20 Table of Contents Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, on January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-based Payment,” which requires that we record compensation expense in our statement of operations for stock-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. The adoption of this new standard had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our reported earnings, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of stock-based payments. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of SFAS No. 123(R) in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under SFAS No. 123(R) may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period, which could negatively affect our stock price. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, our ability to provide accurate financial statements could be impaired and any failure to maintain our internal controls and provide accurate financial statements could cause our stock price to decrease substantially. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on for the fiscal year 2008 the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial expense and to devote significant management resources to Section 404 compliance. The Section 404 compliance costs are relatively fixed, therefore compliance costs increase as a percentage of revenue with declines in revenue such as those we experienced during 2007. If in the future our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions of our company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay transactions resulting in a change in control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors, so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 