Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial performance or achievements to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “intend,” “potential,” “project” or other similar words. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We design, develop and market analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products that enable and enhance the features and capabilities of portable and other consumer electronic products. Traditionally, our core products have been mixed-signal color display drivers with integrated controllers, which are critical components of displays used in portable consumer electronic devices. Beginning in 2007, we expanded our product offerings to include light-emitting diode, or LED, drivers, power management, touch technology and consumer audio analog integrated circuits, or ICs. While we have primarily focused on the portable handset market to date, we believe our new analog products will enable us to diversify into other markets. The initial focus of this diversification strategy will be on portable consumer electronic device markets, but we anticipate later expansion into non-portable and industrial markets as our product portfolios evolve. While we expect to generate design wins and revenue from our new product initiatives during 2008, we anticipate the sale of display drivers will continue to generate the majority of our revenue in 2008. During 2007, we shipped 48.5 million units of our display driver products and 0.4 million units of LED drivers. We recorded revenue of $39.6 million. Our goal is to be a supplier of the most power-efficient analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products for portable consumer electronic devices. As a fabless semiconductor company, we focus on design, development and marketing of our products and outsource all of the fabrication, assembly and testing of our products to outside subcontractors. We believe this concentrated focus enables us to provide our customers with critical time-to-market and product differentiation advantages while avoiding the potential customer conflicts of captive business models. To date, we have sold our products primarily to display module manufacturers, which incorporate our products into their display module subassemblies for portable handset manufacturers. Our end market customers have been concentrated among a few significant portable handset manufacturers, including Nokia Corporation, Sony Ericsson and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. As we expand our product portfolio to LED drivers, power management, touch technology and audio ICs, we expect our customer base will broaden to include MP3, personal media player (PMP) manufacturers and other consumer electronic markets, and that we will be selling directly to OEM and ODM manufacturers in addition to our historical display module customers. We were incorporated in Delaware on May 15, 2000, and began commercially shipping products in the third quarter of 2002. Our principal executive offices are located in Sunnyvale, California. Our website address is www.leadis.com. This annual report on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, are publicly available on our website without charge promptly following our filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, a copy of this annual report is available without charge on our website at www.leadis.com or upon written request to: Investor Relations, Leadis Technology, Inc., 800 W. California Avenue, Suite 200, Sunnyvale, California 94086. 1 Table of Contents Industry Overview The market for portable devices requiring display, audio, LED and touch technologies is a large market consisting of products such as portable handsets, MP3/PMP players, personal data assistants, or PDAs, handheld games, and digital still cameras. According to a leading market research company, the number of small and medium sized displays (9” or less) shipped in 2007 was nearly four billion units. To date, our business has focused primarily on the portable handset market, which remains one of the largest portable device markets. We estimate approximately 1.1 billion portable handsets were sold in 2007, representing an increase of approximately 12% compared to 2006. As portable device manufacturers continue to introduce new products with innovative technologies and applications, such as internet videos, digital photos, GPS and advanced gaming, the display has become an increasingly important feature of these devices. Every portable device display needs a display driver. While advances in materials used to manufacture displays have played an important role in display innovation, display drivers are the critical semiconductor components that enable display functionality. The performance characteristics of a display driver are critical to the quality and visual appeal of the images and text generated on the display and the power efficiency of the portable device. Color super twisted nematic liquid crystal displays, or CSTN LCDs, and thin film transistor liquid crystal displays, or TFT LCDs, are the dominant color display technologies for portable handsets. CSTN is primarily used for mid- to low-end portable handsets because of its cost advantage, and TFT is used primarily for mid- to high-end portable handsets based on better image quality, larger size and higher resolution. In 2007, approximately 60% of all portable handsets sold contained TFT displays. Organic light emitting diode, or OLED, technology, known for its excellent display quality, has penetrated the portable device market primarily serving the subdisplays on portable flip phones and the MP3 market based on passive matrix OLED, or PMOLED, technology initially. The penetration rate for PMOLED displays in the portable handset market has slowed in recent periods due to its relatively higher cost compared to CSTN and TFT displays, and limited size. OLED is now being reintroduced in the market based on active matrix OLED, or AMOLED, technology. AMOLED displays can be made for the main screen resolution for high-end handsets. While AMOLED displays are typically still more expensive than TFT displays, handset makers are introducing phones with AMOLED displays based on better display quality and thin form factor. Small LCD displays require a backlight unit to supply the light illuminating the screen, and each backlight unit requires LED drivers. A leading market research firm estimated the total 2007 market for LED drivers to be $925 million, with LED drivers for portable handset backlighting representing approximately three quarters of the LED driver market. A wide variety of portable consumer electronics, including portable phone handsets, MP3 players, digital cameras and set top boxes incorporate audio integrated circuits. Achieving high fidelity audio with low power consumption in a handset generally requires a digital-to-analog converter, or DAC, that is separate from the baseband processor, and a highly efficient headphone amplifier. We estimate that the number of portable handsets sold with built-in MP3 players doubled to 50% of all handsets by the second quarter of 2007. Low power consumption is highly desirable in these units as users restrict MP3 player use to conserve battery power for phone calls. All MP3 or portable media player (PMP) products include a headphone amplifier and approximately 40% utilize a DAC outside of the MP3 microprocessor. Display Driver Product Solutions We offer highly-integrated, single-chip mixed-signal display drivers targeting small panel displays supporting all major display technologies. While driving a large panel display requires multiple discrete integrated circuits, or ICs, such as a display controller, DC to DC converter, and row and column drivers, our small panel display drivers integrate both analog and digital functionality into a single mixed-signal system-on-a-chip, or SoC. To date, we have focused primarily on the portable handset market, but our display driver products are suitable for use in other consumer electronic devices, including MP3 players and PDAs. Leading handset manufacturers generally require displays with varying resolutions and levels of customization within each display technology, which results in a fragmented market. As a result, display driver suppliers must be able to supply a broad spectrum of display drivers in order to be successful in our market. 2 Table of Contents To increase the value proposition of our display driver products, we are incorporating innovative technology that helps optimize the performance of the display. Our new PowerLitetm products contain a dynamic backlight control (DBC) algorithm that optimizes power consumption of the LCD display module. In traditional LCD module operation, the LED-based backlight unit drives at full power regardless of image content. By carefully controlling the backlight power and LCD driving voltages, our PowerLitetm products can reduce the power consumption up to 50% without ambient light input and more than 50% depending upon the ambient light condition. In the third quarter of 2007, we announced an agreement with VP Dynamics of Hong Kong to license their VPWtm RGBW technology for use in our display drivers. RGBW technology adds white (transparent) subpixels to form a proprietary 4 color RGBW display of square subpixels. Higher brightness can be obtained from the backlight through the white subpixels in the case of LCD displays, or from the reflection of the ambient light on the white subpixels area. The VPWtm engine, embedded in a display driver, further enhances the perceived resolution, colors and contrast, and the technology’s dual resolution driving mode further reduces power consumption in portable devices. Our display driver product solutions for portable devices include the following: TFT technology — Thin film transistor liquid crystal display, or TFT LCDs, have been widely used for large panel LCD applications such as notebook PCs, flat panel monitors and televisions. Use of TFT LCDs for small panel applications has gained market share quickly, particularly for mid- to high-end portable devices including portable handsets. We design, develop and market display drivers utilizing two types of TFT technology: amorphous silicon TFT (a-TFT) technology, which is now the most prevalent technology used in portable handsets, and low-temperature polysilicon (LTPS) TFT technology, an advanced form of TFT. We currently offer 13 different TFT display drivers, and expect to introduce several new a-TFT and LTPS drivers in 2008. Our first new TFT product with our PowerLitetm solution, the LDS285, was introduced in the second quarter of 2007, and is expected to commence volume shipments in the first quarter of 2008. Sales of TFT display drivers accounted for 17% of revenue in 2007. We were awarded 15 design wins in 2007 on display drivers and expect that a significant portion of our 2008 display driver revenue will be generated from sales of a-TFT and LTPS products. STN technology — Super twisted nematic liquid crystal display, or STN LCDs, is a widely used technology for small panel displays, particularly for displays used in portable handsets. In 2007, 74% of our revenue was derived from sales of CSTN display drivers. TFT technology has replaced STN as the dominant display technology, therefore we have and will continue to decrease our investment in STN products in favor of our TFT products, particularly those with innovative technology. OLED technology — Organic light emitting diode, or OLED, technology, known for its excellent display quality, has penetrated the portable device market initially serving the subdisplays on portable flip phones and the MP3 market based on passive matrix OLED, or PMOLED, technology. The penetration rate for PMOLED displays in the portable handset market has slowed in recent periods due to its relatively higher cost compared to CSTN and TFT displays, and limited size. OLED is now being reintroduced in the market based on active matrix OLED, or AMOLED, technology. AMOLED displays can be made for the main screen resolution for high-end handsets. While AMOLED displays are still more expensive than TFT displays, handset manufacturers are introducing phones with AMOLED displays because they have better display quality and thin form factors. Adoption of AMOLED technology into high volume consumer markets has been hampered by major drawbacks such as poor manufacturing yields, image sticking, short life times, and differential color aging. In September 2007, we acquired technology from Nuelight Corporation that shows potential to improve AMOLED display panel manufacturing yields by correcting non-uniform brightness due to mura defects and improve the lifetime of such displays by correcting image sticking. We expect to design this technology into display driver products during 2008. LED Driver & Power Management Product Solutions Our initial LED driver products are focused on controlling the LED backlight of portable handsets to optimize power consumption. Small LCD displays require a backlight unit to supply the light illuminating the screen, and each backlight unit requires two to six LEDs. Historically, LED drivers have been functionally independent of the 3 Table of Contents LCD display drivers. However, as power savings becomes an increasingly significant factor in display module performance, communication between LED and LCD drivers becomes an essential requirement. Our existing line of LCD display drivers control the amount of backlight transmitted, facilitating the transformation of digital display data into visual images. Our new line of LED drivers will receive communication from the display driver and thereby control the intensity of the backlight unit required to render a high-quality image at the lowest power consumption levels. Combining our new family of LED drivers with our new PowerLitetm display drivers, we expect to be able to provide a system solution for display modules, achieving up to 50% power savings compared to current architectures. We currently offer 12 LED driver products for portable backlighting applications. These devices are all high efficiency charge pumps that differ in the number of LEDs each can drive, the input voltages, and the current level upon each LED. Currently two of our LED drivers support our PowerLitetm power regulation feature. In December 2007, we acquired Acutechnology Semiconductor, Inc., a developer of power management integrated circuits such as low dropout (LDO) regulators and shunt references. These products convert and regulate voltages to ensure that electronic systems operate to their best potential with the lowest possible power consumption. This acquisition adds several products to our portfolio, and will allow us to add innovative power management features to our LED driver and audio product lines. Consumer Audio Product Solutions In February 2007, we acquired Mondowave, Inc., a developer of semiconductor products for portable audio devices. Currently, we are offering three audio products that dramatically improve power efficiency while maintaining best in class signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in portable audio applications such as cell phones, MP3 players, portable navigation systems and digital still cameras. Our LDS9200 product is a compact FM stereo transmitter that connects portable audio sources such as MP3 players and aftermarket satellite radios, to stereo equipment in the home or car, with no wires or line of sight required. Our LDS9302 product is an analog codec that includes a digital-to-analog converter (DAC) and amplifier that delivers excellent stereo audio performance at one-third the power dissipation of comparable devices. Ideal for portable consumer electronic devices such as MP3 players, the LDS9302 product includes a highly efficient Gmaxtm stereo headphone amplifier capable of driving headphones with 50 milliwatts at 3.3 volts. The LDS9350 product combines the LDS9302 with the LDS9200, integrating a stereo FM transmitter, a low SNR stereo audio DAC and amplifier into a single solution. Touch Sensor Technology Product Solutions We initiated our development of touch sensor technology IC solutions in 2007. Our initial touch sensor technology products will be capacitive touch sensor ICs for buttons or slider controls. We expect engineering samples to be available in the first half of 2008. Product Strategy Our objective is to be a leading provider of analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products for portable and consumer electronic devices by developing and exploiting innovative technology, leveraging our display driver experience to expand to complementary products for portable devices, and making our products efficient and cost-effective. The principal elements of our strategy are to: • Create greater value in our display drivers. Incorporating innovative technology into our display drivers is essential for our long term success. In 2007, we introduced a PowerLitetm solution, consisting of a dynamic backlight control algorithm, and several high-speed serial interfaces to our display driver products. In addition, by combining our new family of LED drivers with our new PowerLitetm LCD drivers, we believe we will be able to provide a system solution for display modules, further enhancing the value of our display driver products. In the third quarter of 2007, we announced an agreement with VP Dynamics to license their VPWtm RGBW technology for use in our display drivers. Our strategy in 2008 will be to develop differentiated TFT display drivers using these new technologies. We will also utilize our revitalized intellectual property offering to pursue non-recurring engineering, or NRE driven product development efforts, which will defray some of the R&D costs. We will also develop display drivers for AMOLED 4 Table of Contents displays, including designs that incorporate assets and intellectual property acquired from Nuelight Corporation. We expect this strategy wil allow us to offer value driven products at improved gross margins. • Expand beyond display drivers. We have leveraged our core capabilities in analog and mixed-signal product development and a strong position with portable handset makers to move into related, higher margin product areas such as LED drivers, power management, audio and touch sensor technology. Our high efficiency LED product families are the initial result of this effort. In February 2007 we acquired Mondowave, Inc., a small private company focused on low power portable audio products. In December 2007 we acquired Acutechnology Semiconductor, Inc., a small private company focused on power management solutions. Collectively, we have created a suite of complementary sight, sound and touch products that permit our customers to offer portable devices with dramatically reduced power consumption, allowing extended battery life or the use of smaller, lighter batteries. However, we expect only modest revenue in 2008 from these newer products. • Provide high-quality and cost-effective designs. Our cost reduction strategy depends upon process technology migration and designing the smallest possible die size for our products. In 2007, we developed a memory compression algorithm that enables us to reduce the memory requirements in our display drivers by a factor of two with negligible impact on picture quality. Since memory can comprise as much as 40% of the die area in high resolution display drivers, this reduction in memory requirement can have a significant impact on product cost. We are designing some of our new products using a 0.15um high voltage process, and we plan to migrate to a 0.13um high voltage process for our next generation display drivers. This migration will enable us to cost-effectively incorporate more features on our products and improve our overall cost structure. Sales and Marketing We currently sell our display driver products to display module manufacturers, who in turn sell their display modules to portable handset manufacturers. Our audio and LED products are sold largely to manufacturers of portable handsets or consumer electronics. We focus our sales and marketing strategy on establishing business and technology relationships with both major display module manufacturers and portable handset manufacturers to allow us to work closely with them on future solutions that align with their product roadmaps. Our design engineers collaborate with display module and other subcontractor design engineers to create solutions that comply with the specifications of the portable handset manufacturers and provide a high level of performance at competitive prices. Our end customer market is highly concentrated among a few significant portable device manufacturers. We market and sell our products through our direct sales force and sales representative firms with staff located in the United States, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. We also market and sell through independent distributors in China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. We employ field application engineers to provide technical support and assistance to potential and existing customers in designing, testing and qualifying display modules or electronic designs that incorporate our products. Customers In 2007, our two largest customers, TPO Displays Corporation and Rikei Corporation, a sales distributor in Japan, accounted for approximately 53% and 29% of our revenue, respectively. We are actively working with other display module manufacturers on new designs and intend to continue expanding our working relationships with existing customers and cultivating new customers for our new product offerings. Even as we expand our customer base, we expect a significant portion of our revenue to be generated from sales to a limited number of customers. As a result, the loss of or significant reduction in orders from any of our largest customers could significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our operating results. These portable display module manufacturers supply modules incorporating our drivers to a concentrated group of significant portable handset manufacturers, including Nokia Corporation, Sony Ericsson, and Samsung Electronics. Sales to customers located in China and Japan represented approximately 58% and 29% of our total sales in 2007, respectively. Our product mix by geography will vary depending on changes in sales and design wins by customer. Please refer to Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated 5 Table of Contents Financial Statements included in this annual report for additional information regarding revenue by geographic region. Seasonality Our industry is focused on the portable consumer electronic products market. Due to the seasonality in this market, we typically expect to see stronger revenue growth in the second half of the calendar year than in the first half of the year. In addition to the seasonality, the portable handset market is also characterized by intense competition among a concentrated group of manufacturers, rapidly evolving technology and changing consumer preferences. These factors result in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, continually evolving portable handset specifications and significant price competition. Our new product areas such as audio, LED and touch sensor technology may produce growth trends that overshadow our prior seasonal revenue patterns. In addition, in the past, portable handset manufacturers have inaccurately forecasted consumer demand, which has led to significant changes in orders to their component suppliers. We have experienced both increases and decreases to orders within the same quarter and with limited advance notice. We expect such increases and decreases of orders to continue to occur in the future. Manufacturing We outsource the manufacturing, assembly and testing of our products to third parties. Our foundry suppliers fabricate our display driver products using a customized, high-voltage version of their mature and stable CMOS process technology with feature sizes of 0.15 micron and higher. Our principal foundry suppliers are Seiko Epson in Japan, Silterra Malaysia Sdn.Bhd. in Malaysia and United Microelectronics Corporation in Taiwan, but we may use other foundry suppliers in the future as our product portfolio expands. Our fabless manufacturing model significantly reduces our capital requirements and allows us to focus our resources on the design, development and marketing of our products. In addition, we benefit from our suppliers’ manufacturing expertise, and from the flexibility to select those vendors that we believe offer the best capability and value. To the extent our foundry suppliers experience poor yield rates or tightened capacity conditions, we may be unable to meet our customers’ demand requirements and our business may be harmed. Following wafer fabrication processing, our wafers are shipped from the foundries to assembly and testing contractors, where they are electrically tested and assembled onto tape carrier packages for certain devices. We develop and control all product test programs used by our subcontractors. These test programs are developed based on product specifications, thereby maintaining our control over the performance of our devices. We currently rely primarily on Chipbond Technology Corporation, International Semiconductor Technology Ltd. and King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd., each located in Taiwan, to assemble and test our products. As our product portfolio expands, we may use additional assembly and testing contractors. To the extent these contractors experience heightened demand for their services, we may be unable to secure sufficient testing and assembly capacity to meet our customers’ product demand requirements. While our testing contractors currently ship our products directly to our customers, we may in the future ship products to customers out of our own facility. Inventory We manage inventories by forecasting product-by-product demand based upon our industry experience and communications with our customers. We place manufacturing orders for our products that are based on this forecasted demand. The quantity of products actually purchased by our customers as well as shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers’ requirements and in manufacturing availability. Depending upon the level of demand for our products and demand for products incorporating our devices, we may maintain substantial inventories of our products in order to be able to meet demand on a timely basis. In addition, any cancellation, modification or delay in shipments in the future may impact our inventory levels. 6 Table of Contents Research and Development We conduct our display driver design and development activities in Korea and in 2007, we added engineering staff in the United States to support our audio, LED and touch technology development objectives. As we expand our product base, we may add additional research and development capacity in other locations to maintain close proximity to customers, access experienced engineers and contain costs. We believe that our continued commitment to research and development and timely introduction of new and enhanced products is integral to maintaining our competitive position. As a result, we expect to continue to allocate significant resources to these efforts. Our total expenditures for research and development were $18.6 million for 2007, $13.8 million for 2006, and $14.5 million for 2005. Intellectual Property Our success and future growth will depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret laws, contractual provisions, and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We also attempt to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information through agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants. As of December 31, 2007, we had twenty-seven U.S. patent applications pending, twenty-six foreign patent applications pending, and had been issued thirteen U.S. patents and four patents in Korea. These patent applications and issued patents cover our intellectual property contained in our display drivers, LED drivers, audio, power management and touch sensor technology products. We expect to file additional patent applications covering our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that any patents will be issued to us as a result of our pending or future applications or that any patent issued will provide substantive protection for the technology or product covered by it. While we intend to protect our intellectual property rights vigorously, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful. Despite our precautions, a third party may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, technology or processes without authorization, or may independently develop similar technology. In addition, effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that the measures we have implemented to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property will be successful. Competition The markets for semiconductors generally, and portable electronics integrated circuits in particular, are intensely competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include cost, design times, operating performance, level of integration, design customization, manufacturing expertise and quality. We believe our solutions compete favorably across these factors. However, many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, complementary product offerings, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. We anticipate that the market for our products will be subject to rapid technological change. Many portable device display module manufacturers are affiliated with vertically integrated electronics companies. Some of these companies also have semiconductor design and manufacturing resources for developing display drivers. We typically compete with these captive semiconductor suppliers as well as independent semiconductor suppliers. Captive semiconductor suppliers with which we compete include semiconductor divisions of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, Sharp Electronics Corporation and Toshiba Corporation. The major independent suppliers of display drivers with which we compete include Himax Technologies, Ltd., MagnaChip Semiconductor Ltd., NEC Corporation, Novatek Microelectronics Corp., Ltd., Renesas Technology Corp., Sitronix Technology Corporation, and Solomon Systech Limited. The competitors for our LED drivers include Advanced Analogic Technologies, Inc., Linear Technology Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Micrel Incorporated, National Semiconductor Corporation, and Texas Instruments Incorporated. 7 Table of Contents The competitors for our audio products include AKM Semiconductor, Inc., Cirrus Logic, Inc., Maxim Integrated Products, National Semiconductor, Rohm Electronics, Co. Ltd., Texas Instruments, STMicroelectronics and Wolfson Microelectronics plc. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had 184 employees, including 98 in research and development, 22 in operations and 64 in sales, marketing, general and administrative functions. By region, 54 of our employees were located in the United States, 84 in Korea and 46 in other parts of Asia. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe we have good relations with our employees. Financial Information by Geographic Location We operate in a single industry segment: the design, development and marketing of mixed-signal semiconductors that enable and enhance the features and capabilities of portable consumer electronic products. We currently generate all of our revenue from customers in Asia and Japan. Related information is included in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K in evaluating our company and our business. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be impaired. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We depend on a small number of key customers for substantially all of our revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any key customer would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our operating results. Our primary source of revenue comes from the sale of display drivers to display module manufacturers serving the portable handset market. Historically, substantially all of our revenue has been generated from sales to a very small number of customers. During fiscal 2007, our top two customers, TPO Displays Corporation and Rikei Corporation, accounted for approximately 82% of our revenue. The loss of, or a reduction in purchases by, any of our key customers would likely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our market has a relatively small number of potential customers and we expect this market concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, even as we seek to broaden our customer base we expect that our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, though we expect that the specific customers that represent a significant portion of our revenue will fluctuate from period to period. As we seek to expand our business to other product lines, we will need to achieve design wins at new customers to whom we have not previously sold products. As further discussed in a risk factor below, because our sales to these customers are made pursuant to standard purchase orders rather than contracts, orders may be cancelled or reduced more readily than if we had long-term purchase commitments with these customers. In the event of a cancellation or reduction of an order, we may not have enough time to reduce operating expenses to minimize the effect of the lost revenue on our business. Consolidation in our customers’ industries may result in increased customer concentration and the potential loss of customers. In 2006, the business of Philips MDS, one of our largest customers, merged with Toppoly Optoelectronics Corporation, another customer, to form TPO Displays Corporation. In addition, some of our customers may have efforts underway to actively diversify their supply chain, which could reduce their purchases of our products. 8 Table of Contents Our customers include our products in displays sold to a small number of handset manufacturers, and the loss of business by our customers with these handset manufacturers could adversely affect our business. Nearly all our display driver products are used for displays sold for use in portable handsets manufactured by a concentrated group of handset manufacturers. Moreover, the large majority of our display driver products are used in handsets manufactured by Nokia Corporation. To the extent any of our module display customers lose some or all of their business with the portable handset manufacturers to which they supply modules containing our products, and Nokia in particular, our business would be adversely affected. Even if our products are included in portable handsets sold to handset manufacturers, the particular portable handset device may ultimately not be marketed and sold successfully to consumers, which could cause us to lose sales we had anticipated. Our efforts to expand our product portfolio and enter into new markets have attendant execution risk. Until recently, our products have been display drivers for small panel displays used in portable handsets or MP3 players. One of our corporate strategies, however, involves leveraging our core strengths in analog and mixed-signal design to expand into new markets. In 2007, we announced our intention to develop and sell light emitting diode, or LED, drivers and touch technology sensor products. We recorded our first sales of LED drivers in the third quarter of 2007. In February 2007, we acquired Mondowave, Inc., a developer of semiconductor products for consumer audio applications, and in December 2007 we acquired Acutechnology Semiconductor, Inc., a maker of power management analog integrated circuits. We have increased our operating expenses and will likely continue to expend substantial resources, including cash, in developing new and additional products for these and, potentially, other new markets. We may experience unforeseen difficulties and delays in developing these products, as well as defects upon production, and our products may not achieve market acceptance. We do not have a long history in these markets, and our lack of market knowledge relative to other participants in such markets may prevent us from competing effectively in them. Moreover, it is possible that our competitive strengths will not translate effectively into these markets, or that these markets will not develop at the rates we anticipate. Any of these events could negatively affect our future operating results. We may undertake acquisitions to expand our business that may pose risks to our business, reduce our cash balance and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. As part of our growth and product diversification strategy, we evaluate and pursue opportunities to acquire other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of markets we can address or enhance our technical capabilities. In February 2007, we acquired Mondowave, Inc., a privately held semiconductor company specializing in consumer audio applications. In the third quarter of 2007, we acquired the intellectual property of Nuelight Corporation, including technology that shows potential to improve manufacturing yields in AMOLED displays. In December of 2007, we acquired Acutechnology Semiconductor, Inc., a privately held semiconductor company specializing in power management products. The acquisition of these companies and technology and any acquisitions that we may make in the future entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, operating and financial results, including: • problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products with our existing business and products; • diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; • need for financial resources above our planned investment levels; • difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; • risks associated with entering markets in which we lack prior experience or relationships; and • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. Such acquisitions also could cause us to expend a substantial portion of our cash balances, incur debt or contingent liabilities, incur accounting charges, or cause us to issue equity securities that would reduce the 9 Table of Contents ownership percentages of existing stockholders, which could impair our financial position. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment. In addition, any future acquisitions may not be favorably received by investors or securities analysts, which could cause declines in our stock price. If we are unable to timely develop new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new display drivers, LED and power management integrated circuits, audio components and touch sensor products, as well as product enhancements, that achieve timely and cost-effective market acceptance. The development of our products is highly complex, and we have experienced, and in the future may experience, delays in the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements. In addition, because we sell our display driver products to display module manufacturers, we have limited visibility into the specification requirements of the portable handset manufacturers, making it more difficult for us to influence or predict future technology requirements. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that a display module manufacturer or handset manufacturer will select our product for design into its own product. Once a customer designs a competitor’s product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers typically involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Successful product development and market acceptance of our products depend on a number of factors, including: • accurate prediction of changing requirements of customers within the portable device and small panel display markets; • timely completion and introduction of new designs, including low-cost versions of existing products; • timely qualification and certification of our drivers for use in our customers’ products; • the prices at which we are able to offer our products; • quality, performance, power use and size of our products as compared to competing products and technologies; • successful integration of the display module, including components supplied by other suppliers; • commercial acceptance and commercial production of the devices into which our products are incorporated; • achievement of acceptable manufacturing yields; • interoperability of our products with other display module components; • our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness; • successful development of our relationships with existing and potential customers; • our ability to retain, train and manage new suppliers and sales representatives and distributors; • portable service providers’ demand for handsets incorporating our products; and • changes in technology, industry standards or end-user preferences. We cannot assure you that products we recently developed, or products we may develop in the future, will achieve market acceptance. Our audio, LED driver and touch sensor technology products have not been awarded any significant design wins to date. If these products fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to develop new products that achieve market acceptance, our growth prospects, operating results and competitive position could be adversely affected. For example, delays in product introductions in 2006 and lack of design wins harmed our financial results in 2007. While new display driver design wins in 2007 may improve our long-term sales outlook, we cannot assure you that the resulting product introductions will occur timely, nor can we assure you that these new introductions will generate sufficient sales to offset expected declines on older products. 10 Table of Contents We are dependent on sales of a small number of products, and the absence of continued market acceptance of these products could harm our business. Historically, we have derived all of our revenue from a limited number of display driver products primarily used in portable handset displays, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenue from these or related products in the near term. As a result, in the short term, a decline in market demand for one or more of our display driver products, or the failure of one or more of our display driver products to gain broad market acceptance, could result in a significant decline in revenue and reduced operating results. Our display product portfolio has traditionally been heavily weighted toward products based on color super twisted nematic liquid crystal display, or CSTN technology. The market has transitioned away from CSTN in favor of thin film transistor, or TFT, devices. In 2008, we intend to place a greater emphasis on development of TFT and AM-OLED display drivers, and market acceptance of these products is critical to our business and financial results. We will also focus on the development of new LED drivers, audio and touch sensor integrated circuits and market acceptance of these new products is critical to our long-term success. The average selling prices of our products tend to decline over time, often rapidly, and if we are unable to develop successful new products in a timely manner, our operating results will be harmed. The portable electronic device market, and in particular the portable handset market, is extremely cost sensitive, which has resulted, and may continue to result, in declining average selling prices of portable handset components. The products we develop and sell are used for high volume applications and the average selling prices tend to decline, often rapidly, over the life of the product. We expect similar trends with respect to our new LED drivers and audio products. We may reduce the average unit price of our products in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. In recent periods, we experienced significant declines in the average selling prices of our display driver products, which also harms our gross margins. Our average selling price declined from $0.86 in the fourth quarter of 2006 to $0.72 in the fourth quarter of 2007, a decline of 16%. As our product mix becomes more diverse, our average selling price for any period is also impacted by our mix of products sold for that period. In recent periods our mix of products sold has been weighted more heavily toward more mature products that command a lower price, which has reduced our average selling price. To maintain acceptable operating results, we will need to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continue to reduce our production costs. If we are unable to offset reductions in our average selling prices by timely introducing new products at higher average prices or reducing our production costs, our operating results will suffer. If we are unable to comply with evolving customer specifications and requirements, customers may choose other products instead of our own. Our display driver products are incorporated in display modules, which must comply with portable handset manufacturers’ continually evolving specifications. Similarly, our new LED drivers and audio products will need to satisfy certain performance specifications of portable handset or electronic device manufacturers. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to comply with these specifications. We must continue to incorporate additional features and advanced technology into our products to be successful. In addition, as we seek to add new customers, we will need to comply with new and different specifications and quality standards. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing specifications for a significant period of time, we could miss opportunities to have customers choose our products over those of our competitors early in the customer’s design process, which is known as a design win. Loss of design wins could harm our business because display module manufacturers and portable handset and electronic device manufacturers typically do not change suppliers once a device has been designed. In addition, loss of a design win may make it more difficult to obtain future design wins with the manufacturer. We may not be successful in developing new products or product enhancements that achieve market acceptance. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances requires substantial time and expense and may not be successful, which would harm our competitive position. 11 Table of Contents Our business is highly dependent on the portable consumer electronics market, which is highly concentrated and characterized by significant price competition, short product life cycles, fluctuations in demand, and seasonality, any of which could negatively impact our business or results of operations. Nearly all of our 2007 revenue was generated from sales of display drivers for use in portable handsets. We anticipate that a significant portion of sales of our new LED drivers and audio products also will be for use in portable handsets. The portable handset market is characterized by intense competition among a concentrated group of manufacturers, rapidly evolving technology, and changing consumer preferences. These factors result in the frequent introduction of new products, significant price competition, short product life cycles, and continually evolving portable handset specifications. If we, our customers or portable handset manufacturers are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. For example, a faster than anticipated ramp down of a mature program negatively impacted our revenue in 2007. Our business is also dependent on the broad commercial acceptance of the portable handsets into which our devices are incorporated. Even though we may achieve design wins, if the portable handsets incorporating our products do not achieve significant customer acceptance, our revenue will be adversely affected. We expect our business to be subject to seasonality and varying order patterns in the portable handset market. In the portable handset market, demand is typically stronger in the second half of the year than the first half of the year. However, in the past portable handset manufacturers inaccurately forecasted consumer demand, which led to significant changes in orders to their component suppliers. We have experienced both increases and decreases in orders within the same quarter and with limited advance notice, and we expect such increases and decreases to occur in the future. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. If we, or our customers, are unable to increase production of new or existing products to meet any increases in demand due to seasonality or other factors, our revenue from such products would be adversely affected and this may damage our reputation with our customers and the portable handset manufacturers. Conversely, if our customers or the portable handset manufacturers overestimate consumer demand, they may reduce their orders or delay shipments of our products from amounts forecasted, and our revenue in a particular period could be adversely affected. We have incurred losses in prior periods and will incur losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $11.4 million, $11.9 million, and $30.9 million in 2005, 2006, and 2007 respectively. We expect to continue to incur net operating losses for the next several quarters as we invest in the development and expansion of our business to new products and markets. Our ability to return to or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future depends in part on our ability to develop new products, the rate of growth of our target markets, the competitive position of our products, the continued acceptance of our customers’ products, and our ability to manage expenses. We may not again achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our revenue has fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year, so you should not rely on the results of any past periods as an indication of future revenue performance or growth. In the past, we have experienced significant revenue fluctuation from quarter to quarter and year to year. While our revenue increased 58% in 2006 compared to 2005, we experienced a 61% decline in revenue in 2007 compared to 2006. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior periods as an indication of our future revenue growth or financial results. Our quarterly financial results fluctuate, which leads to volatility in our stock price. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to do so in the future. As a result, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our revenue and operating results could negatively affect the trading price of our stock. In addition, our revenue and results of operations may, in the future, be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Factors that are likely to cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate include the risk factors discussed throughout this section. 12 Table of Contents Our products are complex and may require modifications to resolve undetected errors or failures, which could lead to an increase in our costs, a loss of customers or a delay in market acceptance of our products. Our products are highly complex and have contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new revisions are released. If we deliver products with errors or defects, we may incur additional development, repair or replacement costs, our margin rates will suffer, and our credibility and the market acceptance of our products could be harmed. Defects in our products could also lead to liability as a result of lawsuits against us or our customers. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our products. A successful product liability claim could require us to make significant damage payments. Our products must interoperate with the components supplied to our customers by other suppliers. Our small panel display drivers, audio and LED driver products comprise only part of a complex electronics system manufactured by our customers. As a result, these products must operate according to specifications with the other components in the system. For example, in a display subassembly our display drivers are attached to the display glass and must interoperate with the glass efficiently. Our audio products must generally interoperate with a third party microprocessor. If other components of the electronic system fail to operate efficiently with our products, we may be required to incur additional development time and costs optimizing the interoperability of our products with the other components. Additionally, if other components of the system contain errors or defects that cannot be corrected in a timely fashion, the customer may delay or cancel production of its system, adversely impacting our sales. Failure to transition to new manufacturing process technologies could adversely affect our operating results and gross margin. To remain competitive, we strive to manufacture our drivers using increasingly smaller geometries and higher levels of design integration. Our strategy is to utilize the most advanced manufacturing process technology appropriate for our products and available from our third-party foundry contractors. Use of advanced processes may have greater risk of initial yield problems and higher production costs. Manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development. In the past, we have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. Moreover, we are dependent on our relationships with our third-party manufacturers to successfully migrate to smaller geometry processes. The inability by us or our third-party manufacturers to effectively and efficiently transition to new manufacturing process technologies may adversely affect our gross margin and our operating results. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan our expenses. We were formed in May 2000 and had our initial meaningful shipments of display driver products in the third quarter of 2002. As a result, we have limited historical financial data from which to predict our future revenue and expenses. We have not yet had meaningful shipments of our initial LED, audio or touch sensor products. Moreover, because we do not sell our display drivers directly to portable handset manufacturers, we have limited visibility into their order patterns and sales of their products. Due to our limited operating history and limited visibility into portable handset manufacturers’ demand, it is difficult to accurately forecast our future revenue. The rapidly evolving nature of the portable handset and portable electronic device markets and other factors that are beyond our control also limit our ability to accurately forecast revenue and expenses. Because most of our expenses are fixed in the short term or incurred in advance of anticipated revenue, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall in revenue. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to accurately forecast customer demand, we may have excess or insufficient inventory, which may increase our operating costs and harm our business. We will sell our audio, LED and touch products to manufacturers of portable handsets. We sell our display drivers to display module manufacturers who integrate our drivers into the displays that they supply to handset manufacturers. We have limited visibility as to the volume of our products that our customers are selling to their customers or carrying in their inventory. If our customers have excess inventory or experience a slowing of products sold through to their end customers, it would likely result in a slowdown in orders from our customers and adversely impact our future sales. Moreover, to ensure availability of our products for our customers, in some cases we start the manufacturing of our products based on forecasts provided by these customers in advance of receiving purchase orders. However, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments, and we do not recognize revenue from these products until they are shipped to the customer. As a result, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated revenue. If we overestimate customer demand for our products or if purchase orders are cancelled or shipments delayed by our customers, we may end up with excess inventory that we cannot sell, which would harm our financial results. This inventory risk is exacerbated because many of our display driver products are customized, which hampers our ability to sell any excess inventory to the general market. Our customer orders are subject to cancellation, reduction or delay in delivery schedules, which may result in lower than anticipated revenue. Our sales are generally made pursuant to standard purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. These purchase orders may be cancelled or modified or the shipment dates delayed by the customer. Although we have not in the past experienced significant cancellations of orders, we may in the future experience such cancellations. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in scheduled shipment dates, which have on occasion resulted, and may in the future result, in our recognizing revenue in a later period than anticipated. We have also experienced reductions to previously placed purchase orders. Any cancellation, modification or delay in shipments in the future may result in lower than anticipated revenue. We face significant competition and may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors. The markets for semiconductors generally, and small panel display drivers in particular, are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase and intensify in the future. Increased competition may result in price pressure, reduced profitability and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our revenue and operating results. The major independent semiconductor suppliers with which we may compete for sales of our display drivers include Himax Technologies, Ltd., MagnaChip Semiconductor Ltd., NEC Corporation, Novatek Microelectronics Corp., Ltd., Renesas Technology Corp., Sitronix Technology Corporation, and Solomon Systech Limited. Additionally, many portable device display module manufacturers are affiliated with vertically integrated electronics companies. Some of these companies also have semiconductor design and manufacturing resources for developing display drivers. Captive semiconductor suppliers with which we may compete include semiconductor divisions of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, Sharp Electronics Corporation and Toshiba Corporation. Competitors for our LED drivers include Advanced Analogic Technologies, Inc., Linear Technology Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Micrel Incorporated, National Semiconductor Corporation, and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Competitors for our audio products include AKM Semiconductor, Inc., Cirrus Logic, Inc., Maxim Integrated Products, National Semiconductor, Rohm Electronics, Co. Ltd., Texas Instruments, STMicroelectronics and Wolfson Microelectronics plc. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, complementary product offerings, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. In addition, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to obtain wafer 14 Table of Contents fabrication capacity when we are unable to do so. Any of these factors could cause us to be at a competitive disadvantage to our existing and potential new competitors. We face competition from businesses related to our customers, which could harm our business. Our direct customers for our display drivers are display module manufacturers serving the portable handset market. One customer, Samsung SDI, and some of our Japanese end customers, are affiliated with corporate organizations that have a division that designs, manufactures and sells display drivers that compete with our products. To the extent these customers choose to replace our products with an affiliate’s products, our business will be negatively impacted. We rely on a limited number of independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our chipsets and on third party logistics providers to ship products to our customers. The failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. As a fabless semiconductor company, we do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have limited in-house testing facilities. As a result, we rely on third-party vendors to manufacture, assemble and test the products that we design. We primarily rely on Seiko Epson in Japan, Silterra Malaysia Sdn Bhd. in Malaysia, and United Microelectronics Corporation in Taiwan to produce our display driver products. We also rely on Chipbond Technology Corporation, International Semiconductor Technology Ltd. and King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd, each located in Taiwan, to assemble and test our display driver products. We may use different vendors for the production and testing of our LED and audio products. If our current or future vendors do not provide us with high-quality products, services and/or production and test capacity in a timely manner, or if the relationship with one or more of these vendors is terminated, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacements and/or we may be unable to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, our relationships with our customers could suffer, our sales could decrease and our growth could be limited. We face risks associated with relying on third-party vendors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products. We face significant risks associated with relying on third-party vendors, including: • reduced ability to increase production and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis; • reduced control over delivery schedules and product quality; • limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; • limited ability to obtain insurance coverage for business interruptions related to contractors; • increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; • shortages of materials that foundries use to manufacture our products; • labor shortages or labor strikes; • political instability in countries where contractors are located; and • actions taken by our subcontractors that breach our agreements. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party manufacturing vendors and they may allocate capacity to other customers and may not allocate sufficient capacity to us to meet future demands for our products. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our third-party contractors. As a result, none of our third-party contractors is obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Moreover, none of our third-party foundry or assembly and test vendors has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate 15 Table of Contents capacity will be available to us to meet future demand for our products. We provide our foundry contractors with monthly rolling forecasts of our production requirements; however, the ability of each foundry to provide wafers to us is limited by the foundry’s available capacity. Our foundry contractors use raw materials in the manufacture of wafers used to manufacture our products. To the extent our foundry contractors experience shortages of these wafers, we may be unable to obtain capacity as required. In addition, the price of our wafers will fluctuate based on changes in available industry capacity. Our foundry, assembly and test contractors may allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice or increasing the prices they charge us. These foundry, assembly and test contractors may reallocate capacity to other customers that are larger and better financed than us or that have long-term agreements or relationships with these foundries or assembly and test contractors, which would decrease the capacity available to us. Moreover, to the extent we decide to, or are required to, change contractors we will face risks associated with establishing new business relationships and capacity. To secure manufacturing capacity at our foundry, assembly and test suppliers we may be required to make substantial purchase commitments or prepayments in future periods or enter into agreements that commit us to purchase minimum quantities in order to secure capacity or to achieve favorable prices. While we currently do not have plans for long-term agreements with any of our suppliers, we may enter into such agreements in the future, which could reduce our cash flow and subject us to risks of excess inventory or service costs. Failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for existing and/or new products would reduce our gross margin and could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We have experienced, and may again experience, manufacturing yields that were less than we had anticipated. Semiconductor manufacturing yields are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which is typically developed by our third-party foundries. As low manufacturing yields may result from either design or process technology failures, yield problems may not be effectively determined or resolved until an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested to identify sensitivities relating to the design processes used. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well after the production process has begun. Any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our manufacturing costs and decrease our ability to fulfill customer orders in a timely fashion. This could potentially have a negative impact on our revenue, our gross margin, our gross profit, and our customer relationships. The manufacturing yields for new products tend to be lower initially and increase as we achieve full production. The short product life cycles of our display drivers require us to develop new products faster and to manufacture these products for shorter periods of time. In many cases, these shorter manufacturing periods will not reach the longer, higher volume manufacturing periods conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. We also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. A significant number of product returns due to a defect or recall could damage our reputation and result in our customers working with our competitors. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, and our operating results may be negatively impacted by downturns in the general semiconductor industry. Our business is impacted by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies and their customers and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns could significantly harm our sales, reduce our profitability or result in losses for a prolonged period of time. From time to time, the semiconductor industry also has experienced periods of increased demand and production capacity constraints. We may experience substantial changes in future operating results due to general semiconductor industry conditions, general economic conditions and other factors. 16 Table of Contents Any disruption to our operations or the operations of our foundry, assembly and test contractors resulting from earthquakes or other natural disasters could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products. Our corporate headquarters are located in California. In addition, a substantial portion of our engineering operations and the third-party contractors that manufacture, assemble and test our products are located in the Pacific Rim. The risk of losses due to an earthquake in California and the Pacific Rim is significant due to the proximity to major earthquake fault lines. The occurrence of earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in disruption of our operations and the operations of our foundry, assembly and test contractors. We rely on our key personnel to manage our business, and to develop products, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. Our future success will also depend on our ability to retain the services of our key personnel, developing their successors and effectively managing the transition of key roles when they occur. If we lose any of our key technical or senior management personnel, or are unable to fill key positions, our business could be harmed. There are a limited number of qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacture, and sale of analog integrated circuits, and we may face challenges hiring and retaining these types of employees. Our ability to expand our operations to meet corporate growth objectives depends upon our ability to hire and retain additional senior management personnel and qualified technical personnel. Our inability to effectively manage growth in our operations may prevent us from successfully expanding our business. We expanded our operations in 2007 to include LED, audio and touch technology products. As a result of these new ventures, we have increased the scope and complexity of our operations, expanded our workforce, and partnered with new sales representatives and distributors. This growth places a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. In addition, we anticipate that we will continue to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, manage multiple suppliers, sales representatives and distributors and greater levels of inventories, which will add complexity to our business operations. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain, copy or use information that we regard as proprietary, such as product design and manufacturing process expertise. As of December 31, 2007, we had twenty-seven U.S. patent applications pending, twenty-six foreign patent applications pending and had been issued thirteen U.S. patents and four Korea patents relating to our display driver, LED driver, audio, power management, and touch sensor products and technology. Our pending patent applications and any future applications may not result in issued patents and any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Moreover, policing any unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the measures we have implemented will prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. The enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. 17 Table of Contents Assertions by third parties of infringement by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and cause our operating results to suffer. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. Although we are not currently a party to legal action alleging our infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, in the future we may receive letters from various industry participants alleging infringement of patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights. Any lawsuits resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products or using technology that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • pay damages to the party claiming infringement; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. In the future, the outcome of a dispute may be that we would need to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. We may also initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. We have agreed to indemnify certain customers for certain claims of infringement arising out of the sale of our products. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers or others. We have significant international activities and customers, and plan to continue such efforts, which subjects us to additional business risks including increased logistical complexity, political instability and currency fluctuations. We are incorporated and headquartered in the United States, and we have international subsidiaries in Korea, the Cayman Islands, Hong Kong and Japan. We have engineering and marketing personnel in Korea and marketing and/or operations personnel in China, Hong Kong, Japan, and Taiwan. All of our revenue to date has been attributable to customers located outside of the United States. We anticipate that all or substantially all of our revenue will continue to be represented by sales to customers in Asia. In addition, we anticipate that any growth of our business will involve international locations, which may include locations in which the Company does not currently do business. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; • protectionist and other foreign laws and business practices that favor local competition in some countries; • difficulties in managing foreign operations, including cultural differences; • difficulty in hiring qualified management, technical sales and applications engineers; • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • inadequate local infrastructure; • multiple, conflicting and changing laws, regulations, export and import restrictions, and tax schemes; • potentially longer and more difficult collection periods and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • political and economic instability. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future sales and operations and, consequently, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable domestic and international tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could result in significant charges against income and the deferral of revenue recognition from sales to affected customers, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers’ businesses and to downturns in the economy and the industry. In addition, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable or the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As we seek to expand our customer base, it is possible that new customers may expose us to greater credit risk than our existing customers. Accounts receivable owed by foreign customers may be difficult to collect. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required and we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, which could adversely affect our operating results. We may have to record additional allowances or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions in the future, which could negatively impact our financial results. Funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible for in excess of twelve months and our auction rate securities may experience an other than temporary decline in value, which would adversely affect our income. Our marketable securities portfolio, which totals $34.3 million, includes auction rate securities (ARS) of $6.5 million (at cost) as of December 31, 2007. ARS are securities that are structured with short-term interest rate reset dates of generally less than ninety days, but with contractual maturities that can be well in excess of ten years. At the end of each reset period, which occurs every seven to thirty-five days, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par, in a modified Dutch auction process. If sell orders exceed buy orders in the auction, the auction is said to “fail.” The funds associated with failed auctions will not be accessible and a fair market value not established until a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the underlying securities have matured. As of December 31, 2007, there had been no failed auctions in our ARS, and therefore the fair value of these securities approximated their $6.5 million carrying value. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, we sold $3.5 million of ARS, but we have experienced first failed auctions in $3.0 million of ARS holdings in our portfolio in February 2008. These ARS are securitized packages of student loans whose repayment is guaranteed by the federal government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. They are issued by nonprofit state higher education organizations of Montana, Kentucky, and Mississippi and are rated Aaa by Moody’s Investor Services. Although we believe that any decline in the fair market value of these securities is temporary, there is a risk that a decline in value may ultimately be deemed to be other than temporary. In the future, should we determine that the decline in value of these auction rate securities is other than temporary, it would result in a loss being recognized in our statement of operations, which could be material. As our ability to liquidate the remaining $3 million of ARS in the next twelve months is uncertain, we have classified those securities with failed auctions as long-term investments in our consolidated balance sheet. If conditions in the credit markets deteriorate further causing auctions to fail again on these securities, the funds associated with these securities may also not be accessible for in excess of twelve months. 19 Table of Contents We may need to raise additional capital, which might not be available or which, if available, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. We believe our existing cash and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and other needs for at least the next twelve months. However, we have experienced negative cash flows in 2006 and 2007, and we expect cash flow to be negative in 2008. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, the ownership percentage of our stockholders would be reduced, and the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If we borrow money, we may incur significant interest charges, which could harm our profitability. Holders of debt would also have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors and significant costs related to litigation. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile. This could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly variations in revenue or operating results; • failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our financial performance; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of new product and service offerings, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic relationships; • publicity about our company or our products or our competitors; • announcements by portable handset manufacturers; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors’ operating results or changes in their growth rates; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the trading volume of our common stock; • any future sales of our common stock or other securities; and • stock market price and volume fluctuations of publicly-traded companies in general and semiconductor companies in particular. Investors may be unable to resell their shares of our common stock at or above their purchase price. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities, such as the lawsuit filed against us in March 2005. This securities litigation, and any other such litigation, may result in significant costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. We currently are, and in the future may be, subject to securities class action lawsuits due to decreases in our stock price. We are at risk of being subject to securities class action lawsuits if our stock price declines substantially. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. For example, on March 2, 2005, a securities class action suit was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against us, certain of our officers and our directors. The complaint alleges the defendants violated the Securities Act of 1933 by making allegedly false and misleading statements in 20 Table of Contents the registration statement and prospectus filed on September 16, 2004 for our initial public offering. A similar additional action was filed on March 11, 2005 and the court consolidated the two actions. The consolidated complaint seeks unspecified damages on behalf of a class of purchasers that acquired shares of our common stock pursuant to our registration statement and prospectus. The District Court granted defendants’ Motion to Dismiss the complaint, with prejudice, and a judgment was entered in favor of all defendants. The plaintiffs appealed the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The parties are currently awaiting the decision of the Court of Appeals, We cannot predict the outcome of this lawsuit. This securities litigation, and any other such litigation, may result in significant costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may influence actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. We believe that our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007. As a result, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations. This concentration of beneficial ownership could be disadvantageous to other stockholders whose interests are different from those of our executive officers, directors, and 5% shareholders. For example, our executive officers and directors, acting together with a few stockholders owning a relatively small percentage of our outstanding stock, could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger even if the transaction would benefit other stockholders. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, on January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” which requires that we record compensation expense in our statement of operations for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. The adoption of this new standard had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our reported earnings, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of share-based payments. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of SFAS No. 123(R) in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under SFAS No. 123(R) may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period, which could negatively affect our stock price. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, our ability to provide accurate financial statements could be impaired and any failure to maintain our internal controls and provide accurate financial statements could cause our stock price to decrease substantially. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial expense and to devote significant management resources to Section 404 compliance. The Section 404 compliance costs are relatively fixed, therefore compliance costs increase as a percentage of revenue with declines in revenue such as those we experienced during 2007. If in the future our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as 21 Table of Contents defined under Section 404, investor perceptions of our company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay transactions resulting in a change in control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors, so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 