ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described below. If any of these events occur, our business could be harmed and the trading price of our securities could decline. The following discussion of risks relating to our business should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business, prospects and the forward-looking statements contained in this report on Form 10-K. For additional information regarding forward-looking statements, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Safe Harbor Statement.” Our domestic operating entities do not generate sufficient cash flow to cover the costs related to our indebtedness, obligations to fund U.S. pension plans, asbestos-related liabilities and corporate overhead expenses. Consequently, we require cash repatriations from our non-U.S. subsidiaries in the normal course of our operations to meet our domestic cash needs. Our ability to repatriate funds from our non-U.S. subsidiaries is limited by a number of factors. Accordingly, we are limited in our ability to use the funds held by our non- U.S. subsidiaries for working capital purposes, to repay debt or to satisfy other obligations. As of December 30, 2005, we had corporate debt of $151,100, limited recourse project specific debt of $100,100, and capital lease obligations of $64,200. The corporate debt must be serviced with cash repatriations from our operating subsidiaries and/or from the proceeds of financings. In addition, as of December 30, 2005, we had $551,900 of undrawn letters of credit, bank guarantees and surety bonds issued and outstanding, $16,400 of which were cash collateralized. As of December 30, 2005, we had cash, cash equivalents, short- term investments and restricted cash of $372,700, of which $319,800 was held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Our current 2006 forecast assumes total cash repatriation from our non-U.S. subsidiaries of $101,600 from royalties, management fees, intercompany loans, debt service on intercompany loans and/or dividends. There can be no assurance that the forecasted foreign cash repatriation will occur as our non-U.S. subsidiaries need to keep certain amounts available for working capital purposes, to pay known liabilities, and for other general corporate purposes. Such amounts exceed, and are not directly comparable to, the foreign component of restricted cash. In addition, certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are parties to loan, bank guarantee and other agreements that contain covenants, and are subject to statutory requirements in their jurisdictions of organization that restrict the amount of funds that such subsidiaries may distribute. The repatriation of funds may also subject those funds to taxation. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to repatriate and utilize funds held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries in the amount forecasted above. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. Although we have no material weaknesses as of December 30, 2005, we have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the past. We cannot assure that we will avoid a material weakness in the future. If we have another material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, it could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner. Our international operations involve risks that may limit or disrupt operations, limit repatriation of cash, increase foreign taxation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We have substantial international operations that are conducted through foreign and domestic subsidiaries, as well as through agreements with foreign joint-venture partners. Our international operations accounted for approximately 80% of our fiscal year 2005 operating revenues and substantially all of our operating cash flow. We have international operations in Europe, Asia, Africa and South America. Our foreign operations are subject to risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, including: • uncertain political, legal and economic environments; • potential incompatibility with foreign joint venture partners; 7 Back to Contents • foreign currency controls and fluctuations; • energy prices and availability; • terrorist attacks; • the imposition of additional governmental controls and regulations; • war and civil disturbances; and • labor problems. Because of these risks, our international operations may be limited, or disrupted; we may lose contract rights; our foreign taxation may be increased; or we may be limited in repatriating earnings. In addition, in some cases, applicable law and joint venture or other agreements may provide that each joint venture partner is jointly and severally liable for all liabilities of the venture. These potential events and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our debt levels and significant interest payment obligations could limit the funds we have available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, acquisitions and other business purposes, which could adversely impact our business. As of December 30, 2005, we had corporate debt of $151,100, limited recourse project specific debt of $100,100, and capital lease obligations of $64,200. We may not have sufficient funds available to pay all of the debt upon maturity. Over the last five years, we have been required to allocate a significant portion of our cash flow to pay interest on debt. After paying interest on debt, we have fewer funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other business purposes. This could limit our ability to respond to changing market conditions, limit our ability to expand through acquisitions, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. Our estimated 2006 cash requirements for interest and principal debt service are approximately $50,700. Certain of our various debt agreements impose significant financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking certain corporate actions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our senior credit agreement imposes significant financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to incur indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments and sell assets. Failure to comply with these covenants may allow lenders to elect to accelerate the repayment dates under this debt. We may not be able to repay such obligations if accelerated. Our failure to repay such obligations under our senior credit agreement and our other debt obligations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and result in defaults under the terms of our other indebtedness. One of our subsidiaries is a party to a contract to construct a nuclear storage facility for a U.S. government agency that would require us to fund or obtain third-party project financing in excess of $100,000 and to post a performance bond in excess of $100,000 if the contract is not restructured or terminated. The inability to restructure or terminate the contract would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We have completed the first phase of this contract and are in the second phase. We requested clarification of certain technical specifications and detailed guidance from the government agency regarding government agency-directed changes to the project scope. The government agency failed to provide such clarification and guidance but nevertheless directed us to proceed with the third phase of the contract in late July 2005. The third phase includes the procurement of long-lead time items and construction, and it has an approximate three-year schedule. The contract requires us to fund the construction cost of the project during the third phase, which cost is estimated to exceed $114,000 and is subject to escalation. The contract also requires us to provide a performance bond for the full amount of the construction cost. 8 Back to Contents In February 2006, we entered into a final modification of the contract with the government agency. Under the final modification, the contract will be terminated on a no-fault basis once we transfer to the government agency certain licenses, permits, contracts, drawings and other documents related to the project. More specifically, the final modification provides that if and when we transfer to the government agency the licenses, permits, contracts, drawings, and other documents related to the project, we will be released from further obligations to perform the contract, and we and the government agency will exchange broad releases of claims related to the project. Neither party is required to pay the other any money pursuant to the final modification. We and the government agency are in the process of arranging the necessary transfers, but they are not yet complete. However, we expect to be able to complete the required transfers. Under the final modification, the target date for completion of the transfers and the related exchange of releases is March 6, 2006. If we fail to complete the transfers, we will not be released from the contract and would remain legally obligated to perform the contract. In such case, we would seek third-party financing to fund the majority of the construction costs, but there can be no assurance we will secure such financing on acceptable terms, or at all. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the required performance bond. If the necessary financing and bonding cannot be obtained, it is unlikely that we will be able to perform our construction obligations under the contract. If we fail to perform our obligations under the contract, and as a result the government agency terminates the contract, and thereafter the government agency re-bids the contract under substantially the same terms, and if the resulting cost is greater than it would have been under the existing terms with us, the government agency may seek to hold us liable for this difference. This could result in a claim against us in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We presently are unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could occur as a result of any such claim. An equipment issue at one of our power plants is currently preventing the plant from operating at full capacity. If the issue is not resolved in a timely manner, there could be an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow. One of our subsidiaries owns a majority interest in a power plant located in Martinez, California. An equipment issue led to the suspension of operations at the plant for several days in February 2006. Following analyses and the implementation of changes in the way the plant is operated, operations were resumed at reduced capacity pending further resolution of the issue. If the issue is not resolved in a timely manner, there could be an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow. Also, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources,” for a further discussion of events related to this power plant. We face limitations on our ability to obtain new letters of credit, bank guarantees and performance bonds from banks and surety on the same terms as we have historically. If we were unable to obtain letters of credit, bank guarantees, or performance bonds on reasonable terms, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow would be materially adversely affected. It is customary in the industries in which we operate to provide letters of credit, bank guarantees or performance bonds in favor of clients to secure obligations under contracts. We may not be able to continue obtaining new letters of credit, bank guarantees, and performance bonds in sufficient quantities to match our business requirements. If our financial condition deteriorates, we may also be required to provide cash collateral or other security to maintain existing letters of credit, bank guarantees and performance bonds. If this occurs, our ability to perform under existing contracts may be adversely affected. Our current and future lump-sum or fixed-price contracts and other shared risk contracts may result in significant losses if costs are greater than anticipated. Some of our contracts are lump-sum contracts and other shared-risk contracts that are inherently risky because we agree to the selling price of the project at the time we enter into the contracts. The selling price is based on estimates of the ultimate cost of the contract and we assume substantially all of the risks associated with completing the project, as well as the post-completion warranty obligations. In 2004 and 9 Back to Contents 2003, we recorded charges of approximately $42,200 and $30,800, respectively, relating to underestimated costs on lump-sum contracts. We assume the project’s technical risk, meaning that we must tailor products and systems to satisfy the technical requirements of a project even though, at the time the project is awarded, we may not have previously produced such a product or system. We also assume the risks related to revenue, cost and gross profit realized on such contracts that can vary, sometimes substantially, from the original projections due to changes in a variety of other factors, including but not limited to: • unanticipated technical problems with the equipment being supplied or developed by us, which may require that we spend our own money to remedy the problem; • changes in the costs of components, materials or labor; • difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals; • changes in local laws and regulations; • changes in local labor conditions; • project modifications creating unanticipated costs; • delays caused by local weather conditions; and • our suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform. These risks are exacerbated as most projects are long-term that result in increased risk that the circumstances upon which we based our original bid will change in a manner that increases our costs. In addition, we sometimes bear the risk of delays caused by unexpected conditions or events. Long-term, fixed-price projects often make us subject to penalties if portions of the project are not completed in accordance with agreed-upon time limits. Therefore, significant losses can result from performing large, long-term projects on a lump-sum basis. These losses may be material and could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may increase the size and number of lump-sum turnkey contracts, sometimes in countries where we have limited previous experience. We may bid for and enter into such contracts through partnerships or joint ventures with third parties that have greater bonding capacity than we do. This would increase our ability to bid for the contracts. Entering into these partnerships or joint ventures will expose us to credit and performance risks of those third-party partners, which could have a negative impact on our business and our results of operations if these parties fail to perform under the arrangements. We also perform government contracts containing fixed labor rates that are subject to audit by governmental agencies. These audits can occur several years after completion of the project and could result in claims for reimbursement from us. These reimbursement amounts could be materially different than estimated, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flow. We may have high working capital requirements in the near term and we may have difficulty obtaining financing, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our business requires a significant amount of working capital and our U.S. operations do not generate sufficient cash flow to cover the costs related to our indebtedness, obligations to fund U.S. pension plans, asbestos-related liabilities and corporate overhead expenses. In some cases, significant amounts of working capital are required to finance the purchase of materials and performance of engineering, construction and other work on projects before payment is received from customers. In some cases, we are contractually obligated to our customers to fund working capital on our projects. Moreover, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future to satisfy our working capital needs. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including insufficient cash flow to meet our required debt payments and the inability to meet our credit facility covenants. 10 Back to Contents Our working capital requirements may increase if we are required to give our customers more favorable payment terms under contracts in order to compete successfully for certain projects. These terms may include reduced advance payments from customers and payment schedules from customers that are less favorable to us. In addition, our working capital requirements have increased in recent years because we have had to advance funds to complete projects under lump-sum contracts and have been involved in lengthy arbitration or litigation proceedings to recover these amounts from our customers. All of these factors may result, or have resulted, in increases in the amount of contracts in process and receivables and short-term borrowings. Continued increases in working capital requirements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Projects included in our backlog may be delayed or cancelled, which could materially harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The dollar amount of backlog does not necessarily indicate future earnings related to the performance of that work. Backlog refers to expected future revenues under signed contracts and legally binding letters of intent that we have determined are likely to be performed. Backlog projects represent only business that is considered firm, although cancellations or scope adjustments may occur. Most contracts require our clients to pay for work performed to the point of contract cancellation. Due to changes in project scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be performed. In addition, even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us. Any material delay, cancellation or payment default could materially harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Backlog as of December 30, 2005 increased 80% as compared to year-end 2004. However, backlog may decline in the future. The number and cost of our current and future asbestos claims in the United States could be substantially higher than we have estimated and the timing of payment of claims could be sooner than we have estimated, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Some of our subsidiaries are named as defendants in numerous lawsuits and out-of-court administrative claims pending in the United States in which the plaintiffs claim damages for alleged bodily injury or death arising from exposure to asbestos in connection with work performed, or heat exchange devices assembled, installed and/or sold, by our subsidiaries. We expect these subsidiaries to be named as defendants in similar suits and claims brought in the future. For purposes of our financial statements, we have estimated the indemnity and defense costs to be incurred in resolving pending and forecasted domestic claims through year-end 2020. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the actual number of future claims brought against us and the cost of resolving these claims could be substantially higher than our estimates. Some of the factors that may result in the costs of these claims being higher than our current estimates include: • the rate at which new claims are filed; • the number of new claimants; • changes in the mix of diseases alleged to be suffered by the claimants, such as type of cancer, asbestosis or other illness; • increases in legal fees or other defense costs associated with these claims; • increases in indemnity payments; • decreases in the proportion of claims dismissed with zero indemnity payments; • indemnity payments being required to be made sooner than expected; • bankruptcies of other asbestos defendants, causing a reduction in the number of available solvent defendants and thereby increasing the number of claims and the size of demands against our subsidiaries; 11 Back to Contents • adverse jury verdicts requiring us to pay damages in amounts greater than we expect to pay in settlement; • changes in legislative or judicial standards that make successful defense of claims against our subsidiaries more difficult; or • enactment of legislation requiring us to contribute amounts to a national settlement trust in excess of our expected net liability, after insurance, in the tort system. The total liability recorded on our balance sheet is based on estimated indemnity and defense costs expected to be incurred through year-end 2020. We believe that it is likely that there will be new claims filed after 2020, but in light of uncertainties inherent in long-term forecasts, we do not believe that we can reasonably estimate the indemnity and defense costs that might be incurred after 2020. Our forecast contemplates that the number of new claims requiring indemnity will decline from year to year. Failure of future claims to decline as we expect may result in our aggregate liability for asbestos claims being higher than estimated. In 2004, we retained, through counsel, Analysis Research Planning Corporation (“ARPC”), nationally recognized consultants in projecting asbestos liabilities, to work with us to estimate the amounts of asbestos-related indemnity and defense costs for the following 15-year period. We consult ARPC at the end of each quarter regarding this estimate. ARPC reviewed our asbestos indemnity payments, defense costs and claims activity during 2005 and compared them to our 15-year forecast prepared in 2004. In 2005, the number of mesothelioma claims filed against us was significantly higher than forecast. In addition, the average indemnity amounts we paid for both mesothelioma and non-mesothelioma claims were significantly higher than forecast. These factors increase indemnity costs but were partially offset by significantly higher than forecasted rates of dismissals of claims with zero indemnity payments. Based on their review of 2005 activity, ARPC recommended that the assumptions used to estimate our future asbestos liability over the next 15 years be updated as of year-end 2005. Accordingly, we worked with ARPC to develop a revised estimate of our indemnity and defense costs through 2020. At year-end, we increased our liability for domestic asbestos indemnity and defense costs through 2020 to $516,000, which brings our liability to a level consistent with ARPC’s reasonable best estimate. In connection with updating our estimated asbestos liability and asset, we recorded a loss of $113,700 in the fourth quarter of 2005. Our forecast of the number of future claims is based, in part, on a regression model, which employs the statistical analysis of our historical claims data to generate a trend line for future claims and, in part, on an analysis of future disease incidence. Although we believe this forecast method is reasonable, other forecast methods that attempt to estimate the population of living persons who could claim they were exposed to asbestos at worksites where our subsidiaries performed work or sold equipment, could also be used and might project higher numbers of future claims than our forecast. As occurred in 2005, the actual number of future claims, the mix of disease types and the amounts of indemnity and defense costs may exceed our current estimates. We periodically update our forecasts to take into consideration recent claims experience and other developments, such as legislation, that may affect our estimates of future asbestos-related costs. The announcement of increases to asbestos liabilities as a result of revised forecasts, adverse jury verdicts or other negative developments involving asbestos litigation or insurance recoveries may cause the value or trading prices of our securities to decrease significantly. These negative developments could also negatively impact our liquidity, cause us to default under covenants in our indebtedness, cause our credit ratings to be downgraded, restrict our access to capital markets or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The amount and timing of insurance recoveries of our asbestos-related costs in the United States is uncertain. The failure to obtain insurance recoveries could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We believe that a significant portion of our subsidiaries’ liability and defense costs for asbestos claims will be covered by insurance. Since 2003, we have used an outside consultant to assist us in the estimation of our asbestos insurance asset. In 2005, we retained, through counsel, Peterson Risk Consulting, nationally 12 Back to Contents recognized experts in the estimation of insurance recoveries, to review our prior estimate of the value of the unsettled insurance asset and assist in the current estimation of our primary and unsettled asbestos insurance asset. Based on insurance policy data, historical claim data, future liability estimate, and allocation methodology assumptions we provided them, Peterson Risk Consulting provided an analysis of the unsettled insurance asset. We utilized that analysis to determine our estimate of the value of the unsettled insurance asset. Our consolidated balance sheet as of December 30, 2005, includes as an asset an aggregate of $320,000, which represents our best estimate of actual and probable insurance recoveries relating to our domestic liability for pending and estimated future asbestos claims through year-end 2020, $24,200 of this asset is recorded in accounts and notes receivable-other and $295,800 is recorded as asbestos-related insurance recovery receivable. The amount recorded within accounts and notes receivable-other reflects amounts due in 2006 under executed settlement agreements with insurers and does not include any estimate for future settlements. The amount recorded as asbestos-related insurance recovery receivable includes an estimate of recoveries from unsettled insurers, based upon assumptions relating to cost allocation, the application of New York law, and other factors as well as an estimate of the amount of recoveries under existing settlements with other insurers. On February 13, 2001, litigation was commenced against certain of our subsidiaries by certain of our insurers seeking to recover from other insurers amounts previously paid by them and to adjudicate their rights and responsibilities under our subsidiaries’ insurance policies. As of December 30, 2005, we estimate the value of our asbestos insurance asset contested by our subsidiaries’ insurers in ongoing litigation as $115,000. While this litigation is pending, we have had to cover a substantial portion of our settlement payments and defense costs out of our cash flow. Our subsidiaries have entered into several settlement agreements calling for certain insurers to make lump-sum payments, as well as payments over time, for use by our subsidiaries to fund asbestos-related indemnity and defense costs and, in certain cases, for reimbursement for portions of out-of-pocket costs previously incurred. We intend to continue to attempt to negotiate additional settlements where achievable on a reasonable basis in order to minimize the amount of future costs that we would be required to fund out of our cash flow. If we cannot achieve settlements in amounts necessary to cover our future costs, we may continue to fund a portion of future costs, which may reduce our cash flow and our working capital, and may adversely affect our liquidity. If we cannot achieve settlements through negotiations, the ability of our subsidiaries to ultimately recover a substantial portion of asbestos-related costs from insurance is dependent on successful resolution of outstanding coverage issues in the insurance litigation described above related to their insurance policies. These issues include: • the law applicable to the subsidiaries’ insurance policies; • disputes regarding allocations of liabilities among our subsidiaries and the insurers; • the effect of deductibles and policy limits on available insurance coverage; • the characterization of asbestos claims brought against our subsidiaries as product related or non-product related; and • other defenses raised by one or more of the insurers either to the scope of their obligations under the policies or timing of their payments. An adverse outcome in the pending insurance litigation described above could significantly limit our insurance recoveries. However, a favorable outcome in all or part of the litigation could significantly increase available insurance recoveries above our current estimate. In this regard, on January 10, 2005, a New York state trial court entered an order finding that New York, rather than New Jersey, law applies in the litigation described above regarding the allocation of liability for asbestos-related personal injury claims among our subsidiaries and their various insurers. Prior to entry of the New York court order, we had calculated estimated insurance recoveries applying New Jersey law. The application of New York, rather than New Jersey, law would result in our subsidiaries realizing lower insurance recoveries. Thus, as a result of this decision and other factors, we estimated our insurance asset assuming application of New York law and we 13 Back to Contents recorded a charge to earnings in the fourth quarter of 2004 of $75,800 and reduced the year-end 2004 carrying value of our probable insurance recoveries by a similar amount. Unless this decision is reversed, we expect that we will be required to fund a portion of our asbestos liabilities from our own cash. The amount and timing of these funding requirements will be dependent upon, among other things, litigated or negotiated resolution of the various disputes with our insurers with whom we have not yet settled. On February 16, 2005, our subsidiaries filed an appeal of this decision to a higher court. Our appeal is currently pending and there can be no assurances as to the timing or the outcome. Even if the coverage litigation is resolved in a manner favorable to us, our recoveries may be limited by insolvencies among our insurers. We have not assumed recovery in the estimate of our asbestos insurance recovery asset from any of our currently insolvent insurers. Other insurers may become insolvent in the future and our insurers also may fail to reimburse amounts owed to us on a timely basis. Any failure to realize expected insurance recoveries, and any delays in receiving from our insurers amounts owed to our subsidiaries, will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. The pending coverage litigation and active negotiations with our insurers is continuing. We funded $12,400 of asbestos liabilities from our cash flow during 2005. While we expect active settlement negotiations with unsettled insurers to continue during 2006, we may determine that the appropriate course of action is to continue to fund a portion of our asbestos liabilities during 2006 while the coverage litigation and settlement negotiations continue. If we elect to continue this course of action, we may spend from our cash flow up to $51,000 in 2006. This estimate assumes no additional settlements with insurance companies and is considered in our liquidity forecast. Proposed national asbestos trust fund legislation could require us to pay amounts in excess of current estimates of our net asbestos liability, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and long-term cash flow. Although no specific federal legislation has been enacted by the United States Congress, a possibility exists that a bill entitled Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2005, which has been introduced in both houses of Congress in Washington D.C., may become law. This bill was reported out of the Senate Judiciary Committee and was brought to the Senate floor in February 2006, but was defeated on a procedural issue without a vote on the merits. Because we have been named as a defendant in a significant number of asbestos-related bodily injury claims we would be a “defendant participant” in a proposed national trust fund should such enabling legislation become law. If this proposed legislation is enacted into law in its current form, substantially all current and future asbestos claims will be removed from the tort system and claimants’ exclusive remedy will be payment from a national trust fund. This proposed legislation, should it become law in its present form, would alter our payment obligations. We, as a defendant participant in the fund, would be required to make annual contributions to this fund for a period of up to 30 years. While the exact amount that we may be required to pay over this period of time is unknown, under the form of the bill in which it was debated in the Senate, the amount would be at least $19,250 per year for 30 years, none of which would be covered by insurance. This amount significantly exceeds costs that we expect to incur, net of insurance, to defend and resolve claims in the tort system. This proposed legislation, should it become law in its present form, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and long-term cash flow. The number of asbestos-related claims received by our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom has recently increased. These claims are covered by insurance policies and proceeds from the policies are paid directly to the plaintiffs. The timing and amount of asbestos claims that may be made in the future, the financial solvency of the insurers, and the amount that may be paid to resolve the claims, are uncertain. The insurance carriers’ failure to make payments due under the policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Some of our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom have received claims alleging personal injury arising from exposure to asbestos in connection with work performed, or heat exchange devices assembled, installed and/or sold, by our subsidiaries. The total number of claims received to date in the United Kingdom is 747 of which 306 remained open at December 30, 2005. We expect these subsidiaries to be named as defendants in 14 Back to Contents similar suits and claims brought in the future. To date, insurance policies have provided coverage for substantially all of the costs incurred in connection with resolving asbestos claims in the United Kingdom. Our ability to continue to recover under these insurance policies is dependant upon, among other things, the timing and amount of asbestos claims that may be made in the future, the financial solvency of our insurers, and the amount that may be paid to resolve the claims. These factors could significantly limit insurance recoveries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure by us to successfully defend against claims made against us by project owners or by our project subcontractors, or failure by us to recover adequately on claims made against project owners, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In the ordinary course of business, claims involving project owners and subcontractors are brought against us and by us in connection with our project contracts. Claims brought against us include back charges for alleged defective or incomplete work, breaches of warranty and/or late completion of the project work, and claims for canceled projects. The claims and back charges can involve actual damages, as well as contractually agreed upon liquidated sums. If we were found to be liable on any of the project claims against us, we would have to incur a write-down or charge against earnings, to the extent a reserve had not been established for the matter in our accounts. Claims brought by us against project owners include claims for additional costs incurred in excess of current contract provisions arising out of project delays and changes in the initial scope of work. Claims between us and our subcontractors and vendors include claims like any of those described above. These project claims, if not resolved through negotiation, are often subject to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration proceedings. We have used significant additional working capital in projects with cost overruns pending the resolution of our claims against project owners. Amounts ultimately realized on project claims by us could differ materially from the balances included in our financial statements, resulting in a charge against earnings to the extent profit has already been accrued on a project contract. Charges and write-downs associated with claims brought against us and by us could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Because operations are concentrated in four particular industries, we may be adversely impacted by economic or other developments in these industries. We derive a significant amount of revenues from services provided to corporations that are concentrated in four industries: power, oil and gas, chemical/petrochemical and pharmaceuticals. Unfavorable economic or other developments in one or more of these industries could adversely affect our clients and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our failure to successfully manage geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and comply with industry standards and procedures. We operate in more than 50 countries around the world, with approximately 7,800, or 87%, of our employees located outside of the United States. In order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. In addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with the laws of multiple countries. Failure to successfully manage geographically-diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and comply with industry standards and procedures. We may lose business to competitors who have greater financial resources. We are engaged in highly competitive businesses in which customer contracts are often awarded through bidding processes based on price and the acceptance of certain risks. We compete with other general and specialty contractors, both foreign and domestic, including large international contractors and small local contractors. Some competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do and may have significantly more favorable leverage ratios. Because financial strength is a factor in deciding whether to grant a contract, our competitors’ more favorable leverage ratios give them a competitive advantage and could prevent us from obtaining contracts for which we have bid. 15 Back to Contents A failure by us to attract and retain qualified personnel, joint venture partners, advisors and subcontractors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our ability to attract and retain qualified engineers and other professional personnel, as well as joint-venture partners, advisors and subcontractors, will be an important factor in determining our future success. The market for these professionals, joint-venture partners, advisors and subcontractors is competitive, and we may not be successful in efforts to attract and retain these professionals, joint-venture partners, advisors and subcontractors. In addition, success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain skilled laborers. Failure to attract or retain these workers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may have to incur significant costs and penalties that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our operations are subject to U.S., European and other laws and regulations governing the generation, management, and use of regulated materials, the discharge of materials into the environment, the remediation of environmental contamination, or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws include U.S. federal statutes, such as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act and similar state and local laws, and European laws and regulations including those promulgated under the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Directive issued by the European Union in 1996, and the 1991 directive dealing with waste and hazardous waste and laws and regulations similar to those in other countries in which we operate. Both our E&C Group and Global Power Group make use of and produce as wastes or byproducts substances that are considered to be hazardous under the laws and regulations referred to above. We may be subject to liabilities for environmental contamination as an owner or operator of a facility or as a generator of hazardous substances without regard to negligence or fault, and we are subject to additional liabilities if we do not comply with applicable laws regulating such hazardous substances, and, in either case, such liabilities can be substantial. We may be subject to significant costs, fines and penalties and/or compliance orders if we do not comply with environmental laws and regulations including those referred to above. Some environmental laws, including CERCLA, provide for joint and several strict liabilities for remediation of releases of hazardous substances, which could result in a liability for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault. These laws and regulations and common laws principles could expose us to liability arising out of the conduct of current and past operations or conditions, including those associated with formerly owned or operated properties caused by us or others, or for acts by us or others which were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. In some cases, we have assumed contractual indemnification obligations for environmental liabilities associated with some formerly owned properties. Additionally, we may be subject to claims alleging personal injury, property damage or natural resource damages as a result of alleged exposure to or contamination by hazardous substances. The ongoing costs of complying with existing environmental laws and regulations can be substantial. Changes in the environmental laws and regulations, remediation obligations, enforcement actions or claims for damages to persons, property, natural resources or the environment, could result in material costs and liabilities. You should read Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K for a summary of our material environmental proceedings and litigation. We rely on our information systems in our operations. Failure to protect these systems against security breaches could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, if these systems fail or become unavailable for any significant period of time, our business could be harmed. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on computer hardware and software systems. We rely on our information systems to communicate and store customer and project information, to track new bookings and inventory, to procure materials and equipment for projects, to perform computerized design and engineering drawings, to perform project scheduling and cost tracking, to maintain Internet and extranet web 16 Back to Contents sites, to maintain our proprietary research and development data and to effectively manage accounting and financial functions. Our information systems are comprised of multiple networks. Information systems are vulnerable to security breaches by computer hackers and cyber terrorists. We rely on industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain confidential and proprietary information maintained on our information systems. However, these measures and technology may not always be adequate to properly prevent security breaches. Moreover, advances in computing capabilities or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect our systems. In February 2005, we experienced a security breach in our computer systems that service our North American operations. Although it does not appear that our primary financial information system was accessed, or that the integrity of our financial information was compromised, we cannot ensure that this is the case. Although we believe we have taken the steps needed to resolve this breach, compromises of our security systems could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Further, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary or confidential information, which could adversely affect our ability to effectively compete for new business or could cause interruptions in our operations. Because of the nature and magnitude of our projects, we may be the target of cyber terrorists or be the subject of industrial espionage. Although we maintain property and liability insurance, the insurance may not cover potential losses and/or claims of this type or may not be adequate to cover all related costs or liability that may be incurred. As a part of our ongoing efforts to protect our systems against future breaches, we have hired a full-time information technology security manager. In addition, the unavailability of the information systems or the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated could disrupt our business and could result in decreased performance and increased overhead costs, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. Our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; • terrorist attacks; • computer virus attacks; • operator negligence; • power loss; • the failure to properly integrate our various networks that comprise our global information systems; and • computer systems, Internet, or data network failure. Any significant interruption or failure of our information systems or any significant breach of security could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably if our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our proprietary products. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights to the technologies and know-how used in our proprietary products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of trade secret, unfair competition and similar laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, there is no assurance that third parties will not be able to design around the patents. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot provide assurance that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or 17 Back to Contents otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, independent distributors and consultants. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop such trade secrets or other proprietary information. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more directly with us, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. We also hold licenses from third parties that are necessary to utilize certain technologies used in the design and manufacturing of some of our products. The loss of such licenses would prevent us from manufacturing and selling these products, which could harm our business. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions provide for: • The board of directors to be divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms. Directors can be removed from office only for cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the issued shares generally entitled to vote. The board of directors does not have the power to remove directors. Vacancies on the board of directors may only be filled by the remaining directors. Each of these provisions can delay a shareholder from obtaining majority representation on the board of directors. • Any amendment to the bye-law limiting the removal of directors to be approved by the board of directors and the affirmative vote of the holders of three quarters of the issued shares entitled to vote at general meetings. • The board of directors to consist of not less than three nor more than 20 persons, the exact number to be set from time to time by a majority of the whole board of directors. Accordingly, the board of directors, and not the shareholders, has the authority to determine the number of directors and could delay any shareholder from obtaining majority representation on the board of directors by enlarging the board of directors and filling the new vacancies with its own nominees until a general meeting at which directors are to be appointed. • Restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated. A shareholder notice to nominate an individual for election as a director must be received no less than 120 calendar days prior to the anniversary of the date on which Foster Wheeler Ltd. first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year’s annual meeting. • Restrictions on the time period in which shareholder proposals may be submitted. To be timely for inclusion in Foster Wheeler Ltd.’s proxy statement, a shareholder’s notice for a shareholder proposal must be received not less than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date on which Foster Wheeler Ltd. first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year’s annual general meeting. To be timely for consideration at the annual meeting of shareholders, a shareholder’s notice must be received no less than 45 days prior to the anniversary of the date on which Foster Wheeler Ltd. first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year’s annual meeting. • The board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval. The board of directors could authorize the issuance of preference shares with terms and conditions that could discourage a takeover or other transaction that holders of some or a majority of the common shares might believe to be in their best interests or in which holders might receive a premium for their shares over the then market price of the shares. 18 Back to Contents • A general prohibition on “business combinations” between Foster Wheeler Ltd. and an “interested member.” Specifically, “business combinations” between an interested member and Foster Wheeler Ltd. are prohibited for a period of five years after the time the interested member acquires 20% or more of the outstanding voting shares, unless the business combination or the transaction resulting in the person becoming an interested member is approved by the board of directors prior to the date the interested member acquires 20% or more of the outstanding voting shares. “Business combinations” is defined broadly to include amalgamations or consolidations with Foster Wheeler Ltd. or its subsidiaries, sales or other dispositions of assets having an aggregate value of 10% or more of the aggregate market value of the consolidated assets, aggregate market value of all outstanding shares, consolidated earning power or consolidated net income of Foster Wheeler Ltd., adoption of a plan or proposal for liquidation and most transactions that would increase the interested member’s proportionate share ownership in Foster Wheeler Ltd. “Interested member” is defined as a person who, together with any affiliates and/or associates of that person, beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the issued voting shares of Foster Wheeler Ltd. • Any matter submitted to the shareholders at a meeting called on the requisition of shareholders holding not less than one-tenth of the paid-up voting shares of Foster Wheeler Ltd. to be approved by the affirmative vote of all of the shares eligible to vote at such meeting. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. Foster Wheeler Ltd. is a Bermuda exempted company. As a result, the rights of shareholders will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. It may be difficult for investors to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or our directors based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. Uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. 19 Back to Contents 