Item 1A. Risk Factors The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 contains certain safe harbor provisions regarding forward-looking statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other information provided by us or statements made by our directors, officers or employees from time to time, may contain "forward-looking" statements and information, which involve risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially. Statements indicating that we "expect," "estimate," "believe," "are planning" or "plan to" are forward-looking, as are other statements concerning future financial results, product offerings or other events that have not yet occurred. There are several important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements. Such factors include those described below. Although we have sought to identify the most significant risks to our business, we cannot predict whether, or to what extent, any of such risks may be realized. We also cannot assure that we have identified all possible issues which we might face. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements that we make. Uncertain prospects for the global economy could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we have experienced seven sequential quarters of revenue growth, we are unable to predict whether the global economy will continue to recover, and there is no certainty that our business will continue to grow. These uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Uncertain economic conditions may lead consumers and businesses to reduce or postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. The inability of customers to obtain credit could negatively affect our revenue and our ability to collect receivables. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, independent sales representatives or distributor could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. If uncertain economic conditions continue or deteriorate, we may recognize charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets. These uncertainties could have a material adverse impact on our business, our 22 Table of Contents ability to achieve targeted results of operations and our financial condition as a result of, among other things: •reduced demand for our products; •increased risk of order cancellations or delays; •increased pressure on the prices for our products; •greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and •risks to our liquidity, including the possibility that we might not have access to our cash and short-term investments when needed. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict accurately and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. As a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. We operate in a highly dynamic industry and our future results could be subject to significant fluctuations, particularly on a quarterly basis. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. Although some of our customers, such as those who serve the military and space industries, place long-term orders with us or provide us with forecasts of their future requirements for our products, a significant percentage of our revenue in each quarter is dependent on sales that are booked and shipped during that quarter, typically attributable to a large number of orders from diverse customers and markets, which we refer to as our turns business. Accurately forecasting our turns business and our total revenue in any quarter is difficult. If our operating results do not meet our publicly stated guidance, if any, or the expectations of investors, our stock price may decline. Additional factors that can contribute to fluctuations in our operating results include: •changes in demand for our products due to global economic conditions; •changes in our product mix or customer mix; •the increase, reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders; •the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; •the rate at which our present and future customers adopt our technologies in our target markets; •the timing and success of the introduction of new products and technologies by us and our competitors, and the acceptance of our new products by our customers; •the gain or loss of one or more key customers; •the availability, cost and quality of materials and components that we purchase from third-party vendors and any problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products; •the quality of our products and any remediation costs; and •changes in our effective tax rate. Due to these and other factors, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our historical operating results should not be relied upon as accurate indicators of our future performance. 23 Table of Contents Our financial results are exposed to the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. The recent global recession reduced demand in the semiconductor industry as well as numerous other industries. In addition to being subject to such broad, macroeconomic conditions, the semiconductor industry is particularly cyclical and has historically experienced significant fluctuations in supply and demand, resulting in product overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices, which may occur even during periods of growth in the broader economy. These conditions have sometimes lasted for extended periods of time. Downturns in many sectors of the electronic systems industry have in the past contributed to weak demand for semiconductor products. We experienced negative growth during periods of weak demand in the past, and our business may be adversely impacted by any downturns in the future. Future downturns in the electronic systems industry could adversely impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our gross margin fluctuates from period to period, which affects our results of operations. Our gross margin has fluctuated on a quarterly basis. For example, our quarterly gross margin since the first quarter of 2006 has ranged from a low of 70.1% to a high of 74.8%. A number of factors can cause our gross margin to fluctuate from period to period. Our gross margin in any period is significantly affected by industry demand and the intensity of competition in the markets into which we sell our products. Our gross margin is also significantly affected by product mix, that is, the percentage of our revenue in that period that is attributable to higher or lower margin products, and by pricing, including fluctuations in the relative proportion of high volume orders, on which we offer higher discounts. Additional factors affecting our gross margin include changes in the cost of wafers and materials, the timing of indirect costs for pre-production masks and evaluation materials, project cost variations on customer-funded contracts, changes in overhead absorption rates and other manufacturing efficiencies, and other factors, some of which are not under our control. Our margin also can be substantially affected by changes in our manufacturing yields. Our yields depend on many factors that we control, such as product design and the effectiveness of our own assembly and test operations, but they are also affected by the activities of third parties, such as the foundries and packaging subcontractors that supply us with critical materials and services, that are beyond our control. As a result of these or other factors, we may be unable to maintain or increase our gross margin in future periods. A significant decrease in our gross margin would affect our profitability and likely have an adverse effect on our stock price. If we fail to develop new products that achieve market acceptance or fail to introduce new products that enable us to address additional markets, our operating results could be adversely affected. The markets for our products are characterized by frequent new product introductions and changes in product and process technologies. The future success of our business and continued growth in our revenue will depend on our ability to develop new products for existing and new markets, introduce these products in a cost-effective and timely manner and have our products designed into the products of OEMs. The development of new high performance semiconductor ICs, modules, subsystems and instrumentation is highly complex, and from time to time we may experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products or fail to efficiently manufacture such products in the early production phase. As the complexity and degree of integration of our products increases, maintaining or increasing our historical rate of new product introductions will become increasingly challenging. Our ability to successfully develop, manufacture, introduce and deliver new types of high performance semiconductor ICs, modules, subsystems and instrumentation will depend on various factors, including our ability to: •attract and retain skilled engineering personnel; •accurately understand market requirements; 24 Table of Contents •complete and introduce new products; •achieve design wins with our customers; •obtain adequate supplies of materials and components that meet our quality requirements; and •achieve adequate manufacturing yields. Furthermore, a newly introduced standard product generally has little immediate impact on our revenue. A new standard product may not generate meaningful revenue for two or more years, if ever. In the meantime, we will have incurred expenses to design and produce the product, and we may not recover these expenses if demand for the product fails to reach forecasted levels. We depend on third-party suppliers, including our foundries and packaging subcontractors, for components, materials and services that are critical to the manufacture of our products, which makes us susceptible to shortages, price fluctuations and quality risks that could adversely affect our operating results. We purchase a number of the key components and materials used in our products from sole source suppliers. For example, we obtain all the semiconductor wafers used in our products from third-party wafer fabrication facilities, known as foundries. Our principal third-party foundries include Cobham in Virginia, Global Communications Semiconductors in California, IBM in Vermont, Jazz Semiconductor in California, Northrop Grumman in California, Telefunken Semiconductors in Germany, TriQuint Semiconductor in Oregon, TSMC in Taiwan, UMS in France and WIN Semiconductors in Taiwan. We typically rely on a single foundry for the production of the wafer used in a particular product. Of our foundries, TriQuint Semiconductor, UMS and, (to a lesser extent), Northrop Grumman, are also manufacturers of semiconductor ICs with which we compete, which could result in their having objectives that conflict with ours. Our reliance on third-party foundries involves several risks, including reduced control over our manufacturing costs, availability of manufacturing capacity, delivery times, reliability and process quality, which can adversely affect the quality of our components produced from these wafers, the possible misappropriation of our technology and the possibility that third parties may claim that our products infringe their intellectual property, as a result of activities by our foundries. Our contracts with our foundries and other sole source suppliers generally commit them to supply specified quantities of components or materials at agreed prices, typically over a one to two-year period. We also rely on a small number of subcontractors, primarily in Asia and the United States, to package some of our products, particularly those that utilize standard plastic packages. We do not have long-term contracts with our third-party packaging subcontractors stipulating fixed prices or packaging volumes. Therefore, in the future, we may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity, sufficiently high quality or timely packaging of our products. If our packaging subcontractors fail to achieve and maintain acceptable production yields in the future, we could experience increased costs, including warranty and product liability expense and costs associated with customer support, delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, product returns or discounts and lost net revenue, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our suppliers currently have manufacturing capacity adequate to meet our foreseeable requirements. However, some of our suppliers could in the future be unable to, or elect not to, make available to us adequate manufacturing capacity to meet our requirements, extend their lead times or seek to increase the prices of materials we purchase from them as their contracts with us expire. If our key suppliers were to experience difficulties that affected their manufacturing yields or the quality of the materials they supply to us or seek to increase their prices, our cost of revenue could be adversely affected. Longer lead times and quality problems experienced by our suppliers or packaging subcontractors, or reduced availability to us of manufacturing capacity could also prevent us from fulfilling our customers' demands for our products on a timely basis, and thus adversely affect our 25 Table of Contents revenue. Longer lead times could also require us to increase our raw materials inventory levels, in order to be able to meet customers' delivery requirements. The ability of our suppliers to meet our requirements could be impaired or interrupted by factors beyond their control, such as earthquakes or other natural phenomena, labor strikes or shortages or political unrest. Furthermore, financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers, or significant changes in demand for the components, materials or services they use in the products they supply to us, could limit the availability of those products, components or materials to us. For example, one supplier of wafers that are used in a significant number of our products has, in the recent past, experienced financial difficulties. If one of our other key suppliers is unable to provide us with its materials, components or services, our operations may be adversely affected. We might experience difficulty identifying alternative sources of supply for the materials, components and services used in our products or that we obtain through outsourcing. We could experience delays if we were required to test and evaluate products and services of potential alternative suppliers. Any of these occurrences could negatively affect our operating results and harm our business. We are subject to claims that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights, which could result in costly and lengthy litigation that could harm our business. In recent years there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. Since patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent issues, it is not always possible for us to know whether patent applications are pending that might be infringed by our products, and there could be issued patents that are pertinent to our business of which we are not aware. Our products may also be claimed to infringe intellectual property rights of others as a result of activities by our foundries or other suppliers with respect to which we have no control or knowledge. In connection with the sale of our products, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and we agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims of such infringement. We have from time to time been the subject of litigation alleging that sales by us of our products infringe patents held by such third parties. We settled two such actions against us in 2010. We have also from time to time received letters asserting that we infringe patents held by third parties that have not resulted in litigation. We have incurred significant costs in investigating and defending these actions and claims, and there can be no assurance that these or any other pending or future litigation or claims relating to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights can be resolved in a manner favorable to us. Any claims relating to the alleged infringement by us of third-party proprietary rights, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming to defend and could harm our working relationships with our foundries and customers, damage our reputation, result in substantial and unanticipated costs associated with litigation, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, or result in the payment by us of substantial damages. If we were found to infringe the intellectual property rights of any third party and if a license were not available on reasonable terms, we could be required to redesign the infringing product so as not to infringe, which could be time consuming and costly, or if this is not feasible, we could be required to withdraw the infringing product from the market. Operations at our Chelmsford, Massachusetts facilities that are critical to our business are subject to disruption from a variety of causes, including those that may be beyond our control. Our executive management, sales, marketing and administrative functions, as well as most of our research and development and product design activities, are carried out at our headquarters facility in Chelmsford, Massachusetts, while final assembly of our module and subsystem-level products, and final testing for all of our products are carried out at our manufacturing facility, also located in Chelmsford, Massachusetts. These operations are critical to our business, and could be affected by disruptions such 26 Table of Contents as electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or man-made disasters that could damage that facility. Although we seek to mitigate these risks by maintaining business interruption insurance, this insurance would not be adequate to protect against all the consequences of such occurrences. A major disruption affecting our Chelmsford assembly and test operations, in particular, could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to procure and outfit another suitable facility or to qualify and contract with alternative third party suppliers, processes which could take many months. Even if alternative assembly and test capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on a timely basis, or favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers. We may not be able to effectively manage the challenges associated with our growth, including the need to make improvements in our infrastructure and systems, and any failure by us to manage these challenges could harm our business and operating results. Since 2009, we have experienced a period of resumed growth, with seven sequential quarters of revenue increases, as well as an expansion of our headcount and operations, which have placed additional demands on our management and other resources. To accommodate continued growth, we must expand our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and improve our enterprise resource planning (ERP) and other internal management systems. We have purchased an additional facility in Chelmsford, Massachusetts, to which we relocated a portion of our managerial, engineering, sales and administrative functions in January 2011. In addition, we are upgrading our ERP system to a newer version with greater functionality. These projects and other planned improvements to our facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems require substantial managerial and financial resources, and our efforts in this regard may not be successful. The implementation of new or upgraded management information systems is a complex and costly process that involves numerous risks, and there can be no assurance that the upgrade of our ERP system that is currently underway can be completed in a timely manner or at the expected cost, that the new system will operate free of errors, or that the upgrade will provide the expected benefits. Any failure of the new system to function as expected that is not detected by our system of internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial reporting, which could be material, or cause delays in reporting results in accordance with our regulatory requirements. In general, if we fail to adequately manage our growth, or to improve our operational, financial and management information systems in a timely and effective manner, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We design and manufacture products in our standard product line based upon our internal assessment and forecasts of market requirements, and our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to assess market requirements accurately. A majority of our revenue is typically derived from sales of our standard products. We order components and materials, such as semiconductor wafers, used in the manufacture of our standard products 12-14 weeks in advance, while our customers typically place orders for those products one to eight weeks in advance, exposing us to inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated revenue. If we or our customers fail to predict market demand accurately for new and existing standard products, we may experience a delay or reduction of anticipated revenue without having sufficient time to adjust our inventory and operating expenses. As the number of products we offer increases, we may be exposed to increased inventory risk. Lead times for our manufacturing materials can vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand. As a result, we make financial commitments in the form of purchase commitments. Furthermore, we generally lack visibility into the finished goods inventories of our customers, which makes it more difficult for us to accurately forecast their requirements. If we overestimate our customers' 27 Table of Contents requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our customers' requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers on a timely basis, which could disrupt our customers' production schedules. Any of these occurrences could negatively impact our operating results and our business. We design custom products to meet specific requirements of our customers. The amount and timing of revenue from such products can cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. The design and sales cycle for our custom products, from initial contact by our sales force to the commencement of shipments of those products in commercial quantities, is lengthy and can range from three months to as long as two years or more. In this process, our sales and application engineers work closely with the OEM customer to analyze the customer's system requirements and establish a technical specification for the custom product. We then select a semiconductor process and foundry, evaluate test wafers and components, and establish assembly and test procedures before manufacturing in commercial quantities can begin. The length of this cycle is influenced by many factors, including the difficulty of the technical specification, the novelty and complexity of the design and the customer's procurement processes. OEMs typically do not commit to purchase significant quantities of the custom product until they are ready to commence volume shipment of their own systems, and volume purchases of our products by an OEM customer or its contract manufacturer generally do not occur until the OEM customer has successfully introduced the system incorporating our product. Our receipt of substantial revenue from sales of a custom product depends on that customer's commercial success in manufacturing and selling its system incorporating our product. As a result, a significant period may elapse between our investment of time and resources in a custom product and our receipt of substantial revenue from sales of that product. The length of this process increases the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or change its product plans. Such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose anticipated sales. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if a significant customer curtails, reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle, chooses not to release equipment that contains our products, or is not successful in the sale and marketing of its products that incorporate our custom products. Finally, if we fail to achieve initial design wins in the customer's qualification process, we may lose the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a lengthy period of time because the customer may be unlikely to change its source for those products in the future due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and potentially redesigning its product. We rely on a small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue, and the loss of, or a reduction in, orders from these customers could result in a decline in revenue. We have historically depended on a small number of customers for a large percentage of our annual revenue. Although the degree of concentration in our customer base has diminished in recent years, it remains substantial. Revenue derived from our 10 largest customers as a percentage of our annual revenue was 36.5% in 2010, 31.9% in 2009 and 34.6% in 2008. In 2010 Boeing accounted for 11% of our total sales. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in 2009 or 2008. We include in these calculations revenue from products sold to these customers directly by us or through sales representatives and our distributor, as well as from products sold to contract manufacturers for use in a system manufactured by the contract manufacturer for that customer. Our major customers often use our products in multiple systems or programs, sometimes developed by different business units within the customer's organization, each having differing product life cycles, end customers and market dynamics. While the composition of our top 10 customers varies from year to year, we expect that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Additionally, we have noted consolidation among 28 Table of Contents OEMs in some of our markets, which could result in an increased concentration in our sources of revenue. It is possible that any of our major customers could terminate its purchasing arrangements with us or significantly reduce or delay the amount of our products that it orders, purchase products from our competitors or develop its own products internally. The loss of, or a reduction in, orders from any major customer could cause a decline in revenue and adversely affect our results of operations. Our failure to continue to keep pace with new or improved semiconductor process technologies could impair our competitive position. Semiconductor manufacturers constantly seek to develop new and improved semiconductor process technologies. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to continue to gain access to these semiconductor process technologies in order to adapt to emerging customer requirements and competitive market conditions. If we fail for any reason to remain abreast of new and improved semiconductor process technologies as they emerge, we may lose market share which could adversely affect our operating results. Our business depends on international customers, suppliers and operations, and as a result we are subject to regulatory, operational, financial and political risks which could adversely affect our financial results. The percentage of our revenue attributable to sales to customers outside the United States, based on the location to which the product shipped, was 55.1%, 57.3% and 59.3% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect that revenue from customers outside the United States will continue to account for the majority of our revenue. Currently, we maintain international sales offices in Europe and Asia, and we rely on a network of independent sales representatives to sell our products internationally. We also have design centers in Istanbul, Turkey, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, and Trondheim, Norway. We have in the past relied on, and expect to continue to rely on, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors located in countries other than the United States, including France, Germany, Malaysia, the Philippines and Taiwan. Accordingly, we will be subject to several risks and challenges, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. These risks and challenges include: •difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; •compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to the import or export of semiconductor products; •legal uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; •seasonal reductions in business activities; •our ability to receive timely payment and collect our accounts receivable; •political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; •legal uncertainties regarding protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and •fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions. Political and economic instability and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and foreign design centers, as well as the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. Any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices 29 Table of Contents and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. Additionally, most of our foreign sales, as well as our purchases of material from international suppliers, are denominated in U.S. dollars. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive for our international customers to purchase, thus rendering the prices of our products less competitive. Conversely, a reduction in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase our supply costs. At the present time, we do not have a foreign currency hedging policy in place. The segment of the semiconductor industry in which we participate is intensely competitive, and our inability to compete effectively would harm our business. The markets for our products are extremely competitive, and are characterized by rapid technological change and continuously evolving customer requirements. We compete primarily with other suppliers of high performance analog and mixed-signal semiconductor components used in RF, microwave and millimeterwave applications. These competitors include large, diversified semiconductor manufacturers with broad product lines, such as Avago and Analog Devices, with whom we compete in a number of our markets. We also compete in specific markets or product categories with a large number of semiconductor manufacturers such as Eudyna, Linear Technology, NEC, RFMD, Skyworks, TriQuint Semiconductor and UMS. We also encounter competition from manufacturers of advanced electronic systems that also manufacture semiconductor components internally. Some of these competitors, such as NEC, are also our customers. Additionally, in certain product categories we compete with semiconductor manufacturers from which we also obtain foundry services, such as TriQuint Semiconductor and UMS. Our competitors may develop new technologies, enhancements of existing products or new products that offer price or performance features superior to ours. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, sales and marketing resources than we do, and might be perceived by prospective customers to offer financial and operational stability superior to ours. This is particularly true of competitors in the markets for silicon-based products. We expect competition in our markets to intensify, as new competitors enter the RF, microwave and millimeterwave component market, existing competitors merge or form alliances, and new technologies emerge. If we are not able to compete effectively, our market share and revenue could be adversely affected, and our business and results of operations could be harmed. We rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and engineering staff and must attract and retain qualified engineers and other highly skilled personnel in order to grow our business successfully. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and our highly qualified team of engineers, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in our business. Highly skilled analog and mixed-signal IC engineers, in particular, are in short supply. We expect to continue to hire additional engineering personnel as we expand our IC design and system-level engineering capabilities. If we are not successful in hiring and retaining highly qualified engineers, we may not be able to extend or maintain our engineering expertise, and our future product development efforts could be adversely affected. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. If we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to maintain and grow our business could suffer significantly. Further, stock price volatility could impact our ability to retain key personnel. 30 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if we experience product returns, product liability and defects claims. We introduce a significant number of new products every year, and we may not be able to anticipate all of the possible performance or reliability problems that could arise with these products. If such problems occur or become significant, we could experience a reduction in our revenue and increased costs related to inventory write-offs, warranty claims and other expenses which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The materials used to manufacture our products are complex and are provided by a significant number of vendors in our supply chain. While we perform extensive testing and inspections during the manufacturing process, some defects may escape detection in our manufacturing process and subsequently pass through to our customers. These matters have arisen from time to time and may reasonably be expected to occur again in the future. The occurrence of defects such as these could result in product returns from, and reduced product shipments to, our customers. Such defects also could result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products or harm our reputation. Our purchase agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. However, the limitation of liability provisions contained in these agreements may not be effective as a result of federal, state or local laws, or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the United States or other countries. The insurance we maintain to protect against claims associated with the use of our products may not adequately cover all claims asserted against us. In addition, even if ultimately unsuccessful, such claims could result in costly litigation, divert our management's time and resources, and damage our customer relationships. Our test and measurement instrument products are more complex than our core IC, module and subsystem products, and as a result, present quality, regulatory and product liability risks that differ from those we have faced in our core IC business and module business. Our test and measurement instrument products, such as our HMC-T2000, HMC-T2100, HMC-T2100B, HMC-T2200, and HMC-T2240 signal generators, are complex microwave test instruments and could be subject to multiple internal component failures and manufacturing and software defects which could result in product failure. Defects in the hardware or software incorporated in these products could cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationship with our customers. Our test and measurement instrument products operate using line voltages of 100 volts or more and certain products require AC-to-DC power transformers which we purchase from a third party and supply to our customers. The failure of these products or their power transformers could cause safety problems for the operator, including the risk of electrical shock, injury or death in the event of a short circuit or other malfunction, and a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. We may be required to comply with various domestic and international legal directives governing the manufacture of our test and measurement instrument products. Failure of our test and measurement system products to meet domestic and international safety and other regulatory requirements for electromagnetic radiation, power consumption or workmanship standards could result in a loss of revenue, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. We may conclude that it is advisable or necessary, in order to promote the sale of these products, to seek certification of the products by various third parties such as Underwriters Laboratories (UL) in the United States or Conformité Européenne (CE) in Europe. We cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain, or if obtained, maintain any such certifications for our test and measurement instrument products. Our failure to obtain or maintain such certifications could adversely affect the market acceptance of the products. 31 Table of Contents We use specialized technologies and know-how to design, develop and manufacture our products. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could hurt our competitive position, harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. We seek to protect our proprietary technology under United States and foreign laws affording protection for trade secrets, and seek United States and foreign patent, copyright and trademark protection of our products and developments where appropriate. We rely primarily on trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities. While we own a small number of patents, we have not historically emphasized patents as a source of significant competitive advantage. We believe that while the protection afforded by trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws may provide some advantages, the competitive position of participants in our industry is largely determined by such factors as the technical and creative skills of their personnel, the frequency of their new product developments and their ability to anticipate and rapidly respond to evolving market requirements. To the extent that a competitor effectively uses its intellectual property portfolio, including patents, to prevent us from selling products that allegedly infringe such competitor's products, our operating results would be adversely affected. We seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring our employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. We also enter into non-disclosure agreements with our consultants, semiconductor foundries and other suppliers to protect our confidential information delivered to them. There can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets and other proprietary information will not otherwise become known. There also can be no assurance that others will not independently develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or reverse engineer our products. Additionally, the laws of countries in which we operate may afford little or no protection to our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to deter independent development of similar technologies, our competitive position and reputation could suffer. We generate a portion of our revenue from sales made by third parties, including our independent sales representatives and our distributor, and the failure to manage successfully our relationships with these third parties could cause our revenue to decline and harm our business. We rely in part upon third parties, including our independent sales representatives and our distributor, Future Electronics, to promote our products, generate demand and sales leads, and obtain orders for our products. In addition, these parties provide technical sales support to our customers. The activities of these third parties are not within our direct control. Our failure to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively could impair the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and support activities. A reduction in the sales efforts, technical capabilities or financial viability of these parties, a misalignment of interest between us and them, or a termination of our relationship with a major sales representative or our distributor could have a negative effect on our sales, financial results and ability to support our customers. These parties are engaged under short-term contracts, which typically may be terminated by either party on 30 to 60 days notice. It generally takes approximately three to six months for a third party such as a sales representative to become educated about our products and capable of providing quality sales and technical support to our customers. If we were to terminate our relationship with our distributor or one of our larger sales representatives, or if one of them decided to discontinue its relationship with us, sales to current and prospective customers could be disrupted or delayed, and we could experience a diversion of substantial time and resources as we seek to identify, contract with and train a replacement. 32 Table of Contents We may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products or technologies that involve numerous risks, which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial results. We have previously made, and may in the future pursue, acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products and technologies, or we may acquire other operations that expand our current capabilities. Acquisitions and investments present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value to us of the acquired business, product or technology. For example, if we identify an acquisition or investment candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the transaction on favorable terms. Even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products or technologies into our existing business and products. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining key employees or customers of the acquired business. In some cases, the consent of a customer may be required before contracts between that customer and a company that we acquire may be assumed by us, and it may not be feasible to obtain all such consents prior to closing. As a result of the rapid pace of technological change, we may misgauge the longterm potential of the acquired business or technology, or be unable to commercialize the acquired technology in time to capitalize on available market opportunities, or may find that the acquisition is not complementary to our existing business. Potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management's attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. In addition, to complete future acquisitions and investments, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability. If our principal markets fail to grow or experience declines, our revenue may suffer. Although our products are used in a variety of markets, our future growth depends to a significant extent on the success of our principal markets, which are automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, fiber optics, microwave and millimeterwave communications, military, space and test and measurement systems. Revenue derived from our three largest markets, cellular infrastructure, microwave and millimeterwave communications and military, represented 81.1%, 79.3% and 75.9% of our annual revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Given the current economic climate, the rate at which our principal markets will grow or decline is difficult to predict. These markets may fail to grow or may decline for many reasons, including insufficient consumer demand, lack of access to capital, changes in the United States defense budget and procurement processes and changes in regulatory environments. If demand for electronic systems in which our products are incorporated declines, fails to grow, or grows more slowly than we anticipate, our revenue could decline. Our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate as well as the actual tax ultimately payable could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. 33 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with export control regulations we could be subject to substantial fines or other sanctions. Certain of our products are subject to the Export Administration Regulations, administered by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry Security, which require that we obtain an export license before we can export products or technology to specified countries. Additionally, some of our products are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which restrict the export of information and material that may be used for military or intelligence applications by a foreign person. Failure to comply with these laws could result in sanctions by the government, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges and debarment from government contracts. If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, we could suffer a loss of revenue or incur price adjustments or other penalties. Some of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the United States government and subcontracts with its prime contractors. As a United States government contractor or subcontractor, we are subject to federal contracting regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which govern the allowability of costs incurred by us in the performance of United States government contracts. Certain contract pricing is based on estimated direct and indirect costs, which are subject to change. Additionally, the United States government is entitled after final payment on certain negotiated contracts to examine all of our cost records with respect to such contracts and to seek a downward adjustment to the price of the contract if it determines that we failed to furnish complete, accurate and current cost or pricing data in connection with the negotiation of the price of the contract. In connection with our United States government business, we are also subject to government audits and to review and approval of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws. In certain circumstances, if we do not comply with the terms of a contract or with regulations or statutes, we could be subject to downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations or could in extreme circumstances be assessed civil and criminal penalties or be debarred or suspended from obtaining future contracts for a specified period of time. Any such suspension or debarment or other sanction could have an adverse effect on our business. Under some of our government subcontracts, we are required to maintain secure facilities and to obtain security clearances for personnel involved in performance of the contract, in compliance with applicable federal standards. If we were unable to comply with these requirements, or if personnel critical to our performance of these contracts were to lose their security clearances, we might be unable to perform these contracts or compete for other projects of this nature, which could adversely affect our revenue. Some of our long-term contracts may be terminated for the convenience of the customer and may involve significant expenditures on our part that, if the contract is terminated early, we may be unable to recover. Our United States government contracts and subcontracts may be funded in increments over a number of government budget periods and typically can be terminated by the government for its convenience. Some of these contracts are long-term agreements for the manufacture of complex subsystems for which we are required to expand our production facilities, hire additional personnel, incur costs to meet customer qualification requirements and make other substantial investments in advance of our receipt of significant revenue. If such a contract is terminated, in addition to the loss of anticipated revenue, we may be unable to recover all of our costs incurred or committed. 34 Table of Contents In order to comply with current and pending environmental and climate change laws and regulations, we may need to modify our activities or incur substantial costs, and if we fail to comply with environmental regulations we could be subject to substantial fines or be required to suspend production, alter manufacturing processes or cease operations. We are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local governmental regulations directed at preventing or mitigating climate change and other environmental harms, as well as to the storage, discharge, handling, generation, disposal and labeling of toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products. If we fail to comply with these regulations, substantial fines could be imposed on us, and we could be required to suspend production, alter manufacturing processes or cease operations, any of which could have a negative effect on our sales, income and business operations. Failure to comply with environmental regulations could subject us to civil or criminal sanctions and property damage or personal injury claims. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or build new facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other substantial expenses which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In response to environmental concerns, some customers and government agencies impose requirements for the elimination of hazardous substances, such as lead (which is widely used in soldering connections in the process of semiconductor packaging and assembly), from electronic equipment. For example, in 2003, the EU adopted its RoHS Directive. Effective July 1, 2006, the RoHS Directive prohibits, with specified exceptions, the sale in the EU market of new electrical and electronic equipment containing more than agreed levels of lead or other hazardous materials. We have a program in place to meet these customer and governmental requirements, including the RoHS Directive, where applicable to us, by making available versions of our products that do not include lead or other hazardous substances. The European Parliament has also adopted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE Directive, which makes producers of electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Environmental laws and regulations such as these could become more stringent over time, imposing even greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish annually a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such a report is required to contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 35 Table of Contents We could be the subject of securities class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which could divert management's attention and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. The stock market in general, and market prices for the securities of technology companies like ours in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of the underlying companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In several recent situations where the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have initiated securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit against us, the defense and disposition of the lawsuit could be costly and divert the time and attention of our management and harm our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our Company that stockholders may consider beneficial and may adversely affect the price of our stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock and establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote. Provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with our Company or obtaining control of our Company. Specifically, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock and could reduce the value of our Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 