Risk Factors Related to Our Financial Reporting and Corporate Governance If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. Although we had no material weaknesses as of December 31, 2009, we have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the past. There can be no assurance that we will avoid a material weakness in the future. If we have another material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, it could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner. Our use of the percentage-of-completion accounting method could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. A substantial portion of our revenues is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Under this method of accounting, the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Revisions to estimated revenues and estimated costs can and do result in changes to revenues, costs and profits. For further information on our revenue recognition methodology, please refer to Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies — Revenue Recognition on Long-Term Contracts,” to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on Form 10-K. Registered holders who acquired our shares after the Redomestication must apply for enrollment in our share register as shareholders with voting rights in order to have voting rights; we may deny such registration under certain circumstances. To be able to exercise voting rights, registered holders of our shares who acquired our shares after the Redomestication must apply to us for enrollment in our share register as shareholders with voting rights. Our board of directors may refuse to register holders of shares as shareholders with voting rights based on certain grounds. In particular, under our articles of association, no shareholder will generally not be registered with voting rights for 10% or more of our share capital as recorded in the commercial register. Only shareholders that are registered as shareholders with voting rights on the relevant record date are permitted to participate in and vote at a general shareholders’ meeting. Registered holders who received our shares as a result of the Redomestication are registered as shareholders with voting rights and shareholders who hold in “street name” will be entitled to participate in and vote at a general shareholders’ meeting through Cede & Co. 19 Table of Contents There are provisions in our articles of association that may reduce the voting rights of our registered shares. Our articles of association provide that shareholders have one vote for each registered share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, our articles of association provide that shareholders whose “controlled shares” (as defined in the articles of association) represent 10% or more of our total voting shares are limited to voting one vote less than 10% of the total voting rights of our share capital as registered with the commercial register. This provision is intended to prevent the possibility of our company becoming a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could have certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. persons who own (directly, indirectly or under applicable constructive ownership rules) 10% or more of our voting shares. It may also have an anti-takeover effect by making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Following the Redomestication, as a result of the higher par value of our shares, we have less flexibility than we had prior to the Redomestication with respect to certain aspects of capital management. The par value of our shares is CHF 3.00 per share. The par value of Foster Wheeler Ltd.’s common shares was $0.01 per share. Under Swiss law, we may not issue our shares below par value. As of February 12, 2010, the closing price of our registered shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was $26.93, and CHF 3.00 was equivalent to approximately $2.79 based on a foreign exchange rate of CHF 1.0751 to $1.00 on such date. In the event we need to raise common equity capital at a time when the trading price of our shares is below the par value of the shares, we will be unable to issue shares. In addition, we will not be able to issue options under our various compensation and benefits plans with an exercise price below the par value, which would limit the flexibility of our compensation arrangements. Following the Redomestication, as a result of increased shareholder approval requirements, we have less flexibility than we had before the Redomestication with respect to certain aspects of capital management. Under Bermuda law, Foster Wheeler Ltd.’s directors were able to issue, without shareholder approval, any common shares authorized in Foster Wheeler Ltd.’s memorandum of association that were not issued or reserved. Bermuda law also provided the board of directors with substantial flexibility in establishing the terms of preferred shares. In addition, Foster Wheeler Ltd.’s board of directors had the right, subject to statutory limitations, to declare and pay dividends on Foster Wheeler Ltd.’s common shares without a shareholder vote. Swiss law allows our shareholders to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without shareholder approval, but our authorization is presently limited to CHF 189,623,871 divided into 63,207,957 registered shares with a par value of CHF 3.00 per share and must be renewed by the shareholders every two years. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares. For example, while the board of directors of Foster Wheeler Ltd. could authorize the issuance of preferred stock without shareholder approval, we may not issue preferred stock without the approval of 662/3% of the votes cast and a majority of the par value of the registered shares represented at a general meeting of our shareholders. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders many corporate actions over which Foster Wheeler Ltd.’s board of directors had authority. For example, dividends must be approved by shareholders. While we do not believe that the differences between Bermuda law and Swiss law relating to our capital management will have an adverse effect on us, we cannot assure you that situations will not arise where such flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. The anticipated benefits of moving our principal executive offices to Switzerland may not be realized, and difficulties in connection with moving our operating headquarters could have an adverse effect on us. We relocated our operating headquarters from Clinton, New Jersey in the United States, to Geneva, Switzerland in January 2010. We may face significant challenges resulting from the relocation of our principal executive offices to a different country, including difficulties in retaining and attracting officers, key personnel and other employees. Management may also be required to devote substantial time to matters relating to the 20 Table of Contents relocation, which could otherwise be devoted to focusing on ongoing business operations and other initiatives and opportunities. In addition, we may not realize the benefits we anticipate from the relocation, including the benefit derived from moving to a location that is more centrally located within our area of worldwide operations. Any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we elect to declare dividends, we would be required to declare such dividends in Swiss francs and any currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc will affect the dollar value of the dividends we pay. Under Swiss corporate law, if we elect to declare dividends, including distributions through a reduction in par value, we would be required to declare such dividends in Swiss francs. Dividend payments will be made by our transfer agent in U.S. dollars converted at the applicable exchange rate shortly before the payment date. As a result, shareholders will be exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the date used for purposes of calculating the CHF amount of any proposed dividend or par value reduction and the relevant payment date, which will not be shorter than two months and could be as long as a year. We may not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Swiss withholding tax. If we are not successful in our efforts to make distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or, based on current legislation, after January 1, 2011, pay dividends, if any, out of qualifying additional paid-in capital, then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of 35%. The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A U.S. holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income, which we refer to as the “U.S.-Swiss Treaty,” may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full refund in the case of qualified pension funds). Payment of a capital distribution in the form of a par value reduction is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a reduction in par value; that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in par value; or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of par value available for us to use for par value reductions will be limited. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or, based on current legislation, after January 1, 2011, pay a dividend out of qualifying additional paid-in capital, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Swiss withholding taxes. We have anti-takeover provisions in our articles of association that may discourage a change of control. Our articles of association and Swiss law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions provide for: • The board of directors to be divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms. In addition, directors may be removed from office, by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the issued shares generally entitled to vote. These provisions of our articles of association may delay or limit the ability of a shareholder to obtain majority representation on the board of directors. • Limiting the voting rights of shareholders whose “controlled shares” (as defined in the articles of association) represent 10% or more of our total voting shares to one vote less than 10% of the total voting rights of our share capital as registered with the Swiss commercial register. • Under Swiss corporate law, merger and demerger transactions require the affirmative vote of holders of at least 662/3% of the shares represented at the applicable shareholders meeting. In addition, under certain circumstances (for example, in the case of so-called “cashout” or “squeezeout” mergers) a merger requires the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of shares. • Any shareholder who wishes to propose any business or to nominate a person or persons for election as a director at any annual meeting may only do so if advance notice is given to our Corporate Secretary. 21 Table of Contents These provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. We are a Swiss company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. Foster Wheeler AG is a Swiss corporation. As a result, the rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law and by our articles of association and organizational regulations. The rights of shareholders under Swiss law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies of other jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. It may be difficult for investors to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or our directors based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. Uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Switzerland will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Switzerland under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Table of Contents 