ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Relating to Our Business If the market for SBCs does not develop as we anticipate, our revenue may decline or fail to grow, which would adversely affect our operating results. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, all of our revenue from providing SBCs. The market for SBCs is relatively new and still evolving, and it is uncertain whether these products will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of interactive communications service providers to continue to implement SBCs. Some service providers may be reluctant or unwilling to implement SBCs for a number of reasons, including failure to perceive the need for improved quality and security of interactive communications across IP borders and lack of knowledge about the potential benefits that SBCs may provide. Even if service providers recognize the need for improved quality and security of interactive communications across IP borders, they may not select SBCs such as ours because they choose to wait for the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our SBCs. If service providers do not perceive the benefits of SBCs, the SBC market may not continue to develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would significantly adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Because the market for SBCs is developing and the manner of its development is difficult to predict, we may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our operating results. We have incurred operating losses in the past and may not be able to sustain profitability in the future. We have incurred significant losses in several fiscal years since inception, which included net losses of $7.5 million in 2003, $7.0 million in 2004 and $35,000 in 2005. We expect to continue to incur significant sales and marketing, product development, administrative, and other expenses. We have only a limited operating history on which you can base your evaluation of our business, including our ability to increase our revenue. We commenced operations in August 2000 and began recognizing revenue in 2003. We will need to generate significant revenue to maintain profitability, and we cannot be sure that we will remain profitable for any substantial period of time. If we are unable to remain profitable, the market price of our common stock will probably fall. 19 The unpredictability of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. If our quarterly revenue, earnings or other operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could fall substantially. Our operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Generally, a service providers’ purchases of communications equipment have been unpredictable and clustered, rather than steady and predictable, as service providers frequently build out and update their communications networks in stages. In addition, the following factors, among others, can contribute to the unpredictability of our operating results: · fluctuations in demand for our products, and the timing and size of customer orders; · the length and variability of the sales and deployment cycles for our products, and the corresponding timing of recognizing revenue; · new product introductions and enhancements by our competitors and us; · changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; · changes in our third-party manufacturing costs or in the prices of components and materials used in our products; · our ability to develop, introduce and deploy new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; · our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of limited source components or materials; · our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; and · general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the communications, networking and related industries. As with other communications equipment suppliers, we may recognize a substantial portion of our revenue in a given quarter from sales booked and shipped in the last month of that quarter. As a result, a delay in customer orders is likely to result in a delay in shipments and recognition of revenue beyond the end of a given quarter. Since a relatively small number of customers may account for a substantial portion of our revenue in any quarter, any such delay in an order from a customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenue for that quarter. Our operating expenses are largely based on our anticipated organizational and revenue growth. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation, are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, any shortfall in revenue in relation to our expectations, whether for the reasons set forth above, the reasons identified below or any other reason, could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter and could result in increased quarterly losses. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock may decrease substantially. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue in any fiscal period, and the loss of, or a significant shortfall in orders from, key customers could significantly reduce our revenue. We derive a substantial portion of our total revenue in any fiscal period from a limited number of customers as a result of the nature of our target market and the relatively early stage of our development. During any given fiscal quarter, a small number of customers may each account for 10% or more of our revenue. For example, four such customers accounted for 51% of our total revenue in 2005 and two such 20 customers accounted for 27% of our total revenue in 2006. Additionally, we do not have and we do not enter into long-term purchase contracts with our customers, and have no contractual arrangements to ensure future sales of our products to our existing customers. Our inability to generate anticipated revenue from our key existing or targeted customers, or a significant shortfall in sales to them, would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to effect sales to existing and other large customers. Our revenue growth may be constrained by our product concentration and lack of revenue diversification. We have derived all of our revenue to date from sales of our SBCs, and we expect that our SBCs will account for substantially all of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. As a result, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected by: · any decline in demand for our existing products; · the failure of our existing products to achieve continued market acceptance; · the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our existing products; · technological innovations or new standards that our existing products do not address; and · our inability to release enhanced versions of our existing products on a timely basis. The long and variable sales and deployment cycles for our products may cause our operating results to vary materially, which could result in a significant unexpected revenue shortfall in any given quarter. Our products have lengthy sales cycles, which typically extend from six to twelve months and may take up to two years. A customer’s decision to purchase our products often involves a significant commitment of its resources and a product evaluation and qualification process that can vary significantly in length. The length of our sales cycles also varies depending on the type of customer to which we are selling, the product being sold and the type of network in which our product will be utilized. We may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort during this time, regardless of whether we make a sale. Even after making the decision to purchase our products, our customers may deploy our products slowly. Timing of deployment can vary widely among customers. The length of a customer’s deployment period may directly affect the timing of any subsequent purchase of additional products by that customer. As a result of the lengthy and uncertain sales and deployment cycles for our products, it is difficult for us to predict the quarter in which our customers may purchase additional products or features from us, and our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may negatively affect our operating results for any given quarter. Our revenue growth will be limited if we are unable to continue to sell our products to large interactive communications service providers. Our future success depends in part on our ability to sell our products to large interactive communications service providers operating complex networks that serve large numbers of subscribers and transport high volumes of traffic. The communications industry historically has been dominated by a relatively small number of service providers. While deregulation and other market forces have led to an increasing number of service providers in recent years, large service providers continue to constitute a significant portion of the market for communications equipment. If we fail to sell additional SBCs to our large customers or to expand our customer base to include additional customers that deploy our products in large-scale networks serving significant numbers of subscribers, our revenue growth will be limited. 21 Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that could result in increased cost of sales and decreased revenues and could adversely affect our operating results. Many of our customers are large interactive communications service providers that have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. These customers may require us to develop additional features and require penalties for performance obligations, such as delivery, outages and response time. As we seek to sell more products to large service providers, we may be required to agree to additional performance-based terms and conditions, which may affect the timing of revenue recognition and may adversely affect our operating results. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards could adversely affect our operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, the SEC and various other bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, we recognize our product software license revenue in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position, or SOP, 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition , and related amendments and interpretations contained in SOP 98-9, Software Revenue Recognition with Respect to Certain Transactions . The AICPA and its Software Revenue Recognition Task Force continue to issue interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant accounting standards to a wide range of sales contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in software licensing arrangements. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards, including SOP 97-2 and SOP 98-9, or changes in our business practices could result in future changes in our revenue recognition accounting policies that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be required to delay revenue recognition into future periods, which could adversely affect our operating results. In the future we may have to defer recognition for license fees due to several factors, including whether a transaction involves: · software arrangements that include undelivered elements for which we do not have vendor specific objective evidence of fair value; · requirements that we deliver services for significant enhancements and modifications to customize our software for a particular customer; or · material acceptance criteria. Because of these factors and other specific requirements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our software arrangements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend our sales cycle, and we sometimes accept terms and conditions that do not permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery. In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123(R), Share Based Payment. SFAS No. 123(R) requires measurement of all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair-value method and the recording of such expense in the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) requires additional accounting related to the income tax effects and disclosure regarding the cash flow effects resulting from share-based payment arrangements. In January 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107, which provides supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS No. 123(R). We have selected the Black-Scholes option-pricing model as the most appropriate fair-value method for our awards and are recognizing compensation 22 costs on a straight-line basis over our awards’ vesting periods. We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006, and in fiscal 2006 recognized stock-based compensation expense of $867,000. If the migration to an IP network architecture for real-time interactive communications does not continue, the SBC market may not expand as predicted, and our ability to obtain new customers may decrease and our revenue will decrease. We derive our revenue by providing SBCs to interactive communications service providers seeking to deliver premium interactive communications over IP networks. Our success depends on the continued migration of service providers’ networks to a single IP network architecture. The migration of voice traffic from the PSTN to IP networks is in its early stages, and the continued migration to IP networks depends on a number of factors outside of our control. Among other things, existing networks include switches and other equipment that may have estimated useful lives of twenty or more years and therefore may continue to operate reliably for a lengthy period of time. Other factors that may delay the migration to IP networks include service providers’ concerns regarding initial capital outlay requirements, available capacity on legacy networks, competitive and regulatory issues, and the implementation of an enhanced services business model. As a result, service providers may defer investing in products, such as ours, that are designed to migrate interactive communications to IP networks. If the migration to IP networks does not occur for these or other reasons, or if it occurs more slowly than we expect, the SBC market may not expand as predicted, if at all, and we will not be able to gain new customers. In addition, even if there is a successful migration to an IP network for interactive communications, new unforseen technologies may render the SBC unnecessary. As a result, our sales and revenues will decrease and our operating results will be harmed. If functionality similar to that offered by our SBCs is added to existing network infrastructure elements, organizations may decide against adding our SBCs to their network which would cause the market for standalone SBC systems to decrease resulting in fewer customers for and decreased sales of standalone SBC systems. Other providers of network infrastructure elements are offering or proposing to offer functionality aimed at addressing the problems addressed by our products. The inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our products in infrastructure elements that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may cause the market not to grow as predicted, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell certain of our products. Furthermore, even if the functionality offered by other network infrastructure elements is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding additional equipment from an additional vendor, which could also have a material adverse effect on the market for standalone SBC systems. Many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of network infrastructure elements, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from new vendors. In addition, an organization’s existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only a single line of products and may have fewer financial resources than some of our competitors. If organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, the market for our products may prove smaller than predicted and our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. The market for SBCs is competitive and continually evolving, and if we are not able to compete effectively, we may not be able to continue to expand our business as expected and our business may suffer. Although relatively new, the market for SBCs is competitive and continually evolving. We expect competition to persist and intensify in the future as the SBC market grows and new and existing competitors devote considerable resources to introducing and enhancing products. Our primary 23 competitors generally consist of start-up vendors, such as Newport Networks and NexTone, and more established network equipment and component companies, such as Ditech Networks, through its acquisition of Jasomi, Juniper Networks, through its acquisition of Kagoor, and AudioCodes, through its acquisition of Netrake. In addition, we compete with some of the companies with which we have distribution partnerships, such as Sonus Networks. We compete on the basis of customer traction and experience in interactive communications service provider networks, breadth of applications and standards support, depth of border control features, demonstrated ability of products to interoperate with key communications infrastructure elements, comprehensive service support, and price. Networking and telecommunications equipment suppliers without competitive solutions today, such as Cisco Systems, may introduce solutions in the future, either through internal development or acquisition. These additional competitors may include some of our distribution partners. Any new entrant would be likely to devote significant sales and marketing resources to establish its position in the SBC market and may be willing to price its products at a discount or bundle its products with other equipment or services in an attempt to rapidly gain market share. New product introductions or new market entrants could cause service providers to delay purchase decisions or reopen bidding processes. If new product enhancements and introductions are superior to ours, and we are unable to make comparable enhancements to our products, our competitive advantage would be compromised and the condition of our business would be harmed. We may not be able to compete effectively against current and potential competitors, especially those with significantly greater resources and market leverage. Our competitors may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we do, including relationships with our potential customers. In addition, these companies may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. These competitors may be in a position to respond more quickly than we do to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements or may foresee the course of market developments more accurately than we do. As a result, we may experience price reductions for our products, order cancellations and increased expenses. Accordingly, our business may not grow as expected and our business may suffer. If we do not timely deliver new and enhanced products that respond to customer requirements and technological changes, interactive communications service providers may not buy our products and our revenue may decline. To achieve market acceptance for our products, we must effectively anticipate, and adapt in a timely manner to, customer requirements and must offer products that meet changing customer demands. Prospective customers may require product features and capabilities that our current products do not have. For example, our most recent product introduction, the Net-Net 9000 Series, may not adequately respond to new customer demands, and, therefore, demand for our products may decrease or may fail to increase to the extent contemplated by our business plan. If we fail to develop products that satisfy customer requirements, our ability to create or increase demand for our products will be harmed, and we may lose current and prospective customers. The market for SBCs is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry requirements. We may be unable to respond quickly or effectively to these developments. We may experience difficulties with software development, hardware design, manufacturing or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or implementation of new products and enhancements. The introduction of new products by competitors, the emergence of new industry standards, or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing product offerings could render our existing or future products obsolete. If our products become technologically obsolete, customers may purchase solutions from our competitors and we may be unable to sell our products in the marketplace and generate revenue. 24 If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ existing networks, the demand for our products will decrease and our operating results will be harmed. Our products must interface with our customers’ existing networks, each of which may have different specifications. An unanticipated lack of interoperability may result in significant support and repair costs and harm our relations with customers. If our products do not interoperate with those of our customers’ networks, installations could be delayed or orders for our products could be cancelled, which would result in losses of revenue and customers that could significantly impair our business and operating results. We rely on many distribution partners to assist in selling our products, and if we do not develop and manage these relationships effectively, our ability to generate revenue and control expenses will be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 30 distribution partners. Our success is highly dependent upon our ability to continue to establish and maintain successful relationships with these distribution partners from whom, collectively, we derive a significant portion of our revenue. Revenue derived through distribution partners accounted for 52% of our total revenue in 2005 and 48% of our total revenue in 2006. Although we have entered into contracts with each of our distribution partners, our contractual arrangements are not exclusive and do not obligate our distribution partners to order, purchase or distribute any fixed or minimum quantities of our products. Accordingly, our distribution partners, at their sole discretion, may choose to purchase SBCs from our competitors rather than from us. Under our contracts with our distribution partners, our distribution partners generally order products from us by submitting purchase orders that describe, among other things, the type and quantities of our products desired, delivery date and other delivery terms applicable to the ordered products. Accordingly, our ability to sell our products and generate significant revenue through our distribution partners is highly dependent on the continued desire and willingness of our distribution partners to purchase and distribute our products and on the continued cooperation between us and our distribution partners. Some of our distribution partners may develop competitive products in the future or may already have other product offerings that they may choose to offer and support in lieu of our products. Divergence in strategy, change in focus, competitive product offerings, potential contract defaults, and changes in ownership or management of a distribution partner may interfere with our ability to market, license, implement or support our products with that party, which in turn could harm our business. Some of our competitors may have stronger relationships with our distribution partners than we do, and we have limited control, if any, as to whether those partners implement our products rather than our competitors’ products or whether they devote resources to market and support our competitors’ products rather than our offerings. Moreover, if we are unable to leverage our sales and support resources through our distribution partner relationships, we may need to hire and train additional qualified sales and engineering personnel. We cannot be assured, however, that we will be able to hire additional qualified sales and engineering personnel in these circumstances, and our failure to do so may restrict our ability to generate revenue or implement our products on a timely basis. Even if we are successful in hiring additional qualified sales and engineering personnel, we will incur additional costs and our operating results, including our gross margin, may be adversely affected. Our international operations expose us to additional business risks, and failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our revenue generated in foreign countries, and our overall operating results. We have employees in Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, Russia, South Africa, Spain and the United Kingdom. In the coming years, we may find that the success of our business may depend, in part, on our ability to expand further into international markets. Any continued expansion into international markets will require significant resources and management attention and will subject us to new regulatory, economic and political risks. Given our limited experience in international markets, we cannot be sure that any further international expansion will be successful. In addition, we will face new risks in doing business 25 internationally. These risks could reduce demand for our products, lower the prices at which we can sell our products or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operating results. Among the risks we believe are most likely to affect us are: · our ability to comply with differing technical standards and certification requirements outside North America; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; · greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · new and different sources of competition; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · adverse tax consequences; and · political and economic instability and terrorism. Because we derive all of our revenue from interactive communications service providers, our operating results will suffer if the interactive communications industry experiences an economic downturn. We derive all of our revenue from the communications industry. Our future success depends upon the continued demand for communications equipment by interactive communications service providers. The communications industry is cyclical and reactive to general economic conditions. In the recent past, worldwide economic downturns, pricing pressures and deregulation have led to consolidations and reorganizations. These downturns, pricing pressures and restructurings have been causing delays and reductions in capital and operating expenditures by many interactive communications service providers. These delays and reductions, in turn, have been reducing demand for communications products like ours. A continuation or subsequent recurrence of these industry patterns, as well as general domestic and foreign economic conditions and other factors that reduce spending by companies in the communications industry, could harm our operating results in the future. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel may impair our ability to grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical, marketing and production personnel, including our founders, Andrew D. Ory, who is also our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Patrick MeLampy, who is also our Chief Technology Officer. Neither of these officers is a party to an employment agreement with us, and either of them therefore may terminate employment with us at any time with no advance notice. The replacement of either of these two officers likely would involve significant time and costs, and the loss of either of these officers may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing, financial services, manufacturing and e-commerce companies. For example, our competitors may be able attract and retain a more qualified engineering team by offering more competitive compensation packages. If we are unable to attract new engineers and retain our current engineers, we may not be able to develop and service our products at the same levels as our competitors and we may, therefore, lose potential customers and sales penetration in certain markets. Our failure to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan and as a result, our ability to compete effectively in the SBC market would decrease, our operating results would suffer and our revenues would decrease. 26 We will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to public company compliance initiatives. If we are unable to absorb these increased costs or maintain management focus on development and sales of our product offerings and services, we may not be able to achieve our business plan. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, have imposed a variety of new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and regulations have made it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have incurred substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in fiscal 2007, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. The increased costs associated with operating as a public company may decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and may require us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services. Additionally, if these requirements divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our business and operating results will be harmed and our reputation may be damaged. We significantly expanded our operations in 2005 and 2006. For example, during the period from December 31, 2004 through December 31, 2006, we increased the number of our employees and full-time independent contractors by 142%, from 104 to 252, and we opened new sales offices in Japan and Spain. In addition, our total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased by 58% as compared to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, and for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 59% higher than for the year ended December 31, 2005. We anticipate that further expansion of our infrastructure and headcount will be required to achieve planned expansion of our product offerings, projected increases in our customer base and anticipated growth in the number of product deployments. Our rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies, and reporting systems and procedures. 27 We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we are unable to manage future expansion, our ability to provide high quality products and services could be harmed, which would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our ability to compete and the success of our business could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately. Our success depends to a degree upon the protection of our software, hardware designs and other proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and confidentiality provisions in agreements with employees, distribution partners, consultants and customers to protect our intellectual property rights. Other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we may not be able to enforce our rights adequately against these parties. In addition, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. For example, if a competitor were to gain use of certain of our proprietary technology, it might be able to manufacture similarly designed and equipped SBCs at a reduced cost, which would result in a decrease in demand for our products. Furthermore, we have adopted a strategy of seeking limited patent protection both in the United States and in foreign countries with respect to the technologies used in or relating to our products. Others may independently develop and obtain patents for technologies that are similar to or superior to our technologies. If that happens, we may need to license these technologies and we may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, thereby causing great harm to our business. In addition, if we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could become burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. Claims by other parties that we infringe upon their proprietary technology could force us to redesign our products or to incur significant costs. We may become involved in litigation as a result of allegations that we infringe upon intellectual property rights of others. Any parties asserting that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights would force us to defend ourselves, and possibly our customers, distribution partners or contract manufacturers, against the alleged infringement. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: · stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; · obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; · redesign those products that use any allegedly infringing technology; or · refund deposits and other amounts. Any lawsuits regarding intellectual property rights, regardless of their success, could be time-consuming, could be expensive to resolve, and would divert our management’s time and attention. 28 Compliance with regulations and standards applicable to our products may be time consuming, difficult and costly, and if we fail to comply, our product sales will decrease. In order to achieve and maintain market acceptance, our products must continue to meet a significant number of regulations and standards. In the United States, our products must comply with various regulations defined by the Federal Communications Commission and Underwriters Laboratories. As these regulations and standards evolve, and if new regulations or standards are implemented, we will be required to modify our products or develop and support new versions of our products, and this will increase our costs. The failure of our products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving industry regulations and standards could prevent or delay introduction of our products, which could harm our business. User uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for communications products, including our products. Moreover, distribution partners or customers may require us, or we may otherwise deem it necessary or advisable, to alter our products to address actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment. Our inability to alter our products to address these requirements and any regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Regulations affecting IP networks could reduce demand for our products. Laws and regulations governing the Internet and electronic commerce are emerging but remain largely unsettled, even in the areas where there has been some legislative action. Regulations may focus on, among other things, assessing access or settlement charges, or imposing tariffs or regulations based on the characteristics and quality of products, either of which could restrict our business or increase our cost of doing business. Government regulatory policies are likely to continue to have a major impact on the pricing of existing and new network services and, therefore, are expected to affect demand for those services and the communications products, including our products, supporting those services. Any changes to existing laws or the adoption of new regulations by federal or state regulatory authorities or any legal challenges to existing laws or regulations affecting IP networks could materially adversely affect the market for our products. In addition, the convergence of the PSTN and IP networks could become subject to governmental regulation, including the imposition of access fees or other tariffs, that adversely affects the market for services and equipment, including our products, for interactive communications across IP networks. User uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for communications products, including our products. Moreover, distribution partners or customers may require us, or we may otherwise deem it necessary or advisable, to alter our products to address actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment. Our inability to alter our products or address any regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that may increase our costs of operations or limit our activities. We are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety regulations relating to matters such as reductions in the use of harmful substances, comprehensive risk management in manufacturing activities and final products, the use of lead-free soldering, and the recycling of products and packaging materials. The European Parliament and the Counsel of the European Union have published directives on waste electrical and electronic equipment and on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. These directives generally require electronics producers to bear the cost of collection, treatment, recovery and safe disposal of past and future products from end-users and to ensure that new electrical and electronic equipment does not contain specified hazardous substances. While the cost of these directives to us cannot be determined before regulations are adopted in individual member states of the European Union, it may be substantial and may divert resources, which could detract from our ability to develop new products. We may not be able to comply in all cases with applicable 29 environmental and other regulations, and if we do not, we may incur remediation costs or we may not be able to offer our products for sale in certain countries, which could adversely affect our results. Because our products are sophisticated and designed to be deployed in complex environments, they may have errors or defects that we find only after deployment, which could result in a loss of customers and adversely affect our reputation, future sales and operating results. Products as complex as ours may contain undetected errors that result in product failures. Our products can be fully tested only when deployed in large networks with high volumes of traffic. Our customers may discover errors or defects in the software or hardware, or the products may not operate as expected. If we are unable to fix errors or other performance problems identified after deployment of our products, we could experience: · a loss of, or delay in, revenue; · a loss of customers and market share; · a failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products; · increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and · costly and time-consuming legal actions by our customers and injury to our reputation. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our dependence on outside contractors for critical manufacturing services could result in product delivery delays, damage our customer relations and adversely affect our operating results. We outsource the manufacturing of our Net-Net products. We subcontract all of the manufacturing of our Net-Net 4000 series of products to Jabil Circuit, Inc. and Benchmark Electronics. We subcontract all of the manufacturing of our Net-Net 9000 series of products to Jabil Circuit, Inc. and TTM Technologies, Inc. We do not have a written agreement with any of these manufacturers. We submit purchase orders to these manufacturers that describe, among other things, the type and quantities of our products or components to be manufactured by the applicable manufacturer and the delivery date and other delivery terms applicable to the products or components. Our manufacturers do not have any written contractual obligation to accept any purchase order that we submit for the manufacture of any of our products or components. If one of our manufacturers accepts in writing a purchase order submitted by us, the manufacturer is legally obligated to manufacture the product or component covered by such purchase order and we are obligated to purchase and take delivery of such product or component. Our reliance on outside manufacturers involves a number of potential risks, including the absence of adequate capacity, the unavailability of, or interruptions in access to, necessary manufacturing processes, and reduced control over delivery schedules. In addition, we cannot be certain or provide any assurance that our manufacturers will accept all of our purchase orders, or any of them, and agree to manufacture and supply any or all of our manufacturing requirements for our products or any components. If our manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products and components in required volumes, we will have to identify one or more acceptable alternative manufacturers. The use of new manufacturers may cause significant interruptions in supply if the new manufacturers have difficulty manufacturing products to our specifications. Certain component parts used in the manufacture of our products are sourced from single or limited sources. If our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain these components on a timely basis, we will not be able to meet our customers’ product delivery requirements, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. Certain key components used in the manufacture of our products are sourced from single or, in some cases, limited sources. For example, the third parties that we hire to manufacture our products, or contract 30 manufacturers, purchase through electronics distributors various types of network processors, traffic managers, microprocessors and network search engines. Specifically, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, Broadcom Corporation, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. and Integrated Device Technology, Inc., are presently the sole sources for these particular components. We do not have a written agreement with any of these component manufacturers to guarantee the supply of the key components used in our products, and we do not require any of our contract manufacturers to have a written agreement with any of these component manufacturers. We have entered into arrangements under which electronics distributors have agreed to establish and maintain at least three months’ inventory of certain key components, and, at the request of our contract manufacturers, to supply all or a portion of the key components held pursuant to this arrangement to our contract manufacturers for use in the manufacture of our products. Our contractual arrangements with the electronics distributors do not provide for these electronics distributors to enter into any contract with any component manufacturer to guarantee the supply of these key components. Our contract manufacturers provide forecasts to the electronics distributors of our contract manufacturers’ requirements of the key components. These electronics distributors use the forecasts to source these key components from time to time, to the extent that the key components are available from the applicable component manufacturers, with the objective of maintaining at all times at least three months’ supply of the key components available for delivery to our contract manufacturers. When our contract manufacturers require certain key components for use in the manufacture of our products, we direct them to issue purchase orders to the applicable electronics distributor and, if the applicable electronics distributor has the requested quantities of these key components available, it will accept the purchase order issued by our contract manufacturers and supply the quantities of the key components covered by the purchase order. Despite these arrangements, we cannot be certain or provide any assurance that the component manufacturers will accept all of the purchase orders, or any of them, issued by the electronics distributors and agree to supply any or all of the quantities requested. Accordingly, we cannot be certain or provide any assurance that these electronics distributors will have at all times at least three months’ supply of these key components or any quantities of the key components in inventory or that our contract manufacturers will be able to source their requirements of the key components from other sources in the event that the electronics distributors cannot meet our contract manufacturers’ requirements. Additionally, if our contract manufacturers underestimate our component requirements, they may not have an adequate supply, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and revenue. If any of our sole or limited source suppliers experience capacity constraints, work stoppages or other reductions or disruptions in output, they may not be able to meet, or may choose not to meet, our delivery schedules. Also our suppliers may: · enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors; · be acquired by our competitors; · stop selling their products or components to us at commercially reasonable prices; · refuse to sell their products or components to us at any price; or · be unable to obtain or have difficulty obtaining components for their products from their suppliers. If our supply of any key components is disrupted, we may be unable to deliver our products to our customers on a timely basis, which could result in lost or delayed revenue, injury to our reputation, increased manufacturing costs and exposure to claims by our customers. Even if alternate suppliers are available, we may have difficulty identifying them in a timely manner, we may incur significant additional expense in changing suppliers, and we may experience difficulties or delays in the manufacturing of our products. For example, we have customized some of our hardware products to accommodate the design of some key components, and the loss of the sole supplier of a key customized component could require that we redesign related components to accommodate replacement components. Any failure to meet our customers’ delivery requirements could harm our reputation and decrease our revenue. 31 Product liability claims related to our customers’ networks could result in substantial costs. Our products are critical to the business operations of our customers. If one of our products fails, interactive communications service provider may assert a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Our product liability insurance may not cover claims brought against us. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any product liability claims, whether or not successful, could seriously damage our reputation and our business. We may undertake acquisitions to further expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. Our business and our customer base have been built through organic growth. While we do not have any present plans to acquire businesses, technologies or services, we may enter into such arrangements in the future in order to expand our capabilities, enter new markets, or increase our market share. We do not have any experience making significant acquisitions. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services is likely to be expensive and time consuming. To finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, and, in the case of equity financings, would result in dilution to our stockholders. If we do complete any acquisitions, we may be unable to operate the acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our strategy successfully. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired entities, technologies or services effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer. The time and expense associated with finding suitable and compatible businesses, technologies or services could also disrupt our ongoing business and divert our management’s attention. Future acquisitions by us could also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumptions of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us, and if it is available, may dilute your ownership of our common stock. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: · fund ongoing operations; · take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion of our business or the acquisition of complementary products, technologies or businesses; · develop new products; or · respond to competitive pressures. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity may dilute the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders. Capital raised through debt financing would require us to make periodic interest payments and may impose potentially restrictive covenants on the conduct of our business. Furthermore, additional financings may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. A failure to obtain additional funding could prevent us from making expenditures that may be required to grow or maintain our operations. Risks Relating Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. Prior to October 13, 2006, there was no public trading market for our common stock. The trading market for our common stock is therefore immature, and the trading price of our common stock may 32 fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations could cause investors to lose part or all of the value of any investment in shares of our common stock. The following factors, most of which are outside of our control, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly: · loss of any of our major customers; · departure of key personnel; · variations in our quarterly operating results; · announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, new products or product enhancements, acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in governmental regulations and standards affecting our business and our products, including implementation of additional regulations relating to IP network communications; · decreases in financial estimates or recommendations by equity research analysts; · sales of common stock or other securities by us in the future; · decreases in market valuations of communications equipment companies; and · fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been initiated against a company following a period of volatility in the market price of the company’s securities. If class action litigation is initiated against us, we will incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations. All of these factors could cause the market price of our stock to decline, and investors may lose some or all of the value of their investment. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. Substantially all of our stockholders prior to the initial public offering are subject to lock-up agreements with the underwriters that restrict their ability to transfer their stock until at least April 2007. Upon expiration of the lock-up agreements, an additional 45,370,278 shares of our common stock will be eligible for sale in the public market. The market price of shares of our common stock may decrease significantly when the restrictions on resale by our existing stockholders lapse and our stockholders are able to sell shares of our common stock into the market. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, and may cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. In addition, the holders of an aggregate of 26,961,039 shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2006 have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their 33 shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We also have registered the issuance of all shares of common stock that we have issued and may issue under our employee option and purchase plans. Having registered the issuance of these shares, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to lock-up agreements. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Insiders continue to have substantial control over Acme Packet and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 62% of our outstanding shares of common stock based on the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2006. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, amalgamation, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, even though such transactions may be in the best interests of other stockholders, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: · delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; · impeding a merger, amalgamation, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or · discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Our corporate documents and Delaware law will make a takeover of our company more difficult, which may limit the market price of our common stock. Our restated charter and bylaws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law will contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Some provisions in our restated charter and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us, which may limit the market price of our common stock and may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. These include: · a classified board of directors; · the ability of the board of directors to issue undesignated shares without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the share ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by the board; · limitations on the removal of directors; and · advance notice requirements for election to the board and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. 34 If our earlier involvement in and hyperlinking to four articles previously posted on our website, or any other publicity regarding our company or our initial public offering during the waiting period associated with the offering were held to violate Section 5 of the Securities Act, we could be required to repurchase shares sold in the initial public offering. We participated in and hyperlinked to a June 7, 2006 NewTelephony.com article entitled “Acme Packet’s Ory on Preparing to Go Public” and an August 2006 TIA PulseOnline Member Spotlight about our company, and we hyperlinked to a June 5, 2006 NetworkingPipeline.com blog article entitled “A VoIP IPO That Actually Makes Sense,” and a June 6, 2006 Datamonitor.com article entitled “SBC Vendor Acme Seeks $85m in IPO.” These articles included information regarding our initial public offering and our company. The NewTelephony.com article included quotes from Andrew D. Ory, our President and Chief Executive Officer, regarding the initial public offering and our reasons for conducting the offering and the TIA PulseOnline member spotlight included quotes from Mr. Ory regarding the development of our company and our business strategy. Neither the NetworkingPipeline.com blog entry nor the Datamonitor.com article included any quotes from us or our employees, but both provided information and commentary on our financial information. While these articles included some of the factual statements about us disclosed in our prospectus, they presented these statements in isolation, did not disclose many of the related risks and uncertainties described in the prospectus or this Annual Report and provided commentary expressing the authors’ opinions of our company and the initial public offering. Notwithstanding our earlier hyperlinking to the articles, the commentary expressed therein reflected the opinions of the authors and should not be attributed to us. It is uncertain whether our involvement or our participation in publicity related activities could be held to violate Section 5 of the Securities Act. If so, we could be required to repurchase the shares sold to purchasers in this offering at the original $9.50 purchase price, plus interest, for a period of one year following the date of the violation. We would contest vigorously any claim that such a violation of the Securities Act had occurred. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 