ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements and financial discussion and analysis by management contained throughout this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements herein include, without limitation, the factors set forth below. Poor Economic Conditions in Our Market Areas May Cause Us to Suffer Higher Default Rates on Our Loans and Leases. A substantial majority of our assets and deposits are generated in the San Joaquin Valley in central California. As a result, poor economic conditions in this region could cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. The local economy currently appears to be experiencing a moderate expansion, and while the Company expects continued improvement, no assurance can be given that this will occur. The San Joaquin Valley has not experienced the same type of growth that has historically occurred in other areas of California, especially those where high-tech industries have taken hold. While this fact minimized the negative impact 14 Table of Contents of the most recent recession, unemployment levels are still relatively high. In the Visalia-Tulare-Porterville Metropolitan Statistical Area (“MSA”), for example, which is our geographic center and the base of our agriculturally oriented communities, the unemployment rate has consistently averaged around 15% for the past several years. While unemployment levels remain relatively high in all of the Company’s markets, in recent years some areas in the south and central San Joaquin Valley have experienced substantial commercial growth. The area’s relatively inexpensive real estate and central proximity to both Southern and Northern California have attracted a growing number of warehouse and distribution facilities, as well as manufacturing, health, and other service companies. The low cost of housing has also drawn retirees from more expensive areas of California. Poor Economic Conditions Affecting the Agricultural Industry Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Customers and Their Ability to Make Payments to Us. The Company’s balance of non-performing assets has been relatively high in years past due in large part to persistent agricultural difficulties. Furthermore, a sizable portion of our total loan portfolio consists of loans to borrowers either directly or indirectly involved in the agricultural industry. While a great number of our borrowers may not be individually involved in agriculture, many of the jobs in the San Joaquin Valley are ancillary to the regular production, processing, marketing and sales of agricultural commodities. The ripple effect of lower commodity prices for milk, nuts, olives, grapes, oranges and tree fruit has a tendency to depress land prices, lower borrower income, and decrease collateral values. Weather patterns in particular are of critical importance to row crop, tree fruit, and orange production. A degenerative cycle of weather and commodity prices can impact consumer purchasing power, which has the potential to create further unemployment throughout the San Joaquin Valley. Global competition is another significant issue affecting the agricultural industry. Because of increased global competition and other factors, excess supply and low prices currently characterize the markets for many agricultural products. If current agricultural conditions do not improve, our level of non-performing assets could increase. Such conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our borrower base and, by extension, our business. Concentrations of Real Estate Loans Could Subject Us to Increased Risks in the Event of a Real Estate Recession or Natural Disaster. Our loan portfolio is heavily concentrated in real estate loans, particularly commercial real estate. At December 31, 2005, 72% of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate. Between the end of 2001 and the end of 2005, our loans secured by commercial/professional office properties (including construction and development loans) increased from 40% to 49% of total loans, while loans secured by residential properties have decreased from 22% to 17% of total loans. In the early 1990’s, the entire state of California experienced an economic recession that particularly impacted real estate values and resulted in increases in the level of delinquencies and losses for many financial institutions. Much of our market area seems to have been insulated from the significant fluctuations in real estate prices experienced by other parts of California over the past few decades. However, over the past few years real estate values in our market areas have escalated at least as rapidly as in other parts of the state, and the collateral for many of our loans could be reduced in value and the ability of some of our borrowers to pay could decline if a real estate recession affects our market areas in the future. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural disaster like those California has experienced in the past, including earthquakes, brush fires, and flooding, could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans and negatively impact our results of operations. We May Have Difficulty Managing Our Growth. Management intends to leverage the Company’s current infrastructure to grow assets, and the addition of new branches has been tentatively planned, although no assurance can be given that this strategy will result in significant growth. Our ability to manage growth will depend primarily on our ability to: • monitor and manage expanded operations; • control funding costs and operating expenses; • maintain positive customer relations; and • attract, assimilate and retain qualified personnel. If we fail to achieve these objectives in an efficient and timely manner we may experience disruptions in our business plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Our Earnings are Subject to Interest Rate Risk. The earnings of most financial institutions depend largely on the relationship between the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings, and the yield on earning assets such as loans and investment securities. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic, regulatory and competitive factors that influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of non-performing assets. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the demand of customers for our products and services, and the Company is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than our interest-earning assets. Given the current volume, mix, and re-pricing characteristics of the Company’s interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, our interest rate spread is expected to increase slightly in a rising rate environment, and decrease slightly in a declining interest rate scenario. However, there are scenarios where fluctuations in interest rates in either direction could have a negative effect on net income. For example, if funding rates rise faster than asset yields in a rising rate environment (i.e., if basis compression occurs), or if we do not actively manage certain loan index rates in a declining rate environment, we would be negatively impacted. We Operate in a Competitive Market Dominated by Banks and Other Financial Services Providers, Many of Which Have Lower Cost Structures and Offer More Services. In California generally, and in our primary service area specifically, branches of major banks dominate the commercial banking industry. By virtue of their larger capital base, such institutions have substantially greater lending limits than we do, and perform certain functions for their customers, including trust services and international banking, which we are not equipped to offer directly (but some of which we offer indirectly through correspondent relationships). Many of these banks also operate with economies of scale that result in lower operating costs relative to revenue generated. We also compete with other financial institutions such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, thrift and loan companies, mortgage companies, securities brokerage companies and insurance companies, and with quasi-financial institutions such as money market funds for deposits and loans. Financial services like ours are increasingly offered over the Internet on a national and international basis, and we compete with providers of these services as well. Ultimately, competition can drive down our interest margins and reduce our profitability. It can also make it more difficult for us to continue to increase the size of our loan and deposit portfolios. You May Have Difficulty Selling Your Shares in the Future If a More Active Trading Market for Our Stock Does Not Develop. Although Sierra Bancorp’s Common Stock has been listed on the NASDAQ National Market since August 10, 2001 (the effective date of the holding company reorganization) and Bank of the Sierra’s Common Stock was previously listed on the NASDAQ National Market since June 10, 1999, trading in our stock has not been extensive and cannot be characterized as amounting to an active trading market. We May Experience Loan and Lease Losses in Excess of Our Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses. We are careful in our loan underwriting process in order to limit the risk that borrowers might fail to repay; nevertheless, losses can and do occur. We create an allowance for estimated loan and lease losses in our accounting records, based on estimates of the following: • industry standards; • historical experience with our loans; • evaluation of economic conditions; • regular reviews of the quality mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; • regular reviews of delinquencies; and • the quality of the collateral underlying our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses at a level that we believe is adequate to absorb any specifically identified losses as well as any other losses inherent in our loan portfolio. However, changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that are beyond our control, may cause our actual loan losses to exceed our current allowance estimates. If actual losses exceed the amount reserved, it will have a negative impact on our profitability. In addition, the FDIC and the DFI, as part of their supervisory functions, periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses. Such agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan and lease losses or to recognize further losses, based on their judgments, which may be different from those of our management. Any increase in the allowance required by the FDIC or the DFI could also hurt our business. 16 Table of Contents Our Directors and Executive Officers Control a Near-Majority of Our Stock, and Your Interests May Not Always be the Same as Those of the Board and Management. As of December 31, 2005, our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned approximately 48% of the Bank’s outstanding voting stock (including vested option shares). As a result, if all of these shareholders were to take a common position, they could most likely control the outcome of most corporate actions, such as: • approval of mergers or other business combinations; • sales of all or substantially all of our assets; • any matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders; • issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities; • incurrence of debt other than in the ordinary course of business; • the selection and tenure of our Chief Executive Officer; and • payment of dividends on common stock or other equity securities. In some situations, the interests of our directors and executive officers may be different from yours. However, our Board of Directors and executive officers have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the shareholders, rather than in their own best interests, when considering a proposed business combination or any of these types of matters. Provisions in Our Articles of Incorporation Will Delay or Prevent Changes in Control of Our Corporation or Our Management. These provisions make it more difficult for another company to acquire us, which could reduce the market price of our common stock and the price that you receive if you sell your shares in the future. These provisions include the following: • staggered terms of office for members of the board of directors; • the elimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • the requirement that our Board of Directors consider the potential social and economic effects on our employees, depositors, customers and the communities we serve as well as certain other factors, when evaluating a possible tender offer, merger or other acquisition of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 