ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Please consider the following risk factors carefully. If any one of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, these are not the only risks we face. Risks Relating to Overstock We have a history of significant losses. If we do not achieve profitability, our financial condition and our stock price could suffer. We have a history of losses and we may continue to incur operating and net losses for the foreseeable future. We incurred net losses of $101.8 million and $45.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $243.7 million. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability, and we may not be able to do so. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If our revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial results would be harmed. We will continue to incur significant operating expenses and some capital expenditures to: •enhance our distribution and order fulfillment capabilities; •further improve our order processing systems and capabilities; •develop enhanced technologies and features; •expand our customer service capabilities to better serve our customers' needs; •expand or modify our product offerings; •rent or terminate warehouse and office space; •increase our general and administrative functions to support our operations; and •maintain or increase our sales, branding and marketing activities, including maintaining existing or entering into new online marketing or marketing analytics arrangements, and continuing or increasing our national television and radio advertising and direct mail campaigns. Because we will incur many of these expenses before we receive any revenues from our efforts, our losses may be greater than the losses we would incur if we developed our business more slowly. Further, we base our expenses in large part on our operating plans and future revenue projections. Many of our expenses are fixed in the short term, and we may not be able to quickly reduce spending if our revenues are lower than we project. Therefore, any significant shortfall in revenues would likely harm our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may find that these efforts are more expensive than we currently anticipate which would further increase our losses. Also, the timing of these expenses may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. The seasonality of our business places increased strain on our operations. We expect a disproportionate amount of our net sales to occur during our fourth quarter. If we do not stock or restock popular products in sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. If we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. We may experience an increase in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. If too many customers access our Website within a short period of time due to increased holiday demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our Website unavailable or prevent us from efficiently 17 fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service co-sourcers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. If we fail to accurately forecast our expenses and revenues, our business, operating results and financial condition may suffer and the price of our securities may decline. Our limited operating history and the rapidly evolving nature of our industry make forecasting operating results difficult. We have recently completed several large, complex and expensive infrastructure upgrades in order to increase our ability to handle larger volumes of sales and to develop or increase our ability to perform a variety of analytical procedures relating to our business, and we are continuing the work to upgrade and further expand these and other components of our infrastructure. We have experienced difficulties with the implementation of various aspects to the upgrades of our infrastructure, and have incurred increased expenses as a result of these difficulties. As a result of these expenditures, our ability to quickly reduce spending if our revenues are lower than we project is limited. Therefore, any significant shortfall in the revenues for which we have built and are continuing to build our infrastructure would likely harm our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition and cause our results of operation to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the price of our securities may decline. We depend on our relationships with third party fulfillment partners for a large portion of the products that we offer for sale on our Website. If we fail to maintain these relationships, our business will suffer. At December 31, 2007, we had fulfillment partner relationships with approximately 730 third parties whose products we offer for sale on our Website. We depend on our fulfillment partners to provide a large portion of the product selection we offer, as these products accounted for approximately 90% of the non-BMMG products available on our Website. We plan to continue to expand the number of fulfillment partner relationships and the number of products offered for sale by our fulfillment partners on our Website. We do not have any long-term agreements with any of these third parties. Our agreements with third parties are terminable at will by either party immediately upon notice. In general, we agree to offer the third parties' products on our Website and these third parties agree to provide us with information about their products, honor our customer service policies and ship the products directly to the customer. If we do not maintain our existing relationships or build new relationships with third parties on acceptable commercial terms, we may not be able to offer a broad selection of merchandise, and customers may refuse to shop at our Website. In addition, manufacturers may decide not to offer particular products for sale on the Internet. If we are unable to maintain our existing or build new fulfillment partner relationships or if other product manufacturers refuse to allow their products to be sold via the Internet, our business and prospects would suffer severely. We are partially dependent on third parties to fulfill a number of our fulfillment, distribution and other retail functions. If such parties are unwilling or unable to continue providing these services, our business could be seriously harmed. In our fulfillment partner business, although we handle returned merchandise, we continue to rely on third parties to conduct a number of other traditional retail operations with respect to their respective products that we offer for sale on our Website, including maintaining inventory, preparing merchandise for shipment to individual customers and timely distribution of purchased merchandise. We have no effective means to ensure that these third parties will continue to perform these services to our satisfaction or on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, because we do not take possession of these third parties' products, we are unable to fulfill these traditional retail operations ourselves. Our 18 customers could become dissatisfied and cancel their orders or decline to make future purchases if these third parties are unable to deliver products on a timely basis. If our customers become dissatisfied with the services provided by these third parties, our reputation and the Overstock.com brand could suffer. We rely on our relationships with manufacturers, retailers and other suppliers to obtain sufficient quantities of quality merchandise on acceptable terms. If we fail to maintain our supplier relationships on acceptable terms, our sales and profitability could suffer. To date, we have not entered into contracts with manufacturers or liquidation wholesalers that guarantee the availability of merchandise for a set duration. Our contracts or arrangements with suppliers do not provide for the continuation of particular pricing practices and may be terminated by either party at any time. Our current suppliers may not continue to sell their excess inventory to us on current terms or at all and we may not be able to establish new supply relationships. For example, it is difficult for us to maintain high levels of product quality and selection because none of the manufacturers, suppliers and liquidation wholesalers from whom we purchase products on a purchase order by purchase order basis have a continuing obligation to provide us with merchandise at historical levels or at all. In most cases, our relationships with our suppliers do not restrict the suppliers from selling their respective excess inventory to other traditional or online merchandise liquidators, which could in turn limit the selection of products available on our Website. If we are unable to develop and maintain relationships with suppliers that will allow us to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on acceptable commercial terms, such inability could harm our business, prospects, results of operation and financial condition. We depend upon third-party delivery services to deliver our products to our customers on a timely and consistent basis. Deterioration in our relationship with any one of these third parties could decrease our ability to track shipments, cause shipment delays, and increase our shipping costs and the number of damaged products. We rely upon multiple third parties for the shipment of our products. We cannot be sure that these relationships will continue on terms favorable to us, if at all. Unexpected increases in shipping costs or delivery times, particularly during the holiday season, could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If our relationships with these third parties are terminated or impaired or if these third parties are unable to deliver products for us, whether through labor shortage, slow down or stoppage, deteriorating financial or business condition, responses to terrorist attacks or for any other reason, we would be required to use alternative carriers for the shipment of products to our customers. In addition, conditions such as adverse weather can prevent any carriers from performing their delivery services, which can have an adverse effect on our customers' satisfaction with us. In any of these circumstances, we may be unable to engage alternative carriers on a timely basis, upon terms favorable to us, or at all. Changing carriers would likely have a negative effect on our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. Potential adverse consequences include: •reduced visibility of order status and package tracking; •delays in order processing and product delivery; •increased cost of delivery, resulting in reduced gross margins; and •reduced shipment quality, which may result in damaged products and customer dissatisfaction. 19 A significant number of merchandise returns could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We allow our customers to return products. If merchandise returns are significant, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We modify our policies relating to returns from time to time and any policies intended to reduce the number of product returns may result in customer dissatisfaction and fewer repeat customers. If the products that we offer on our Website do not reflect our customers' tastes and preferences, our sales and profit margins would decrease. Our success depends in part on our ability to offer products that reflect consumers' tastes and preferences. Consumers' tastes are subject to frequent, significant and sometimes unpredictable changes. Because some of the products that we sell consist of manufacturers' and retailers' excess inventory, we have limited control over some of the specific products that we are able to offer for sale. If our merchandise fails to satisfy customers' tastes or respond to changes in customer preferences, our sales could suffer and we could be required to mark down unsold inventory which would depress our profit margins. In addition, any failure to offer products in line with customers' preferences could allow our competitors to gain market share. This could have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We face risks relating to our inventory. We directly purchase some of the merchandise that we sell on our Website. We assume the inventory damage, theft and obsolescence risks, as well as price erosion risks for products that we purchase directly. These risks are especially significant because some of the merchandise we sell on our Website is characterized by rapid technological change, obsolescence and price erosion (for example, computer hardware, software and consumer electronics) and because we sometimes make large purchases of particular types of inventory. In addition, we often do not receive warranties on the merchandise we purchase. We accept returns of products sold through our fulfillment partners and we have the risk of reselling the returned products. In the recent past we have recorded charges for obsolete inventory and have had to sell certain merchandise at a discount or loss. It is impossible to determine with certainty whether an item will sell for more than the price we pay for it. To the extent that we rely on purchased inventory, our success will depend on our ability to liquidate our inventory rapidly, the ability of our buying staff to purchase inventory at attractive prices relative to its resale value and our ability to manage customer returns and the shrinkage resulting from theft, loss and misrecording of inventory. If we are unsuccessful in any of these areas, we may be forced to sell our inventory at a discount or loss. We purchase inventory from foreign markets and pay for inventory with U.S. dollars. If the dollar weakens with respect to foreign currencies, foreign vendors may require us to pay higher prices for products, which could negatively affect our gross margins. If we do not successfully optimize and operate our warehouse and customer service operations, our business could be harmed. If we do not successfully optimize and operate our warehouse and customer service operations, it could significantly limit our ability to meet customer demand. Because it is difficult to predict demand, we may not manage our facilities in an optimal way, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory or warehousing capacity. We may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers. In addition, we rely on a limited number of companies to deliver inventory to us and to ship orders to our customers. If we are not able to negotiate acceptable terms with these companies, or they 20 experience performance problems or other difficulties, it could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. The loss of key personnel or any inability to attract and retain additional personnel could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and on the performance of our senior management and other key personnel, including Patrick M. Byrne, our Chief Executive Officer. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate other officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees for any unforeseen reason, including without limitation, illness or call to military service, could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have employment agreements with any of our key personnel and we do not maintain "key person" life insurance policies. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly-skilled technical, managerial, editorial, merchandising, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. Our failure to retain and attract the necessary technical, managerial, editorial, merchandising, marketing and customer service personnel could harm our revenues, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have a rapidly evolving business model. Our business model has evolved and continues to do so. In the past we have added additional types of services and product offerings and in some cases, we have modified or discontinued those offerings. We may continue to try to offer additional types of products or services and we cannot offer any assurance that any of them will be successful. From time to time we have also modified aspects of our business model relating to our product mix and the mix of direct/fulfillment partner sourcing of the products we offer. We may continue to modify this aspect of our business as well as other significant aspects of our business. We cannot offer any assurance that these or any other modifications will be successful. We may be unable to manage expansion into new business areas which could harm our business operations and reputation. Our long-term strategic plan involves expansion of our operations to offer additional types of products and services. We cannot assure you that our efforts to expand our business in this manner will succeed. Our failure to succeed in these markets or businesses or in other product or service offerings may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our operations in a cost-effective or timely manner or that our efforts to expand will be successful. Furthermore, any new business or website we launch that is not favorably received by consumers could damage our reputation or the Overstock.com brand. We may expand the number of categories of products we carry on our Website and these and any other expansions of our operations would also require significant additional expenses and development and would strain our management, financial and operational resources. The lack of market acceptance of such efforts or our inability to generate satisfactory revenues from such expanded services or products to offset their cost could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 21 We may expand our international business, causing our business to become increasingly susceptible to numerous international business risks and challenges that could affect our profitability. We plan to begin selling products in international markets, and in the future we may expand into these markets more aggressively. International sales and transactions are subject to inherent risks and challenges that could adversely affect our profitability, including: •the need to develop new supplier and manufacturer relationships; •the need to comply with additional laws and regulations to the extent applicable; •unexpected changes in international regulatory requirements and tariffs; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •longer payment cycles from credit card companies; •greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; •potential adverse tax consequences; •price controls or other restrictions on foreign currency; and •difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses. To the extent we generate international sales and transactions in the future, any negative impact on our international operations could negatively impact our business. In particular, gains and losses on the conversion of foreign payments into United States dollars may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and fluctuating exchange rates could cause reduced gross revenues and/or gross margins from non-dollar-denominated international sales. In order to obtain future revenue growth and achieve and sustain profitability, we will have to attract and retain customers on cost-effective terms. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain customers on cost-effective terms. We have relationships with online services, search engines, directories and other Website and e-commerce businesses to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our Website. We rely on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to our Website and to generate new customers. If we are unable to develop or maintain these relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers and our financial condition could be harmed. In addition, certain of our online marketing agreements may require us to pay upfront fees and make other payments prior to the realization of the sales, if any, associated with those payments. Accordingly, if these agreements or similar agreements that we may enter into in the future fail to produce the sales that we anticipate, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our revenues, if at all, in a cost-effective manner. We periodically conduct national television and radio branding and advertising campaigns. Such campaigns are expensive and may not result in the cost effective acquisition of customers. Further, many of the parties with which we may have online-advertising arrangements could provide advertising services for other online or traditional retailers and merchandise liquidators. As a result, these parties may be reluctant to enter into or maintain relationships with us. Failure to achieve sufficient traffic or generate sufficient revenue from purchases originating from third parties may result in termination of these relationships by these third parties. Without these relationships, our revenues, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. 22 We may not be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. The online liquidation services market is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Barriers to entry are minimal, and current and new competitors can launch new Websites at a relatively low cost. Our consumer Website currently competes with: •liquidation e-tailers such as SmartBargains; •online retailers with discount departments such as Amazon.com, Inc., eBay, Inc. and Buy.com, Inc.; and •online specialty retailers such as BlueNile and BackCountry; •traditional retailers and liquidators such as Ross Stores, Inc., Walmart Stores, Inc., TJX Companies, Inc., Costco Wholesale Corporation, Target Corporation, Best Buy Co., Inc., and Barnes and Noble, Inc., which may or may not also have an online presence. Our Website competes with liquidation "brokers" and retailers and online marketplaces such as eBay, Inc. We expect the online liquidation services market to become even more competitive as traditional liquidators and online retailers continue to develop services that compete with our services. In addition, manufacturers and retailers may decide to create their own Website to sell their own excess inventory and the excess inventory of third parties. Competitive pressures created by any one of our competitors, or by our competitors collectively, could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. For example, to the extent that we enter new lines of businesses such as third-party logistics, or discount brick and mortar retail, we would be competing with large established businesses such as APL Logistics, and Ltd., Ross Stores, Inc., respectively. We have recently entered the online auctions and car listing businesses in which we compete with large established businesses including eBay, Inc. and AutoTrader.com, Inc. Many of our current and potential competitors described above have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, online retailers and liquidation e-tailers may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with larger, well-established and well-financed companies. Some of our competitors may be able to secure merchandise from manufacturers on more favorable terms, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing or inventory availability policies and devote substantially more resources to Website and systems development than we do. Increased competition may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and a diminished brand franchise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our operating results depend on our Website, network infrastructure and transaction-processing systems. Capacity constraints or system failures would harm our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Any system interruptions that result in the unavailability of our Website or reduced performance of our transaction systems would reduce our transaction volume and the attractiveness of the services that we provide to suppliers and third parties and would harm our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. 23 We use internally developed systems for our Website and certain aspects of transaction processing, including customer profiling and order verifications. We have experienced periodic systems interruptions due to server failure, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. If the volume of traffic on our Website or the number of purchases made by customers substantially increases, we will need to further expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience temporary capacity constraints due to sharply increased traffic during sales or other promotions and during the holiday shopping season. Capacity constraints can cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, and degradation in levels of customer service, impaired quality and delays in reporting accurate financial information. Our transaction processing systems and network infrastructure may be unable to accommodate increases in traffic in the future. We may be unable to project accurately the rate or timing of traffic increases or successfully upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate future traffic levels on our Website. In addition, we may be unable to upgrade and expand our transaction processing systems in an effective and timely manner or to integrate any newly developed or purchased functionality with our existing systems. For example, in the third quarter 2005 we experienced difficulties with our implementation of infrastructure upgrades, which resulted in our inability to upload new products to our Website for a period of approximately five weeks. Any such difficulties with our transaction processing systems or other difficulties upgrading, expanding or integrating various aspects of our systems may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, and degradation in levels of customer service, additional expense, impaired quality and speed of order fulfillment or delays in reporting accurate financial information. If the facility where substantially all of our computer and communications hardware is located fails, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be harmed. Our success, and in particular, our ability to successfully receive and fulfill orders and provide high-quality customer service, largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. Substantially all of our computer and communications hardware is located at a single co-location facility in Salt Lake City, Utah, with a partially redundant back-up system located near our corporate headquarters in Salt Lake City. Although we have designed our back-up system in an effort to avoid or minimize service interruptions in the event of a failure of our main facility, our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. Our disaster recovery plan may be inadequate, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the inability to accept and fulfill customer orders. The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology or keep up with that of our competitors. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We may be unable to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information, detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. In addition, our competitors could, without violating our proprietary rights, develop technologies that are as good as or better than our technology. Our failure to protect our software and other proprietary intellectual property rights or to develop technologies that are as good as our competitors' could put us at a disadvantage to our competitors. In addition, the failure of the third parties whose products we offer for sale on our Website to protect 24 their intellectual property rights, including their domain names, could impair our operations. These failures could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. Other parties also may claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, legal claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. The ready availability of damages, royalties and the potential for injunctive relief has increased the defense litigation costs of patent infringement claims, especially those asserted by third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in significant expenditure of financial and managerial resources, and the payment of damages or settlement amounts. Additionally, we may become subject to injunctions prohibiting us from using software or business processes we currently use or may need to use in the future, or requiring us to obtain licenses from third parties when such licenses may not be available on financially feasible terms or terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in providing e-commerce services to other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. If we do not respond to rapid technological changes, our services could become obsolete and we could lose customers. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our e-commerce businesses. We may face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements. If this happens, our customers may forgo the use of our Website and use those of our competitors. The Internet and the online commerce industry are rapidly changing. If competitors introduce new products and services using new technologies or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing Website and our proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. Our failure to respond to technological change or to adequately maintain, upgrade and develop our computer network and the systems used to process customers' orders and payments could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain trademark protection for our marks, which could impede our efforts to build brand identity. We have filed trademark applications with the Patent and Trademark Office seeking registration of certain service marks and trademarks. There can be no assurance that our applications will be successful or that we will be able to secure significant protection for our service marks or trademarks in the United States or elsewhere as we expand internationally. Our competitors or others could adopt product or service marks similar to our marks, or try to prevent us from using our marks, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. Any claim by another party against us or customer confusion related to our trademarks, or our failure to obtain trademark registration, could negatively affect our business. We may not be able to enforce protection of our intellectual property rights under the laws of other countries. As we begin to sell products internationally, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally as related to our intellectual property, including: •legal uncertainty regarding liability for the listings and other content provided by our users, including uncertainty as a result of less Internet-friendly legal systems, unique local laws, and lack of clear precedent or applicable law; and 25 •differing intellectual property laws, which may provide insufficient protection for our intellectual property. Our business and reputation may be harmed by the listing or sale of pirated, counterfeit or illegal items by third parties, and by intellectual property litigation. We have received in the past, and we anticipate we will receive in the future, communications alleging that certain items listed or sold through our Website infringe third-party copyrights, trademarks and trade names or other intellectual property rights or that we have otherwise infringed third parties' past, current or future intellectual property rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from listing unlawful goods, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by third parties through our Website. In the future, we may implement measures to protect against these potential liabilities that could require us to spend substantial resources and/or to reduce revenues by discontinuing certain service offerings. Any costs incurred as a result of liability or asserted liability relating to the sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of goods could harm our revenues, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Resolving litigation or claims regarding patents or other intellectual property, whether meritorious or not, could be costly, time-consuming, cause service delays, divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, require expensive or unwanted changes in our methods of doing business or require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, if available. As a result, these claims could harm our business. Negative publicity generated as a result of the foregoing could damage our reputation, harm our business and diminish the value of our brand name. Our Gradient Analytics and Rocker Partners, L.P. litigation may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In August 2005 we filed an unfair business practice lawsuit against Gradient Analytics, Rocker Partners, LP and others, alleging that the defendants have conspired to denigrate Overstock's business for personal profit. In October 2005 we filed an amended complaint alleging additional causes of action and articulating in greater detail the allegations against the defendants. In November 2007, Copper River Partners, L.P. (formerly known as Rocker Partners, LP) filed a cross-complaint against us and some of our current and former directors. In January 2008, Gradient Analytics requested the court that it be allowed to file against us and our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Patrick Byrne. Dr. Byrne has appeared on nationally syndicated television programs and elsewhere to discuss the litigation. The use of management's time and attention in connection with the litigation and related matters may reduce the time management is able to spend on other aspects of our business, which may have adverse effects on other aspects of our business. To the extent that any such adverse effects exceed any benefits we may realize from pursuing the litigation, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation may suffer. Our Prime Broker litigation may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In February 2007, along with five shareholder plaintiffs, we filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of California, County of San Francisco against Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Goldman Sachs & Co., Bear Stearns Companies, Inc., Bank of America Securities LLC, Bank of New York, Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse (USA) Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., and UBS Financial Services, Inc. In September 2007, we filed an amended complaint adding Lehman Brothers, Inc. as an additional defendant and articulating in greater detail 26 the allegations against the defendants. The use of management's time and attention in connection with the litigation and related matters may reduce the time management is able to spend on other aspects of our business, which may have adverse effects on other aspects of our business. To the extent that any such adverse effects exceed any benefits we may realize from pursuing the litigation, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation may suffer. We may be liable if third parties misappropriate our customers' personal information. If third parties are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers' personal information or credit card information, or if we give third parties improper access to our customers' personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims or damages for alleged violations of state or federal laws governing security protocols for the safekeeping of customers' personal or credit card information. This liability could also include claims for other misuses of personal information, including unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims could result in litigation. Liability for misappropriation of this information could adversely affect our business. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies have been investigating various Internet companies regarding their use of personal information. We could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy practices. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information such as customer credit card numbers. We cannot assure you that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could harm our reputation, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. We cannot assure you that our security measures will prevent security breaches or that failure to prevent such security breaches will not harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims that could be costly and time consuming. We sell products manufactured for us by third parties, some of which may be defective. If any product that we sell were to cause physical injury or injury to property, the injured party or parties could bring claims against us as the manufacturer and/or retailer of the product. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover every claim that could be asserted. If a successful claim were brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, it could adversely affect our business. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and could have a negative impact on our business. The promissory notes we hold in connection with the sale of our travel business are risky. As part of the sale of our travel business, we now hold senior and junior promissory notes issued by the purchaser. Both of these notes are in the principal amount of $3,000,000. The security on the senior note is the stock of the travel company we sold. There is no security on the junior note, which note also may be subordinated to all other debt of the travel company, and, according to the junior note terms, is not in default so long as the senior debt is outstanding. In the event of default on one or both of these notes, it is possible that stock held as security on the note will have lost some or all of its 27 value. If the purchaser defaults on one or both of these notes, and we are unable to collect or realize comparable value by foreclosing on the stock held as security, the notes could have little or no value. We have significant indebtedness. In connection with our sale of our 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes (the "Senior Notes") in November 2004, we incurred $120.0 million of indebtedness, due December 1, 2011. Under the repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors in 2005, we retired $33.0 million and $10.0 million of the Senior Notes in June and November 2005. As of December 31, 2007, $77.0 million of the Senior Notes remained outstanding. As a result of this indebtedness, our principal and interest payment obligations increased substantially. The degree to which we are leveraged could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations is dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate cash flow from operations to make interest payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors. We cannot control many of these factors, including general economic conditions and the health of the internet retail industry. If our operations do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt service obligations, we may need to borrow additional funds to make these payments or undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, or reducing or delaying capital investments and acquisitions. Additional funds or alternative financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or obtain additional funds or alternative financing on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to our Auctions Site Business Our auctions business is a new business. Our auctions business began operation in September 2004. The online auctions business is a new business for us, and we cannot ensure that our expansion into the online auctions business will succeed. Our entry into the online auctions business will require us to devote substantial financial, technical, managerial and other resources to the business. It will also expose us to additional risks, including legal and regulatory risks, and it will require us to compete with established businesses having substantially greater experience in the online auctions business and substantially greater resources than we have. Our auctions business may be subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. Many states and other jurisdictions, including Utah, where our company is located, have regulations governing the conduct of traditional "auctions" and the liability of traditional "auctioneers" in conducting auctions. Although the vast majority of these regulations clearly contemplated only traditional auctions, not online auctions, the potential application of these types of regulations to online auction sites is not clear. We are aware that several states and some foreign jurisdictions have attempted to impose such regulations on other companies operating online auction sites or on the users of those sites. In addition, certain states have laws or regulations that do expressly apply to online auction site services. Although we do not expect these laws to have a significant effect on our auction site business, we will incur costs in complying with these laws, and we may from time to time be 28 required to make changes in our business that may increase our costs, reduce our revenues, cause us to prohibit the listing of certain items in certain locations, or make other changes that may adversely affect our auctions business. Current and future laws could affect our auctions business. Like our shopping site business, our auction site business is subject to the same laws and regulations that apply to other companies conducting business on and off the Internet. In addition, our auction site business may be affected by other laws and regulations, such as those that expressly apply to online auction site services. Further, because of the wide range of items that users of our auctions service may choose to list on the site, a variety of additional laws and regulations may apply to transactions between users of our site, such as those requiring a license to sell or purchase certain items or mandating particular disclosures in connection with an offer or sale of an item. At least one state recently proposed legislation that sought to prohibit the sale of certain items through internet auction without similar application of the law to traditional retail establishments, online or printed classified advertising publications, or other types of sales list services. To the extent that such current or future laws or regulations prevent or inhibit users from selling items on our auction site, or to the extent these laws discriminate against internet auctions or apply in a discriminatory fashion, they could harm our business. Our business may be harmed if our auctions business is used for unlawful transactions. The law regarding the potential liability of an online auction service for the activities of its users is not clear. We prohibit the listing of numerous categories of items in an effort to reduce the possibility that users of our auction site will engage in an unlawful transaction. However, we cannot assure that users of the site will comply with all laws and regulations applicable to them and their transactions, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for any unlawful activities conducted by them. Any costs we incur as a result of any such allegations, as a result of actual or alleged unlawful transactions utilizing our site, or in our efforts to prevent any such transactions, may harm our business. In addition, any negative publicity we receive regarding any such transactions or allegations may damage our reputation, our ability to attract new customers to our main shopping site, and the Overstock.com brand name generally. Fraudulent activities using our auctions business and disputes between users of our auctions business may harm our business. We are aware that other companies operating online auction services have periodically received complaints from users alleging that they have not received the purchase price or the goods they expected to receive and that, in some cases, users have been arrested and convicted for engaging in fraudulent activities using those companies' auction sites. We may receive similar complaints. We do not have the ability to require users of our services to fulfill their obligations to make payments or to deliver items. We are aware that other companies periodically receive complaints from buyers about the quality of the items they purchase, requests for reimbursement of amounts paid, and communications threatening or commencing legal actions against them. We may receive similar complaints, requests and communications in connection with our auctions business. We are subject to risks associated with information transmitted through our auctions service. The law relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or disseminated through their services is currently unsettled. Claims could be made against online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through their services. We are aware that private lawsuits seeking to impose 29 liability under a number of these theories have been brought against other companies operating auction sites. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has been proposed that would prohibit or impose liability for the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our auctions service permits users to make comments regarding other users. Although all such comments are generated by users and not by us, we are aware that claims of defamation or other injury have been made against other companies operating auction services in the past and could be made in the future against us for comments made by users. Recent court decisions have narrowed the scope of the immunity provided to Internet service providers like us under the Communications Decency Act. This trend, if continued, may increase our potential liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our site. Difficulties or negative publicity associated with our auctions business could affect our main shopping site business. Any significant operational or other difficulties we encounter with our auctions business could damage our reputation, our ability to attract new customers to our main shopping site, and the Overstock.com brand name generally. Negative publicity resulting from actual or alleged fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our auctions business could also damage our reputation, our ability to attract new customers to our main shopping site, and the Overstock.com brand name generally. Risks Relating to our Cars Site Business Our cars site is a new business. Our car listing site began operation in December 2006. The car listing site is a listing service for automobile sellers. The online car listing service is a new business for us. We cannot ensure that our expansion into the car listing business will succeed. Our entry into this business will require us to devote substantial financial, technical, managerial and other resources to this car listing site. It will also expose us to additional risks, including legal and regulatory risks, and it will require us to compete with established businesses having substantially greater experience in the online car listing service business and substantially greater resources than we have. Our car listing business may be subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. Many states and other jurisdictions, including Utah, where we are located, have regulations governing the conduct of car sellers and public advertisement for car sales. Generally, these regulations govern the conduct of those sellers advertising their automobiles for sale and are not directly applicable to those providing the medium through which the advertisement is made available to the public. Sellers are often subject to regulations in the nature of "truth in advertising laws." The application of these regulations to online car listing service providers is not clear. Although we do not expect these laws to have a significant effect on our car listing business, we will incur costs in researching and complying with these laws, and we may from time to time be required to make changes in our business that may increase our costs, reduce our revenues, cause us to prohibit certain listing or advertising practices, or make other changes that may adversely affect our car listing business. Current and future laws could affect our car listing business. Like our shopping business, our car listing business is subject to the same laws and regulations that apply to other companies conducting business on and off the Internet. In addition, our car listing business may be affected by other laws and regulations, such as those that expressly apply to advertising automobiles for sale. To the extent that such current or future laws or regulations prevent users from selling items on our car listing site, they could harm our business. 30 Our business may be harmed if our car listing site is used for unlawful transactions. The law regarding the potential liability of an online listing service for automobile sales is not clear. The platform of the listing service will be accessible to those subscribers who will have the ability to feature their cars for sale and will supply the text descriptions of the vehicles, including the general condition of the vehicle and other important information. We will have no ability beforehand to know if the information sellers provide is correct. While our site terms and conditions of usage will prohibit unlawful acts, we cannot rule out the possibility that users of our car listing site will engage in unlawful transactions, or fail to comply with all laws and regulations applicable to them and their transactions. We may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for any unlawful activities conducted by such users. Any costs we incur as a result of any such allegations, as a result of actual or alleged unlawful transactions utilizing our site, or in our efforts to prevent any such transactions, may harm our business. In addition, any negative publicity we receive regarding any such transactions or allegations may damage our reputation, our ability to attract new customers to our main shopping site, and the Overstock.com brand name generally. Fraudulent activities using our car listing site and disputes between users of our car listing site may harm our business. We are aware that other companies operating online car listing services have periodically received complaints from users alleging improprieties in connection with listings and occasionally these complaints may result in regulatory action. Particularly, with any online listing service there is the possibility that sellers may attempt to employ "bait and switch" techniques, attracting consumers with advertisements of low cost, good condition vehicles in hopes of switching buyer interest to another less favorable vehicle once a potential purchaser responds. Additionally, sellers may attempt to sell vehicles without accurate descriptions of the condition of the vehicles. We do not have the ability to require users of our services to fulfill their obligations to make accurate disclosures or comply with consumer laws prohibiting "bait and switch" or other prohibited seller tactics. We are aware that other companies providing similar services periodically receive complaints from vehicle purchasers about the quality of the vehicles they purchase, requesting reimbursement of amounts they have paid, threatening or commencing legal actions against the listing service for damages. We may receive similar complaints, requests and communications, and encounter similar legal actions in connection with our cars listing business, which may harm our business or reputation among consumers. Risks Relating to our Community Site Business Our Community site began operation in February 2006 with the introduction of Omuse, an Overstock supported, collaborative writing platform. Omuse allows Community site users to read about and or write "guides" about a universe of subjects in which they may have a particular expertise or interest. The Community site when fully deployed will also have services intended to establish user forum participation, provide customers access to recent news about Overstock and allow users the opportunity to participate in forum reading and writing, to create weblogs or post comments to the weblogs or "blogs" of other site users, or in our Omuse collaborative writing platform. Presently Omuse is the only operating platform on the Community site. The Community site is a new business for us. We cannot ensure that our expansion into this business will succeed. It is a business which allows persons to contribute content within certain guidelines and subject to terms and conditions. We cannot always be in a position to assure that our community users are abiding by these terms and conditions, or be in a position to interdict or remove inappropriate or infringing material. Our entry into this business will require us to devote substantial financial, technical, managerial and other resources to this site. It is uncertain whether the business will benefit financially from the Community site. The Community site will also expose us to additional risks, including legal and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to, legal actions for possible intellectual property infringement, and claims for libel. 31 Additionally, our entry into the Community site service will require us to compete with established businesses having substantially greater experience in the Community site service business and which have substantially greater resources than we have. Risks Relating to the Internet Industry Our success is tied to the continued use of the Internet and the adequacy of the Internet infrastructure. Our future revenues and profits, if any, substantially depend upon the continued widespread use of the Internet as an effective medium of business and communication. Factors which could reduce the widespread use of the Internet include: •actual or perceived lack of security of information or privacy protection; •possible disruptions, computer viruses or other damage to the Internet servers or to users' computers; •significant increases in the costs of transportation of goods; and •governmental regulation. Customers may be unwilling to use the Internet to purchase goods. Our long-term future depends heavily upon the general public's willingness to use the Internet as a means to purchase goods. E-commerce remains a relatively new concept and large numbers of customers may not begin or continue to use the Internet to purchase goods. The demand for and acceptance of products sold over the Internet are highly uncertain and most e-commerce businesses have a short track record. If consumers are unwilling to use the Internet to conduct business, our business may not develop profitably. The security risks or perception of risks of e-commerce may discourage customers from purchasing goods from us. In order for the e-commerce market to develop successfully, we and other market participants must be able to transmit confidential information securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of customer transaction data. Any breach could cause customers to lose confidence in the security of our Website and choose not to purchase from our Website. If someone is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Concerns about the security and privacy of transactions over the Internet could inhibit the growth of the Internet and e-commerce. Our security measures may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to our information. Third parties may target our customers directly with fraudulent identity theft schemes designed to appear as legitimate communications from us. Any security breach or fraud perpetrated on our customers could expose us to increased costs and to risks of loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations. Credit card fraud could adversely affect our business. We do not carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud, so the failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce our net revenues and our gross margin. We have implemented technology to help us detect the fraudulent use of credit card information. However, we may in the future suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data even though the associated financial institution approved payment of the orders. Under current credit card practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder's 32 signature. If we are unable to detect or control credit card fraud, our liability for these transactions could harm our business, results of operation or financial condition. If one or more states successfully assert that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our merchandise or the merchandise of third parties that we offer for sale on our Website, our business could be harmed. We do not currently collect sales or other similar taxes for physical shipments of goods into states other than Utah. One or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on us even though we are engaged in online commerce, and have no physical presence in those jurisdictions. The future location of our fulfillment centers and customer service center networks, or any other operation of the company, establishing a physical presence in states where we are not now present, may result in additional sales and other tax obligations. Our business could be adversely affected if one or more states or any foreign country successfully asserts that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our merchandise. Existing or future government regulation could harm our business. We are subject to the same federal, state and local laws as other companies conducting business on the Internet. Today there are relatively few laws specifically directed towards conducting business on the Internet. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, many laws and regulations relating to the Internet are being debated at the state and federal levels. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy could also harm our business. For example, United States and foreign laws regulate our ability to use customer information and to develop, buy and sell mailing lists. The vast majority of these laws was adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised thereby. Those laws that do reference the Internet are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. These current and future laws and regulations could harm our business, results of operation and financial condition. Laws or regulations relating to privacy and data protection may adversely affect the growth of our Internet business or our marketing efforts. We are subject to increasing regulation at the federal, state and international levels relating to privacy and the use of personal user information. For example, we are subject to various telemarketing laws that regulate the manner in which we may solicit future suppliers and customers. Such regulations, along with increased governmental or private enforcement, may increase the cost of growing our business. In addition, many jurisdictions have laws that limit the uses of personal user information gathered online or offline or require companies to establish privacy policies. The Federal Trade Commission has adopted regulations regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from children under 13. Proposed legislation in this country and existing laws in foreign countries require companies to establish procedures to notify users of privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for collection and use of personal information, and/or provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete personal information stored by us. Additional legislation regarding data security and privacy has been proposed in Congress. These data protection regulations may restrict our ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which could be costly or harm our marketing efforts, and could require us to implement new and potentially costly processes, procedures and/or protective measures. 33 Risks Relating to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Securities The price of our securities may be volatile and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Our common stock has been publicly traded only since May 30, 2002. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. These fluctuations could continue. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the market price of our securities may decline. Some of the factors that could affect the market price of our securities are as follows: •changes in securities analysts' recommendations or estimates of our financial performance or publication of research reports by analysts; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •general market conditions; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •intellectual property or litigation developments; •changes in our management team; •economic factors unrelated to our performance; and •our issuance of additional shares of stock or other securities. In addition, the securities markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our securities. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Our quarterly operating results are volatile and may adversely affect the market price of our securities. Our future revenues and operating results are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, and any of which could harm our business. As a result, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. In addition to the other risk factors described in this report, additional factors that have caused and/or could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and in turn affect the market price of our securities include: •increases in the cost of advertising; •our inability to retain existing customers or encourage repeat purchases; •the extent to which our existing and future marketing agreements are successful; •price competition that results in lower profit margins or losses; •the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business operations and infrastructure; •the amount and timing of our purchases of inventory; 34 •our inability to manage distribution operations or provide adequate levels of customer service; •our ability to successfully integrate operations and technologies from acquisitions or other business combinations; •entering into new lines of products; •our ability to attract users to our new auctions and car listing sites; and •our inability to replace the loss of significant customers. Our operating results may fluctuate depending on the season, and such fluctuations may affect the market price of our securities. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in our operating results because of seasonal fluctuations in traditional retail patterns. Sales in the retail and wholesale industry tend to be significantly higher in the fourth calendar quarter of each year than in the preceding three quarters due primarily to increased shopping activity during the holiday season. However, there can be no assurance that our sales in the fourth quarter will exceed those of the preceding quarters or, if the fourth quarter sales do exceed those of the preceding quarters, that we will be able to manage the increased sales effectively. Further, we generally increase our inventories substantially in anticipation of holiday season shopping activity, which has a negative effect on our cash flow. Securities analysts and investors may inaccurately estimate the effects of seasonality on our results of operations in one or more future quarters and, consequently, our operating results may fall below expectations, causing the market price of our securities to decline. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and you may lose the entire amount of your investment in our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you will not receive any funds without selling your shares. We cannot assure that you will receive a positive return on your investment when you sell your shares or that you will not lose the entire amount of your investment. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain anti-takeover provisions which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Several provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of our company even if that change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, only one-third of our board of directors will be elected at each of our annual meetings of stockholders, which will make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to change the management of our company, even after acquiring a majority of the shares of our common stock. These provisions, which cannot be amended without the approval of two-thirds of our stockholders, could diminish the opportunities for a stockholder to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then current market value of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors, without further stockholder approval, may issue preferred stock, with such terms as the board of directors may determine, that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. The issuance of preferred stock could also adversely affect the voting powers of the holders of common stock, including the loss of voting control to others. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could delay or prevent a change in control of our company or could impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving 35 our company or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. The price of our stock may be vulnerable to manipulation. We have filed an unfair business practice lawsuit against Gradient Analytics, Rocker Partners, L.P. and others, alleging that the defendants have conspired to denigrate Overstock's business for personal profit, as well as an amended complaint alleging additional causes of action and articulating in greater detail the allegations against the defendants. We have also filed an unfair business practice lawsuit against Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Goldman Sachs & Co., Bear Stearns Companies, Inc., Bank of America Securities LLC, Bank of New York, Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse (USA) Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., and UBS Financial Services, Inc. In September 2007, we filed an amended complaint adding Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. as an additional defendant and articulating in greater detail the allegations against the defendants. We believe that the defendants in both of these lawsuits have engaged in unlawful actions and have caused substantial harm to Overstock, and that certain of the defendants have made efforts to drive the market price of Overstock's common stock down. To the extent that the defendants or other persons engage in any such actions or take any other actions to interfere with or destroy or harm Overstock's existing and/or prospective business relationships with its suppliers, bankers, customers, lenders, investors, prospective investors or others, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation may suffer, and the price of our common stock may be more volatile than it might otherwise be and/or may trade at prices below those that might prevail in the absence of any such efforts. Our stock has consistently been on the Regulation SHO threshold list. Regulation SHO requires the stock exchanges to publish daily a list of companies whose stock has failures-to-deliver above a certain threshold. It also requires mandatory close-outs for open fail-to-deliver positions in threshold securities persisting for over 13 days, with the aim that no security would appear on the threshold for any extended period. Despite that aim, we have consistently appeared on the Regulation SHO threshold list and have been on the list for more trading days than any other company. Any investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described above, and all other information in this Form 10-K and in any reports we file with the SEC after we file this Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase or hold our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. The occurrence of any of the risks described in this Form 10-K could harm our business. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and investors may lose part or all of their investment. Available Information Our Internet website address is http://www.overstock.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not a part of or incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 36 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 