Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the following 16 Table of Contents factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Relating to the Merger There are risks and uncertainties associated with our proposed acquisition by Oracle. The announcement and pendency of the Merger may adversely affect our business due to customers’ and employees’ uncertainty and other disruptions as well as intensified competition from our competitors as they attempt to take advantage of these uncertainties. In addition, we have incurred legal and other expenses in connection with the pending Merger. All of these factors may have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we have agreed to operate our business in the ordinary course consistent with past practice, as well as to refrain from taking certain actions in the conduct of our business without Oracle’s prior written consent until the consummation of the Merger. Actions that may require Oracle’s consent include, but are not limited to, new indebtedness, capital expenditures, loans and investments, acquisitions, and issuances of securities. These restrictions could adversely affect our business and have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. There is no assurance that the Merger with Oracle will occur. Completion of the Merger is subject to various customary closing conditions, including, but not limited to, (i) approval of the Merger Agreement by our shareholders, (ii) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and any applicable foreign competition laws, as amended, (iii) the absence of any order, injunction, law or regulation prohibiting the consummation of the Merger, (iv) the accuracy of the representations and warranties of each party, (v) performance, in all material respects, all obligations and compliance with, in all material respects, agreements and covenants to be performed or complied with by each party, (vi) the absence of any event, change or set of circumstances that would have a material adverse effect on our business and (vii) the absence of any suit, claim, action or proceeding by a governmental authority seeking to challenge or delay the Merger, restrain Oracle’s ownership of our business, assets or common stock or requiring divestiture of any equity interests by Oracle. Additional risks and uncertainties which could affect the parties’ ability to complete the Merger include, without limitation, the possibility of litigation (including related to the transaction itself). If the Merger is not completed, the share price of our common stock will change to the extent that the current market price of the Company’s common stock reflects an assumption that the Merger will be completed. In addition, under circumstances defined in the Merger Agreement, we might be required to pay a termination fee of $66.0 million and Oracle’s documented, out-of-pocket fees and expenses up to a total of $5.0 million, which amount may be credited against the $66.0 million termination fee. Finally, any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the Merger will likely continue in the event that the Merger is not completed. Pending shareholder litigation could prevent or delay the closing of the Merger or otherwise negatively impact our business and operations. Subsequent to the February 4, 2013 announcement of the Merger, Acme Packet has been named party to eight purported class action lawsuits filed by alleged stockholders, seven of which were filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery and one of which was filed in Middlesex County Superior Court in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Each of these lawsuits names as defendants Acme Packet, the members of our board of directors, Oracle, Parent and Merger Subsidiary. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” for more detailed information concerning the lawsuits. The lawsuits allege generally that the defendants either breached or aided and abetted the breach of fiduciary duties to Acme Packet’s stockholders by seeking to sell the company for an allegedly inadequate price and on unfair terms. The complaints seek equitable relief, including, among other things, to enjoin consummation of the 17 Table of Contents proposed merger, rescission of the merger agreement, award of all costs of the action, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs, and rescissory and other damages. No assurances can be given that this litigation will not result in such an injunction being issued, which could prevent or delay the closing of the Merger. It is possible that additional lawsuits may be filed against us asserting similar or different claims. There can be no assurance that we or any of the other defendants will be successful in the outcome of the pending or any potential future lawsuits. Risks Relating to Our Business The market for session delivery network solutions is competitive and continually evolving, and if we are not able to compete effectively, we may not be able to continue to expand our business as expected and our business may suffer. Although relatively new, the market for session delivery network solutions is competitive and continually evolving. We expect competition to persist and intensify in the future as the session delivery network solutions market grows and new and existing competitors devote considerable resources to introducing and enhancing products. Our competitors vary by market segment, service provider vs. enterprise, and by session delivery network product category. In the service provider market overall, our primary competitors include GENBAND Inc., Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., and Metaswitch Networks Ltd. In the enterprise market, our primary competitor is Cisco Systems, Inc. Networking and telecommunications equipment suppliers without competitive solutions today may introduce solutions in the future, either through internal development or acquisition. These additional competitors include a number of our distribution partners. Any new entrant would be likely to devote significant sales and marketing resources to establish its position in the session delivery network solutions market and may be willing to price its products at a discount, or bundle its products with other equipment or services, in an attempt to rapidly gain market share. New product introductions or new market entrants could cause service providers to delay purchase decisions or reopen bidding processes. If new product enhancements and introductions are superior to ours, and we are unable to make comparable enhancements to our products, our competitive advantage would be compromised which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may not be able to compete effectively against current and potential competitors, especially those with significantly greater resources and market leverage. Our competitors may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we do, including relationships with our potential customers. In addition, these companies may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. These competitors may be in a position to respond more quickly than we do to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements or may foresee the course of market developments more accurately than we do. As a result, we may experience price reductions for our products, decreases in order placement and increased expenses which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Because we derive a significant portion of our revenue from interactive communications service providers, our operating results will suffer if the interactive communications industry experiences an economic downturn. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from the communications industry. Our future success depends upon the continued demand for IP communications equipment by service providers, enterprises, governments and contact centers. The communications industry is cyclical and reactive to general economic conditions. Economic conditions worldwide have, from time to time, contributed to slowdowns in the communications industries and networking industries at large. In the past, worldwide economic downturns, pricing pressures and deregulation have led to consolidations and reorganizations. These downturns, pricing pressures and restructurings caused delays and reductions in capital and operating expenditures by our customers. 18 Table of Contents These delays and reductions, in turn, could reduce demand for communications products like ours. A reoccurrence of these industry patterns, as well as general domestic and international economic conditions and other factors that reduce spending by companies in the communications industry, may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Sales to the service provider market are especially volatile, and fluctuations in sales orders from this industry may harm our operating results and financial condition. Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, in addition to longer sales cycles. Sales activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network infrastructures; the availability of funding, and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and business conditions in the country of operations. Weakness in orders from this industry, including as a result of any slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers (which may be more prevalent during a global economic downturn or periods of economic uncertainty), could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and stock price. Orders from this industry could decline for many reasons other than the competitiveness of our products and services within their respective markets. Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors. Some of our current or prospective customers have, and may in the future, cancel or delay spending on the development or roll-out of capital and technology projects with us due to the continuing economic uncertainty and, consequently, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, the current negative worldwide economic conditions and market instability make it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand, which could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market share. All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue in any period, and the loss of, or a significant shortfall in orders from, key customers could significantly reduce our revenue. We derive a substantial portion of our total revenue in any period from a limited number of customers as a result of the nature of our target market and the current stage of our development. During any given period, a small number of customers may each account for 10% or more of our revenue. For example one such customer accounted for 12% of our total revenue in 2012 and one such customer accounted for 14% of our total revenue in 2011. Additionally, we do not enter into long-term purchase contracts with our customers, and we have no contractual arrangements to ensure future sales of our products to our existing customers. Our inability to generate anticipated revenue from our key existing or targeted customers, or a significant shortfall in sales to them could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to effect sales to existing and other large customers. We rely on many distribution partners to assist in selling our products, and if we do not develop and manage these relationships effectively, our ability to generate revenue and control expenses may be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2012, we had more than 330 distribution partners. Our success is highly dependent upon our ability to continue to establish and maintain successful relationships with these distribution partners from whom, collectively, we derive a significant portion of our revenue, and who may comprise a concentrated amount of our accounts receivable at any point in time. Revenue derived through distribution partners accounted for 54% and 60% of our total revenue in 2012 and 2011, respectively, while one distribution partner represented 14% of our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2012, and another distribution partner represented 28% of our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2011. Given the current global economic conditions, there is a risk that one or more of our distribution partners could cease operations. Although we have entered into contracts with each of our distribution partners, our contractual arrangements are not exclusive and do not obligate our 19 Table of Contents distribution partners to order, purchase or distribute any fixed or minimum quantities of our products. Accordingly, our distribution partners, at their sole discretion, may choose to purchase solutions from our competitors rather than from us. Under our contracts with our distribution partners, products are generally ordered from us by the submission of purchase orders that describe, among other things, the type and quantities of our products desired, delivery date, and terms and conditions applicable to the ordered products. Accordingly, our ability to sell our products and generate significant revenue through our distribution partners is highly dependent on the continued desire and willingness of our distribution partners to purchase and distribute our products and on the continued cooperation between us and our distribution partners. Some of our distribution partners may develop competitive products in the future or may already have other product offerings that they may choose to offer and support in lieu of our products. Divergence in strategy, change in focus, competitive product offerings, potential contract defaults, and changes in ownership or management of a distribution partner may interfere with our ability to market, license, implement or support our products with that party, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Some of our competitors may have stronger relationships with our distribution partners than we do, and we have limited control, if any, as to whether those partners implement our products rather than our competitors’ products or whether they devote resources to market and support our competitors’ products rather than our offerings. Moreover, if we are unable to leverage our sales, support, and services resources through our distribution partner relationships, our role in our industry will change and we will need to hire and train additional qualified sales, support, and services personnel to provide a more comprehensive systems integration, training, and services offering. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire additional qualified sales, support, and services personnel in these circumstances and our failure to do so may restrict our ability to generate revenue. Even if we are successful in hiring additional qualified sales, support, and services personnel, we will incur additional costs and our operating results, including our gross margin, may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, increased competition from large communications and network equipment vendors, including, in many instances, our distribution partners, would result in a changing mix of our business to more direct relationships with end customers. This change would require substantial additional and unplanned investment to broaden our product and services portfolio to provide a more comprehensive systems integration, service, support and complete communications solutions offering to effectively compete in the changing marketplace. This change in mix and additional investment may have a significant impact on our ability to grow revenue predictably, which may have a significant adverse impact on our business and future potential shareholder value. The long and variable sales and deployment cycles for our products may cause our operating results to vary materially, which could result in a significant unexpected revenue shortfall in any given quarter. Our products have lengthy sales cycles, which typically extend from six to twelve months, and may take up to two years. A customer’s decision to purchase our products often involves a significant commitment of its resources and a product evaluation and qualification process that can vary significantly in length. The length of our sales cycles also varies depending on the type of customer to which we are selling, the product being sold and the type of network in which our product will be utilized. We may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort during this time, regardless of whether the customer decides to make a purchase. Even after making the decision to purchase our products, our customers may deploy our products slowly. Timing of deployment can vary widely among customers. The length of a customer’s deployment period may directly affect the timing of any subsequent purchase of additional products by that customer. As a result of the lengthy and uncertain sales and deployment cycles for our products, it is difficult for us to predict the timing in which our customers may purchase additional products or features from us, and our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, and stock price. 20 Table of Contents Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that could result in decreased revenues and increased cost of sales. Many of our customers are large interactive communications service providers that have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. These customers may require us to develop additional features and require penalties for performance obligations, such as delivery, outages, or response time. As we seek to sell more products to large service providers, we may be required to agree to additional performance based terms and conditions, which may affect the timing of revenue recognition and may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our revenue growth may be constrained by our product concentration and lack of revenue diversification. We have derived the majority of our revenue to date from sales of our session border controllers, and we expect that our session border controllers will account for substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. As a result, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by: • any decline in demand for our existing products; • the failure of our existing products to achieve continued market acceptance; • the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our existing products; • technological innovations or new standards that our existing products do not address; and • our inability to release enhanced versions of our existing products on a timely basis. The worldwide economic downturn, including developments in the financial markets in the United States and elsewhere in the world may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. As widely reported, financial markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others and the European sovereign debt crisis. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions, such as the severe restrictions on credit and declines in real estate values. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. These economic developments affect our business in a number of ways. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations, and could result in a decrease in demand for our products and services. Our customers’ ability to pay for solutions purchased from us may also be impaired, which may lead to an increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. Our global business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending. Our success depends on our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources through rapidly fluctuating economic market conditions. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. Should these economic conditions result in our not meeting our revenue growth objectives, it may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 21 Table of Contents U.S. and global political, credit and financial market conditions may negatively impact or impair the value of our current portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and investments, including U.S. Treasury securities and U.S.-backed investment vehicles. Our cash, cash equivalents and investments are held in a variety of interest bearing instruments, including U.S. treasury securities. As a result of the uncertain domestic and global political, credit and financial market conditions, investments in these types of financial instruments pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. Given that future deterioration in the U.S. and global credit and financial markets is a possibility, no assurance can be made that losses or significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash, cash equivalents, or investments will not occur. For example, in August 2011 Standard & Poor’s downgraded the U.S.’s credit rating to account for the risk that U.S. lawmakers would fail to raise the debt ceiling and/or reduce its overall deficit. Such a downgrade could continue to impact the stability of future U.S. treasury auctions and affect the trading market for U.S. government securities. Uncertainty surrounding U.S. congressional action or inaction could impact the trading market for U.S. government securities or impair the U.S. government’s ability to satisfy its obligations under such treasury securities. These factors could impact the liquidity or valuation of our current portfolio of cash, cash equivalents, and investments, a substantial portion of which were invested in U.S. treasury securities as of December 31, 2012. If any such losses or significant deteriorations occur, it may negatively impact or impair our current portfolio of cash, cash equivalents, and investments, which may affect our ability to fund future obligations. Further, unless and until the current U.S. and global political, credit and financial market crisis has been sufficiently resolved, it may be difficult for us to liquidate our investments prior to their maturity without incurring a loss, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. If we do not timely deliver new and enhanced products that respond to customer requirements and technological changes, interactive communications service providers may not buy our products and our revenue may decline. To achieve market acceptance for our products, we must effectively anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to customer requirements, and offer products that meet changing customer demands. Prospective customers may require product features and capabilities that our current products do not have. For example, our most recent product introduction, the Net-Net 6300 series, may not adequately respond to new customer demands and, therefore, demand for our products may decrease or may fail to increase to the extent contemplated by our business plan. If we fail to develop products that satisfy customer requirements, our ability to create or increase demand for our products will be adversely affected, and we may lose current and prospective customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The market for session delivery network solutions is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry requirements. We may be unable to respond quickly or effectively to these developments. We may experience difficulties with software development, hardware design, manufacturing, or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or implementation of new products and enhancements. The introduction of new products by competitors, the emergence of new industry standards, or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing product offerings could render our existing or future products obsolete. If our products become technologically obsolete, customers may purchase solutions from our competitors and we may be unable to sell our products in the marketplace and generate revenue, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our dependence on outside contractors for critical manufacturing services could result in product delivery delays and damage our customer relations. We outsource the manufacturing of our Net-Net products. We subcontract all of the manufacturing of our Net-Net 3820 and 4500 series of products to Plexus Corporation and Benchmark Electronics, Inc. We subcontract all of the manufacturing of our Net-Net 9200 series of products to Plexus Corporation and TTM 22 Table of Contents Technologies, Inc. We subcontract all of the manufacturing of our Net-Net 6300 and Net-Net 14000 series of products to Benchmark Electronics, Inc. We submit purchase orders to these manufacturers that describe, among other things, the type and quantities of our products or components to be manufactured by the applicable manufacturer and the delivery date and other terms applicable to the products or components. Our manufacturers do not have any written contractual obligation to accept any purchase order that we submit for the manufacture of any of our products or components. If one of our manufacturers accepts in writing a purchase order submitted by us, the manufacturer is legally obligated to manufacture the product or component covered by such purchase order and we are obligated to purchase and take delivery of such product or component. Our reliance on outside manufacturers involves a number of potential risks, including the absence of adequate capacity, the unavailability of, or interruptions in access to, necessary manufacturing processes, and reduced control over delivery schedules. As a result of the recent global financial market conditions, it is possible that any of our outside contractors could experience interruptions in production, cease operations or alter our current arrangements. If this occurs, it could adversely affect our business. In addition, we cannot be certain or provide any assurance that our manufacturers will accept any or all of our purchase orders and agree to manufacture and supply any or all of our manufacturing requirements for our products or any components. If our manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products and components in required volumes, we will have to identify one or more acceptable alternative manufacturers. The use of new manufacturers may cause significant interruptions in supply if the new manufacturers have difficulty manufacturing products to our specifications and may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ existing networks, the demand for our products will decrease. Our products must interoperate with our customers’ existing networks, each of which may have different specifications. An unanticipated lack of interoperability may result in significant support and repair costs and harm our relations with customers. If our products do not interoperate with those of our customers’ networks, installations could be delayed or orders for our products could decrease, which would result in loss of customers which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Certain component parts used in the manufacture of our products are sourced from single or limited sources. If our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain these components on a timely basis, we will not be able to meet our customers’ product delivery requirements, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. Certain key components used in the manufacture of our products are sourced from single or, in some cases, limited sources. For example, the third parties that we hire to manufacture our products, or contract manufacturers, purchase through electronics distributors various types of network processors, traffic managers, microprocessors, and network search engines. Specifically, Altera Corporation, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, Broadcom Corporation, Cavium, Inc., Exar Corporation, EZ Chip Semiconductor, Ltd., Intel Corporation, Marvell Semiconductor, Inc., Micron Technology, Inc., Mindspeed Technologies, Inc., Octasic, Inc., PLX Technology, Inc., and Xilinx, Inc., are presently the sole sources for particular components. We do not have a written agreement with any of these component manufacturers to guarantee the supply of key components used in our products, and we do not require any of our contract manufacturers to have a written agreement with any of these component manufacturers. Our contractual arrangements with our electronics distributors do not provide for these electronics distributors to enter into any contract with any component manufacturer to guarantee the supply of these key components. We have entered into arrangements with our contract manufactures and electronic distributors to source key components. Despite these arrangements, we cannot be certain or provide any assurance that the component manufacturers will accept any or all of the purchase orders, issued by the electronics distributors and agree to supply any or all of the quantities requested. Accordingly, we cannot be certain or provide any assurance that these electronics distributors will have at all times at least three 23 Table of Contents months’ supply of these key components or any quantities of the key components in inventory or that our contract manufacturers will be able to source their requirements of the key components from other sources in the event that the electronics distributors cannot meet our contract manufacturers’ requirements. Additionally, if our contract manufacturers underestimate our component requirements, or if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, they may not have an adequate supply, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments. If any of our sole or limited source suppliers experience capacity constraints, work stoppages or other reductions or disruptions in output, they may not be able to meet, or may choose not to meet, our delivery schedules. In light of the recent downturn in the global economic conditions, there is also the risk that these electronics distributers could experience interruptions in production, cease operations, or alter our current arrangements. Also, our suppliers may: • enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors; • be acquired by our competitors; • stop selling their products or components to us at commercially reasonable prices; • refuse to sell their products or components to us at any price; or • be unable to obtain or have difficulty obtaining components for their products from their suppliers. If our supply of any key components is disrupted, we may be unable to deliver our products to our customers on a timely basis, which could result in lost or delayed revenue, harm to our reputation, increased manufacturing costs, and exposure to claims by our customers. Even if alternate suppliers are available, we may have difficulty identifying them in a timely manner, we may incur significant additional expense in changing suppliers, and we may experience difficulties or delays in the manufacturing of our products. For example, we have customized some of our hardware products to accommodate the design of some key components, and the loss of the sole supplier of a key component could require that we redesign related components to accommodate replacement components. Any failure to meet our customers’ delivery requirements could harm our reputation and may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. If the market for our products does not continue to develop as we anticipate, our revenue may decline or fail to grow, which would adversely affect our operating results. Despite introducing several new product categories over the last several years, we derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant amount of our revenue from the sale of session delivery network solutions . The market for session delivery network solutions is relatively new and still evolving, and it is uncertain whether these products will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of interactive communications service providers to continue to implement session delivery network solutions. Some service providers or enterprises may be reluctant or unwilling to implement session delivery network solutions for a number of reasons, including failure to perceive the need for improved quality and security of interactive communications across Internet Protocol, or IP, borders and lack of knowledge about the potential benefits that session delivery network solutions may provide. Even if service providers or enterprises recognize the need for improved quality and security of interactive communications across IP borders, they may not select session delivery network solutions such as ours because they choose to wait for the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our session delivery network solutions. If service providers or enterprises do not perceive the benefits of session delivery network solutions, the session delivery network solutions market may not continue to develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would adversely affect our revenue. Because the market for session delivery network solutions is developing and the manner of its development is difficult to predict, we may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 24 Table of Contents If the migration to IP network architecture for real-time interactive communications does not continue, the session delivery network solutions market may not expand as predicted, and our ability to obtain new customers may decrease. We derive our revenue by providing session delivery network solutions to interactive communications service providers seeking to deliver premium interactive communications over IP networks. Our success depends on the continued migration of service providers’ networks to a single IP network architecture. The migration of voice traffic from PSTN to IP networks is in its early stages, and the continued migration to IP networks depends on a number of factors outside of our control. Among other things, existing networks include switches and other equipment that may have estimated useful lives of twenty years or more and therefore may continue to operate reliably for a lengthy period of time. Other factors that may delay the migration to IP networks include service providers’ concerns regarding initial capital outlay requirements, available capacity on legacy networks, competitive and regulatory issues, and the implementation of an enhanced services business model. As a result, service providers may defer investing in products such as ours that are designed to migrate interactive communications to IP networks. If the migration to IP networks does not occur for these or other reasons, or if it occurs more slowly than we expect, the session delivery network solutions market may not expand as predicted, if at all, and we will not be able to gain new customers. In addition, even if there is a successful migration to an IP network for interactive communications, new unforeseen technologies may render the session delivery network solutions unnecessary. As a result, our revenues would decrease which would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel may impair our ability to expand our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical, marketing and production personnel, including our founders, Andrew D. Ory, who is also our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Patrick J. MeLampy, who is also our Chief Technology Officer. Neither of these officers is a party to an employment agreement with us, and either of them therefore may terminate employment with us at any time with no advance notice. The replacement of either of these two officers likely would involve significant time and costs, and the loss of either of these officers may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing, financial services, manufacturing and e-commerce companies. For example, our competitors may be able to attract and retain a more qualified team by offering more competitive compensation packages. If we are unable to attract new engineers and retain our current engineers, we may not be able to develop and service our products at the same levels as our competitors and we may, therefore, lose potential customers and sales penetration in certain markets. Our failure to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan and as a result, our ability to compete effectively in the session delivery network solutions market would decrease, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Over the long-term we intend to increase our investment in engineering, sales, marketing, service, manufacturing and administration activities, and these investments may achieve delayed, or lower than expected benefits, which could harm our operating results. Over the long-term, we intend to continue to add personnel and other resources to our engineering, sales, marketing, service, manufacturing, and administrative functions as we focus on developing emerging technologies, the next wave of advanced technologies, capitalizing on our emerging market opportunities, enhancing our evolving support model, and increasing our market share gains. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits and the return on these 25 Table of Contents investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected. We have made and may undertake additional acquisitions to further expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. As part of our growth strategy, we have acquired three companies as of December 31, 2012 and may continue to do so in the future. In April, 2012, we acquired IPTEGO GmbH, an IP communications network management software company. In January 2011, we acquired Newfound Communications, Inc., which provides call recording, interactive voice response, and dialing solutions for the telecommunications industry. In April 2009, we acquired Covergence Inc. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions, and potential future transactions, will depend in part upon the integration of the acquired business, the performance of the acquired products, capacities of the technologies acquired as well as the personnel hired in connection with the past and potential future acquisitions. Accordingly, our results of operations could be adversely affected from transaction related charges, amortization of intangible assets and charges for impairment of long-term assets and there can be no assurance that these past and potential future transactions will be successful. While we do not have any present plans to acquire additional businesses, technologies or services, we may enter into such arrangements in the future in order to expand our capabilities, enter new markets, or increase our market share. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services is likely to be expensive and time consuming. To finance any acquisition, it may require us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stockholders. If we do complete any acquisitions, we may be unable to operate the acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our strategy successfully. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired entities, technologies or services effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer. The time and expense associated with finding suitable and compatible businesses, technologies, or services could also disrupt our ongoing business and divert our management’s attention. Future acquisitions by us could also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumptions of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards could adversely affect our operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and various other bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, we recognize our revenue for hardware and software products, as well as our service offerings in accordance with the Accounting Standards Codifications for multiple element arrangements and software revenue recognition. The FASB and the AICPA and its Software Revenue Recognition Task Force continue to issue interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant accounting standards to a wide range of sales contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in licensing arrangements such as ours. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards, or changes in our business practices could result in future changes in our revenue recognition accounting policies that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be required to delay revenue recognition into future periods, which could adversely affect our operating results. In the future we may have to defer recognition for license fees due to several factors, including whether a transaction involves: • software arrangements that include undelivered elements for which we do not have vendor specific objective evidence of fair value; 26 Table of Contents • requirements that we deliver services for significant enhancements and modifications to customize our software for a particular customer; or • material acceptance criteria. Because of these factors and other specific requirements under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. for multiple element arrangements and software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our arrangements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver our solutions or perform our services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend our sales cycle, and we sometimes accept terms and conditions that do not permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous interpretations will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. If functionality similar to that offered by our session delivery network solutions is added to existing network infrastructure elements, organizations may decide against adding our session delivery network solutions to their network which would cause the market for standalone session delivery network solutions to decrease resulting in fewer customers for and decreased sales of, standalone session delivery network solutions. Other providers of network infrastructure elements are offering or proposing to offer functionality aimed at addressing the problems addressed by our products. The inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our products in infrastructure elements that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may cause the market not to grow as predicted, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell certain of our products. Furthermore, even if the functionality offered by other network infrastructure elements is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding additional equipment from an additional vendor, which could also have a material adverse effect on the market for standalone session delivery network solutions systems. Many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of network infrastructure elements, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from new vendors. In addition, an organization’s existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only a single line of products and may have fewer financial resources than some of our competitors. If organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, the revenue derived from our products may prove smaller than predicted which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our international operations expose us to additional business risks and failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our international revenue. In 2012, 44% of our revenue was attributable to our customers located outside of U.S. and Canada. We plan to expand our international operations in the future. The success of our business may depend, in part, on our ability to expand into international markets. Any expansion into international markets will require significant resources and management attention and will subject us to new regulatory, economic and political risks. We have employees and full-time independent contractors in Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Columbia, Croatia, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Taiwan, Thailand, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. Given our limited experience in international markets, we cannot be sure that any further international expansion will be successful. In addition, we will face new risks in doing business internationally. These risks could reduce demand for our products, lower the prices at which we can sell our products, or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Among the risks we believe are most likely to affect us are: • our ability to comply with differing technical standards and certification requirements outside the U.S.; 27 Table of Contents • costs of staffing and managing international operations; • substantially longer payment terms and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • changes in regulatory requirements; • compliance with local employment and labor regulations; • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Anti-Bribery Act, and other foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • new and different sources of competition; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability and terrorism. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Through our international activities, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and all other anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the UK Anti-Bribery Act, of all the countries in which we do business, directly or indirectly, including compliance with the anti-bribery prohibitions and the accounting and recordkeeping requirements of such laws. Indeed, we earn a significant portion of our total revenues from international sales generated through our international direct and indirect operations. The applicable anti-corruption laws generally prohibit covered companies and their intermediaries from making corrupt payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and requires companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the company. The FCPA, in particular, applies to companies, individual directors, officers, employees, and agents. Under the FCPA, U.S. companies may be held liable for actions taken by strategic or local partners or representatives. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies which we acquire. If we, or our intermediaries, fail to comply with the requirements of the FCPA, governmental authorities in the U.S. could seek to impose civil and/or criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and reputation. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of, or lapses in, the research and development tax credit laws; by tax effects of stock-based compensation; by costs related to intercompany restructurings; or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Adverse outcomes from these examinations may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 28 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our business and operating results will be harmed and our reputation may be damaged. We continued to expand our operations in 2010, 2011 and 2012. During the period from December 31, 2010 through December 31, 2012, we increased the number of our employees and full-time independent contractors by 54%, from 570 to 880. We have also increased the number of our employees and full-time independent contractors located outside the U.S. in multiple countries and as a result we are required to comply with varying local laws for each of these new locations. In addition, our total operating expenses increased by 30% in 2010, 45% in 2011 and 26% in 2012. We anticipate that further expansion of our infrastructure and headcount will be required to achieve planned expansion of our product offerings, projected increases in our customer base, and anticipated growth in the number of product deployments. Our rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and growth across multiple countries, will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies, and reporting systems and processes. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we are unable to manage future expansion, our ability to provide high quality products and services could be harmed, which would damage our reputation and brand and may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to compete and the success of our business could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately. Our success depends to a degree upon the protection of our software, hardware designs, and other proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and confidentiality provisions in agreements with employees, distribution partners, consultants, and customers to protect our intellectual property rights. Other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we may not be able to enforce our rights adequately against these parties. In addition, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in international countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. For example, if a competitor were to gain use of certain of our proprietary technology, it might be able to manufacture similarly designed and equipped session delivery network solutions s at a reduced cost, which would result in a decrease in demand for our products. Furthermore, we have adopted a strategy of seeking targeted patent protection both in the U.S. and in international countries with respect to the technologies used in or relating to our products. Others may independently develop and obtain patents for technologies that are similar to or superior to our technologies. If that happens, we may need to license these technologies and we may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, thereby causing harm to our business. In addition, if we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could become burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail and may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Claims by other parties that we infringe upon their proprietary technology could force us to redesign our products or to incur significant costs. We may become involved in litigation as a result of allegations that we infringe upon intellectual property rights of others. Any party asserting that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights would force us to defend ourselves, and possibly our customers, distribution partners or contract manufacturers, against the alleged infringement. These claims and any resulting lawsuits, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for 29 Table of Contents damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; • redesign those products that use any allegedly infringing technology; • pay any damages for past shipments; or • refund deposits and other amounts. Any lawsuits regarding intellectual property rights, regardless of their success, could be time consuming, expensive to resolve, would divert our management’s time and attention and may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Compliance with regulations and standards applicable to our products may be time consuming, difficult, and costly, and if we fail to comply, our product sales will decrease. In order to achieve and maintain market acceptance, our products must continue to meet a significant number of regulations and standards. In the U.S., our products must comply with various regulations defined by the Federal Communications Commission, Underwriters Laboratories and others. As our international operations grow, we must also comply with international regulations. As these regulations and standards evolve, and if new regulations or standards are implemented, we will be required to modify our products or develop and support new versions of our products, and this will increase our costs. The failure of our products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving industry regulations and standards could prevent or delay introduction of our products, which could harm our business. User uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for communications products, including our products. Moreover, distribution partners or customers may require us, or we may otherwise deem it necessary or advisable, to alter our products to address actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment. Our inability to alter our products to address these requirements and any regulatory changes may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Regulations affecting IP networks could reduce demand for our products. Laws and regulations governing the Internet and electronic commerce are emerging but remain largely unsettled, even in the areas where there has been some legislative action. Regulations may focus on, among other things, assessing access or settlement charges, or imposing tariffs or regulations based on the characteristics and quality of products, either of which could restrict our business or increase our cost of doing business. Government regulatory policies are likely to continue to have a major impact on the pricing of existing and new network services and, therefore, are expected to affect demand for those services and the communications products, including our products, supporting those services. Any changes to existing laws or the adoption of new regulations by federal or state regulatory authorities or any legal challenges to existing laws or regulations affecting IP networks could materially adversely affect the market for our products. In addition, the convergence of the PSTN and IP networks could become subject to governmental regulation, including the imposition of access fees or other tariffs, that adversely affects the market for services and equipment, including the services and equipment we sell, for interactive communications across IP networks. User uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for communications products, including our products. Moreover, distribution partners or customers may require us, or we may otherwise deem it necessary or advisable, to alter our products to address actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment. Our inability to alter our products or address any regulatory changes may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 30 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that may increase our costs of operations or limit our activities. We are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety regulations relating to matters such as reductions in the use of harmful substances, comprehensive risk management in manufacturing activities and final products, the use of lead-free soldering, and the recycling of products and packaging materials. The European Parliament and the Counsel of the European Union have published directives on waste electrical and electronic equipment and on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. These directives generally require electronics producers to bear the cost of collection, treatment, recovery, and safe disposal of past and future products from end-users and to ensure that new electrical and electronic equipment does not contain specified hazardous substances. While the cost of these directives to us cannot be determined before regulations are adopted in individual member states of the European Union, it may be substantial and may divert resources, which could detract from our ability to develop new products. We may not be able to comply in all cases with applicable environmental and other regulations, and if we do not, we may incur remediation costs or we may not be able to offer our products for sale in certain countries, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Because our products are sophisticated and designed to be deployed in complex environments, they may have errors or defects that we find only after deployment, which could result in a loss of customers and adversely affect our reputation, future sales, and operating results. Our products may contain undetected errors that result in product failures. Our products can be fully tested only when deployed in large networks with high volumes of traffic. Our customers may discover errors or defects in the software or hardware, or the products may not operate as expected. If we are unable to fix errors or other performance problems identified after deployment of our products, we could experience: • a loss of, or delay in, revenue recognition; • a loss of customers and market share; • a failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products; • increased service, support, and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and • costly and time consuming legal actions by our customers and injury to our reputation. Any of these results may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Product liability claims related to our customers’ networks could result in substantial costs. Our products are critical to the business operations of our customers. If one of our products fail, a customer may assert a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Our product liability insurance may not cover claims brought against us. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any product liability claims, whether or not successful, could seriously damage our reputation and our business. In addition, if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in the network of one of our customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed and may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our network may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, 31 Table of Contents the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruption to the economy and create further uncertainties in the economy. Energy shortages, such as gas or electricity shortages, could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or delays in the manufacture or shipment of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Additional costs and risks associated with complying with increasing regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC promulgated final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer’s efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. These new requirements require due diligence efforts for the 2013 calendar year, with initial disclosure requirements effective in May 2014. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold. The first report is due on May 31, 2014 for the 2013 calendar year. Recently, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers and the Business Roundtable filed a petition challenging the adoption of the rules by the SEC. It is presently unclear if this challenge will delay the effectiveness of the rule. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The unpredictability of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. If our quarterly revenue, earnings or other operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decrease substantially. Our operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Generally, purchases of communications equipment by service providers, enterprises, governments and contact centers have been unpredictable and clustered, rather than predictable and steady, as they frequently build out and update their communications networks in stages. The following factors, among others, can contribute to the unpredictability of our quarterly operating results: • fluctuations in demand for our products, and the timing and size of customer orders; • the length and variability of the sales and deployment cycles for our products, and the corresponding timing of recognizing revenue; • general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the communications, networking and related industries; • new product introductions and enhancements by our competitors or us; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • changes in our third-party manufacturing costs or in the prices of components and materials used in our products; 32 Table of Contents • our ability to develop, introduce and deploy new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; • our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of limited source components or materials; • our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; and • the proposed merger and its timing. As with other communications equipment suppliers, we may recognize a substantial portion of our revenue in a given quarter from sales booked and shipped in the last month of that quarter. As a result, a delay in customer orders is likely to result in a delay in shipments and recognition of revenue beyond the end of a given quarter. Because a relatively small number of customers may account for a substantial portion of our revenue in any quarter, any such delay in an order from a customer may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our operating expenses are largely based on our anticipated revenue growth and related organizational growth. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation, are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, any shortfall in revenue in relation to our expectations, whether for the reasons set forth above, the reasons identified below, or any other reason, could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter and could result in lower quarterly earnings. As we have experienced in the past, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock could decrease substantially. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading market for our common stock is subject to many factors, and the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations could cause investors to lose part or all of the value of any investment in shares of our common stock. The following factors could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly: • worldwide economic conditions; • loss or bankruptcy of any of our major customers, distribution partners, or suppliers; • departure of key personnel; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • variations in the quarterly operating results of other publicly traded corporations deemed by investors to be in our peer group; • announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, new products or product enhancements, acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • changes in governmental regulations and standards affecting our business and our products, including implementation of additional regulations relating to IP network communications; • decreases in financial estimates or recommendations by equity research analysts; • sales of common stock or other securities by us in the future; • the results of elections in the U.S. or internationally; • decreases in market valuations of communications equipment companies; and • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes. 33 Table of Contents In the past, securities class action litigation often has been initiated against public companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. If class action litigation is initiated against us, we may incur substantial costs and our management’s attention may be diverted from our operations. All of these factors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our corporate documents and Delaware law will make a takeover of our company more difficult, which may limit the market price of our common stock. Our restated charter and bylaws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our Company. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our Company or a change in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Some provisions in our restated charter and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us, which may limit the market price of our common stock and may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. These include: • a classified board of directors; • the ability of the board of directors to issue undesignated shares without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the share ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by the board; • limitations on the removal of directors; and • advance notice requirements for election to the board and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us, and if it is available, may dilute the ownership of our common stock. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: • fund ongoing operations; • take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion of our business or the acquisition of complementary products, technologies, or businesses; • develop new products; or • respond to competitive pressures. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity may dilute the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders. Capital raised through debt financing would require us to make periodic interest payments and may impose potentially restrictive covenants on the conduct of our business. Furthermore, additional financings may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. A failure to obtain additional funding could prevent us from making expenditures that may be required to grow or maintain our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 34 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We did not receive any written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the date 180 days before December 31, 2012 regarding our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that have not been resolved. 