Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial performance or achievements to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “intend,” “potential,” “project” or other similar words. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We design, develop and market analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products that enable and enhance the features and capabilities of mobile and other consumer products. Traditionally, our core products have been mixed-signal color display drivers with integrated controllers, which are critical components of displays used in mobile consumer electronic devices. Beginning in 2007, we intend to expand our product offerings to include LED driver, touch technology and consumer audio analog products. While we have primarily focused on the mobile handset market to date, we believe our new analog products will enable our strategy of diversification into other markets. The initial focus of this diversification strategy will be on portable consumer electronic device markets, but we anticipate later expansion into non-mobile and commercial markets as our new product portfolios evolve. We currently expect only modest revenue contributions from our new LED and audio product initiatives and no revenue contribution from touch technology product initiatives in 2007. During 2006, we shipped 101.6 million units of our display driver products and we recorded revenue of $101.2 million. Our goal is to be a leading supplier of analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products for consumer electronic devices. As a fabless semiconductor company, we focus on design, development and marketing of our products and outsource all of the fabrication, assembly and testing of our products to outside subcontractors. We believe this concentrated focus enables us to provide our customers with critical time-to-market and product differentiation advantages while avoiding the potential customer conflicts of captive business models. To date, we have sold our products to display module manufacturers, which incorporate our products into their display module subassemblies for mobile handset manufacturers. Our end market customers have been concentrated among a few significant mobile handset manufacturers, including Nokia Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. As we expand our product portfolio to LED drivers, touch technology and audio products, we expect our customer base to broaden to include MP3, personal media player (PMP) manufacturers and other consumer electronic markets, and that we will be selling directly to OEM and ODM manufacturers in addition to our historical module customers. We were incorporated in Delaware on May 15, 2000, and began commercially shipping products in the third quarter of 2002. Our principal executive offices are located in Sunnyvale, California. Our website address is www.leadis.com. This annual report on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, are publicly available on our website without charge promptly following our filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, a copy of this annual report is available without charge on our website at www.leadis.com or upon written request to: Investor Relations, Leadis Technology, Inc., 800 W. California Avenue, Suite 200, Sunnyvale, California 94086. Industry Overview The number of mobile devices requiring display technologies is a large market consisting of products such as mobile handsets, MP3/PMP players, personal data assistants, or PDAs, handheld games, and digital still cameras. 1 Table of Contents According to a leading market research company, the number of small and medium sized displays (9” or less) shipped in 2006 was nearly two billion units. To date, our business has focused primarily on the mobile handset market, which remains one of the largest mobile device markets. Approximately 980 million mobile handsets were sold in 2006, representing an increase of approximately 20% compared to 2005. As mobile device manufacturers continue to introduce new products with innovative technologies and applications, the display has become an increasingly important feature of these devices. Mobile device manufacturers need to balance display performance with cost, reliability and power consumption. Color displays for mobile handsets and other consumer electronic devices are differentiated by size, resolution, number of colors, brightness, color sharpness, contrast and response time. Color super twisted nematic liquid crystal displays, or CSTN LCDs, and thin film transistor liquid crystal displays, or TFT LCDs, are the dominant color display technologies for mobile handsets. CSTN is primarily used for mid- to low-end mobile handsets because of its cost advantage, and TFT is used primarily for mid- to high-end mobile handsets based on better image quality, larger size and higher resolution. In 2006, approximately 60% of all mobile handsets sold contained TFT displays. Organic light emitting diode, or OLED, technology, known for its excellent display quality, has penetrated the mobile device market primarily serving the subdisplays on mobile flip phones and the MP3 market. The penetration rate for OLED displays in the mobile handset market has slowed in recent periods due to its relatively higher cost and the enhanced competitiveness of higher end display technologies such as low-temperature polysilicon, or LTPS. Every mobile device display needs a display driver in order to function. While advances in materials used to manufacture displays have played an important role in display innovation, display drivers are the critical semiconductor components that enable display functionality. The performance characteristics of a display driver are critical to the quality and visual appeal of the images and text generated on the display and the power efficiency of the mobile device. Small LCD displays require a backlight unit to supply the light illuminating the screen, and each backlight unit requires LED drivers. In 2006, IMS Research estimated the total market for LED drivers to be $600 million, with LED drivers for mobile handset backlighting representing the largest portion of the LED driver market. As mobile handsets continue their progression toward increased multimedia and game use, the amount of time that the display is fully-on has increased significantly. In this mode, the display can consume up to one-half of a handset’s total power consumption, with 90% of the display’s power being consumed by the backlight. Accordingly, optimizing the use of the display’s backlight is important to managing total power consumed by the mobile device. Display Driver Product Solutions We offer highly-integrated, single-chip mixed-signal display drivers targeting small panel displays supporting all major display technologies. While driving a large panel display requires multiple discrete integrated circuits, or ICs, such as a display controller, DC to DC converter, and row and column drivers, our small panel display drivers integrate both analog and digital functionality into a single mixed-signal system-on-a-chip, or SoC. To date, we have focused primarily on the mobile handset market, but our display driver products are suitable for use in other consumer electronic devices, including MP3 players and PDAs. Leading handset manufacturers generally require displays with varying resolutions and levels of customization within each display technology, which results in a fragmented market. As a result, companies must be able to supply a broad spectrum of display drivers in order to be successful in our market. To increase the value proposition of our display driver products, we plan to incorporate innovative technology that helps optimize the performance of the display. Our new PowerLitetm products contain a dynamic backlight control algorithm that optimizes power consumption of the LCD display module. At the heart of the algorithm, an analysis of each pixel in a display frame is performed, resulting in a calculation of how the backlight and liquid crystal transmittance can be balanced to achieve the lowest power level. As mobile handsets are increasingly used for multimedia and gaming applications, the amount of time that the display is fully-on has increased significantly. In this mode, the display consumes approximately one-half of the total handset power consumption, with 90% of the display’s power consumed by the backlight. By carefully controlling the backlight power and LCD driving voltages, our PowerLitetm products can reduce the power consumption up to 50% without ambient light input and more than 50% depending upon the ambient light condition. 2 Table of Contents We will also be offering several varieties of high speed serial links for our mobile display drivers. Similar to PC notebook applications, the data communication to the handset display is moving toward high speed serial interfaces for increased design flexibility in flip phones and slide phones, where the link passes through mechanically constrained channels. These serial links also help support the higher data rates required for larger screens with higher color depths. We intend to support both customer-specific serial links, such as CDP and MDDI, as well as the converging industry standard, MIPI DSI. Our display driver product solutions for mobile devices include the following: TFT technology — Thin film transistor liquid crystal display, or TFT LCDs, have been widely used for large panel LCD applications such as notebook PCs, flat panel monitors and televisions. Use of TFT LCDs for small panel applications has gained market share quickly, particularly for mid- to high-end mobile devices including mobile handsets. We design, develop and market display drivers utilizing two types of TFT technology: amorphous silicon TFT (a-TFT) technology, which is now the most prevalent technology used in mobile handsets, and low-temperature polysilicon (LTPS) TFT technology, an advanced form of TFT. We currently offer six different TFT display drivers, and expect to introduce several new a-TFT and LTPS drivers in 2007. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will be generated from sales of a-TFT and LTPS products. We expect to have samples of our new TFT products with our PowerLitetm solution available in the second quarter of 2007. STN technology — Super twisted nematic liquid crystal display, or STN LCDs, is a widely used technology for small panel displays, particularly for displays used in mobile handsets. We design and market both color STN, or CSTN, display drivers, which are used primarily for mainstream mobile handsets, and monochrome STN display drivers, which were the dominant displays for mobile handsets until the introduction of color displays and are currently used mainly in low-end mobile handsets. In 2006, a significant portion of our revenue was derived from sales of CSTN drivers. In 2007, however, we expect to decrease our investment in CSTN products in favor of our TFT products, particularly those with our new PowerLitetm solution. Sales of monochrome STN drivers represented a small portion of our total shipments in 2006, and we expect sales of these products to further decline in 2007. OLED technology — Organic light-emitting diode, or OLED, offers enhanced visual experience and performance characteristics as compared to LCD displays. We were the first company to commercialize single-chip display drivers for full color OLED when we began shipping our first passive matrix OLED, or PM-OLED, driver in the third quarter of 2002. PM-OLED is an alternative to STN and TFT technology and has been utilized in the subdisplays of mobile handsets and other applications such as MP3 players. We currently offer several different PM-OLED display drivers and we expect sales of PM-OLED products to remain a modest part of our business in the immediate future. We are also developing, or plan to develop, drivers for active matrix OLED displays, or AM-OLED, which may be an attractive technology display solution for the main display of mobile handsets due to enhanced visual characteristics in the areas of color gamut, contrast ratio, and viewing angle. LED Driver Product Solutions Our initial LED driver products will be focused on controlling the LED backlight of mobile handsets to optimize power consumption. Small LCD displays require a backlight unit to supply the light illuminating the screen, and each backlight unit requires two to six LED’s and LED drivers. Historically, LED drivers have been functionally independent of the LCD display drivers. However, as power savings becomes an increasingly significant factor in display module performance, communication between LED and LCD drivers becomes an essential requirement. Our existing line of LCD display drivers control the amount of backlight transmitted, facilitating the transformation of digital display data into visual images. Our new line of LED drivers will receive communication from the display driver and thereby control the intensity of the backlight unit required to render a high-quality image at the lowest power consumption levels. Combining our new family of LED drivers with our new PowerLitetm LCD drivers, we expect to be able to provide a system solution for display modules, achieving up to 50% power savings compared to current architectures. 3 Table of Contents We currently offer the following two LED driver products for mobile backlighting applications: The LDS8841 is designed to drive up to four LEDs in parallel at current levels as high as 31mA each. Dimming control to lower LED brightness is achieved through a series of clock pulses on the one wire interface. The device is compatible with input voltages from 3v to 5.5v at efficiency levels as high as 91%. The LDS8862 drives up to six LEDs in parallel at current levels up to 32mA. Current levels may be set in 0.5mA increments using a standard I2C interface. Like the LDS8841, the device is compatible with input voltages from 3v to 5.5v at efficiency levels up to 91%. Future Consumer Audio Product Solutions We recently acquired Mondowave Inc., a developer of semiconductor products for portable audio devices. Through this acquisition, we plan to offer a line of low-power products for audio applications in consumer electronic devices. The initial products will be a low-power CODEC and FM transmitter. We continue to pursue development of additional products to address other segments of the mobile market, including touch screen technology products, and we will continue to introduce newer versions of our existing products. Product Strategy Our objective is to be a leading provider of analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products for mobile and consumer electronic devices by developing our design engineering expertise, manufacturing process experience and strong relationships with top tier handset manufacturers. The principal elements of our strategy are to: • Create greater value in our display drivers. Incorporating innovative technology into our display drivers is essential for our long term success. In 2007, we will add a PowerLitetm solution, consisting of a dynamic backlight control algorithm, and several high-speed serial interfaces to our display driver products. In addition, by combining our new family of LED drivers with our new PowerLitetm LCD drivers, we believe we will be able to provide a system solution for display modules, further enhancing the value of our display driver products. • Continue to focus on a-TFT and LTPS. In order to succeed we must be able to develop products that satisfy the evolving technology and product specifications required by the major handset manufacturers. As the market continues its shift toward TFT LCD displays, we plan to increase the focus of our display driver product development on a-TFT and LTPS products to expand our presence in this key portion of the mobile handset display market. We will maintain a strong focus on research and development to maintain a product portfolio that supports the evolving demands of the handset market. • Provide high-quality and cost-effective designs. In 2006, we allocated resources to improving our new product development processes and overall quality. While this will continue to be a focus in 2007, our cost reduction strategy also depends upon process technology migration. We are now designing our new products using a 0.15um high voltage process and we plan to co-develop a 0.13um high voltage process with a foundry partner for our next generation products. This will enable us to cost-effectively incorporate more features on our display drivers and improve our overall cost structure. • Expand beyond display drivers. We will seek to leverage our core capabilities in analog and mixed-signal product development and a strong position with mobile handset and display module makers, to move into related, higher margin product areas. Due to their anticipated synergy with our existing display driver business, we plan to expand initially with LED drivers and touch sensor technology products. While we will introduce these products initially in the mobile handset market, both areas lend themselves well to diversifying into other markets. Therefore these new product lines may provide both product diversification, as well as market diversification. We also recently announced our future expansion into consumer audio applications through our acquisition of Mondowave Inc. 4 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing We currently sell our products to display module manufacturers, who in turn sell their display modules to mobile handset manufacturers. We focus our sales and marketing strategy on establishing business and technology relationships with both major display module manufacturers and mobile handset manufacturers to allow us to work closely with them on future solutions that align with their product roadmaps. Our design engineers collaborate with display module design engineers to create display drivers that comply with the specifications of the mobile handset manufacturers and provide a high level of performance at competitive prices. Our end customer market is highly concentrated among a few significant mobile handset manufacturers. We market and sell our products through our direct sales force and marketing teams located in the United States, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan, as well as through independent distributors in China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. We also utilize application engineers to provide technical support and assistance to potential and existing customers in designing, testing and qualifying display modules that incorporate our products. Customers In 2006, Samsung SDI Co., TPO Displays Corporation and AU Optronics Corporation accounted for approximately 35%, 31% and 21% of our revenue, respectively. We are actively working with other display module manufacturers on new designs and intend to continue expanding our working relationships with existing customers and cultivating new customers. Even as we expand our customer base, we expect a significant portion of our revenue to be generated from sales to a limited number of customers, including TPO Displays Corporation and Samsung SDI. As a result, the loss of or significant reduction in orders from either of these customers could significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our operating results. These mobile display module manufacturers supply modules incorporating our drivers to a concentrated group of significant mobile handset manufacturers, including Nokia Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sales to customers located in Japan represented approximately 20% our total sales in the fourth quarter of 2006. We expect sales to Japanese customers to increase in 2007 as a percentage of our total revenue. Please refer to Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report for additional information regarding revenue by geographic region. Seasonality Our industry is focused on the mobile consumer electronic products market. Due to the seasonality in this market, we typically expect to see stronger revenue growth in the second half of the calendar year than in the first half of the year. In addition to the seasonality, the mobile handset market is also characterized by intense competition among a concentrated group of manufacturers, rapidly evolving technology and changing consumer preferences. These factors result in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, continually evolving mobile handset specifications and significant price competition. In addition, in the past, mobile handset manufacturers have inaccurately forecast consumer demand, which has led to significant changes in orders to their component suppliers. We have experienced both increases and decreases to orders within the same quarter and with limited advance notice. We expect such increases and decreases of orders to continue to occur in the future. Manufacturing We outsource the manufacturing, assembly and testing of our products to third parties. Our foundry suppliers fabricate our products using a customized, high-voltage version of their mature and stable CMOS process technology with feature sizes of 0.15 micron and higher. Our principal foundry suppliers are Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing in Singapore, Silterra Malaysia Sdn.Bhd. in Malaysia and United Microelectronics Corporation in Taiwan, but we anticipate also using other foundry suppliers in the future. Our fabless manufacturing model significantly reduces our capital requirements and allows us to focus our resources on the design, development and marketing of our products. In addition, we benefit from our suppliers’ manufacturing expertise, and from the flexibility to select those vendors that we believe offer the best capability and value. To the extent our 5 Table of Contents foundry suppliers experience poor yield rates or tightened capacity conditions, we may be unable to meet our customers’ demand requirements and our business may be harmed. Following wafer fabrication processing, our wafers are shipped from the foundries to assembly and testing contractors, where they are electrically tested and assembled onto tape carrier packages for certain devices. We develop and control all product test programs used by our subcontractors. These test programs are developed based on product specifications, thereby maintaining our control over the performance of our devices. We currently rely primarily on Chipbond Technology Corporation, International Semiconductor Technology Ltd. and King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd., each located in Taiwan, to assemble and test our products. As our product portfolio expands, we may use additional assembly and testing contractors. To the extent these contractors experience heightened demand for their services, we may be unable to secure sufficient testing and assembly capacity to meet our customers’ product demand requirements. While our testing contractors currently ship our products directly to our customers, we may in the future ship products to customers out of our own facility. Inventory We manage inventories by forecasting product-by-product demand based upon our industry experience and communications with our customers. We place manufacturing orders for our products that are based on this forecasted demand. The quantity of products actually purchased by our customers as well as shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers’ requirements and in manufacturing availability. Depending upon the level of demand for our products and demand for products incorporating our display drivers, we may maintain substantial inventories of our products in order to be able to meet demand on a timely basis. In addition, any cancellation, modification or delay in shipments in the future may impact our inventory levels. Research and Development To date, we have conducted our semiconductor design and development activities primarily in Korea. This allows us to access a pool of experienced display driver engineers and maintain geographic proximity to our customers while helping us lower our operating costs. As we expand our product base, we may add additional research and development capacity in other locations to maintain close proximity to customers, access experienced engineers and contain costs. We believe that our continued commitment to research and development and timely introduction of new and enhanced display drivers is integral to maintaining our competitive position. As a result, we expect to continue to allocate significant resources to these efforts. Our total expenditures for research and development were $13.8 million for 2006, $14.5 million for 2005 and $15.0 million for 2004. Intellectual Property Our success and future growth will depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret laws, contractual provisions, and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We also attempt to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information through agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants. As of December 31, 2006, we had six U.S. patent applications pending, twelve foreign patent applications pending, and had been issued four U.S. patents and two patents in Korea. In addition, Mondowave Inc., which we recently acquired, has filed approximately ten patent applications relating to its audio technology. These patent applications and issued patents cover our intellectual property contained in our LCD display drivers. We expect to file additional patent applications covering our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that any patents will be issued to us as a result of our pending or future applications or that any patent issued will provide substantive protection for the technology or product covered by it. While we intend to protect our intellectual property rights vigorously, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful. Despite our precautions, a third party may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, technology or processes without authorization, or may independently develop similar technology. In addition, effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that the measures we have implemented to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property will be successful. 6 Table of Contents Competition The markets for semiconductors generally, and small panel display drivers in particular, are intensely competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include cost, design times, display performance, level of integration, design customization, manufacturing expertise and quality. We believe our solutions compete favorably across these factors. However, many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, complementary product offerings, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. We anticipate that the market for our products will be subject to rapid technological change. Many mobile device display module manufacturers are affiliated with vertically integrated electronics companies. Some of these companies also have semiconductor design and manufacturing resources for developing display drivers. We typically compete with these captive semiconductor suppliers as well as independent semiconductor suppliers. Captive semiconductor suppliers with which we may compete include semiconductor divisions of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, Sharp Electronics Corporation and Toshiba Corporation. The major independent suppliers of display drivers with which we may compete include Himax Technologies, Ltd., MagnaChip Semiconductor Ltd., NEC Corporation, Novatek Microelectronics Corp., Ltd., Renesas Technology Corp., Sitronix Technology Corporation, and Solomon Systech Limited. We expect the competitors for our new LED driver and audio application businesses will be different from the competitors for our display driver business. Suppliers of LED drivers for mobile backlighting include Advanced Analogic Technologies, Inc., Linear Technologies, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Micrel Incorporated, National Semiconductor Corporation, and Texas Instruments Incorporated. We expect potential competitors for our new audio products to include Wolfson Microelectronics, Texas Instruments, Rohm Co., ST Microelectronics, National Semiconductor and Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. These potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, complementary product offerings, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 141 employees, including 67 in research and development, 23 in operations and 51 in sales, marketing, general and administrative functions. By region, 16 of our employees were located in the United States, 94 in Korea and 31 in other parts of Asia. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe we have good relations with our employees. Financial Information by Geographic Location We operate in a single industry segment: the design, development and marketing of mixed-signal semiconductors that enable and enhance the features and capabilities of small panel displays for mobile consumer electronic products, primarily mobile handsets. We currently generate all of our revenue from customers in Asia. Related information is included in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K in evaluating our company and our business. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be impaired. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 7 Table of Contents We depend on a small number of key customers for substantially all of our revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any key customer would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our operating results. We sell display drivers to display module manufacturers serving the mobile handset market. Historically, substantially all of our revenue has been generated from sales to a very small number of customers. During 2006, our top three customers, Samsung SDI Co., TPO Displays Corporation, including both Philips Mobile Display Systems and Toppoly Optoelectronics Corporation, which merged in the second quarter of 2006, and AU Optronics Corporation accounted for approximately 35%, 31% and 21% of our revenue, respectively. The loss of, or a reduction in purchases by, any of our key customers could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in the first quarter of 2007, we announced that we would not continue to supply a large CSTN program at Samsung SDI Co. The loss of this program will have a significant impact on our revenue for the first half of 2007. We also anticipate that our sales to AU Optronics will decline in the first half of 2007 as a mature program ramps down. Our market has a relatively small number of potential customers and we expect this market concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, even as we seek to broaden our customer base we expect that our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, though we expect that the specific customers that represent a significant portion of our revenue will fluctuate from period to period. As further discussed in a risk factor below, because our sales to these customers are made pursuant to standard purchase orders rather than contracts, orders may be cancelled or reduced more readily than if we had long-term purchase commitments with these customers. In the event of a cancellation or reduction of an order, we may not have enough time to reduce operating expenses to minimize the effect of the lost revenue on our business. Consolidation in our customers’ industries may result in increased customer concentration and the potential loss of customers. In 2006, the business of Philips MDS, one of our largest customers, merged with Toppoly Optoelectronics Corporation, another customer, to form TPO Displays Corporation. In addition, some of our customers may have efforts underway to actively diversify their supply chain, which could reduce their purchases of our products. Our customers include our products in displays sold to a small number of handset manufacturers, and the loss of business by our customers with these handset manufacturers could adversely affect our business. Nearly all of our products are used for displays sold for use in mobile handsets manufactured by a concentrated group of handset manufacturers. Moreover, the large majority of our products are used in handsets manufactured by Nokia Corporation. To the extent any of our module display customers lose some or all of their business with the mobile handset manufacturers to which they supply modules containing our products, and Nokia in particular, our business would be adversely affected. Our efforts to expand our product portfolio and enter into new markets have attendant execution risk. All of our products introduced to date have been display drivers for small panel displays used in mobile handsets or MP3 players. One of our corporate strategies, however, involves leveraging our core strengths in analog and mixed-signal design to expand into new markets. For example, we recently announced our intention to develop and sell LED drivers and touch technology sensor products. We also recently announced the acquisition of Mondowave Inc., a developer of semiconductor products for consumer audio applications, which we expect to introduce later this year. We will likely expend substantial resources, including cash, in developing new and additional products for these and other new markets. We currently expect only modest revenue contributions from our new LED and audio product initiatives and no revenue contribution from touch technology product initiatives in 2007. However, we may experience unforeseen difficulties and delays in developing these products as well as defects upon production. Moreover, we do not have a long history in these markets, and our lack of market knowledge relative to other participants in such markets may prevent us from competing effectively in them. It is possible that our competitive strengths will not translate effectively into these markets, or that these markets will not develop at the rates we anticipate. Any of these events could negatively affect our future operating results. 8 Table of Contents We may undertake acquisitions to expand our business that may pose risks to our business, reduce our cash balance and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. We recently announced the acquisition of Mondowave Inc., a semiconductor company specializing in consumer audio applications. As part of our growth and product diversification strategy, we will continue to evaluate and pursue opportunities to acquire other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of markets we can address or enhance our technical capabilities. The acquisition of Mondowave and any acquisitions that we may potentially make in the future entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, operating and financial results, including: • problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products with our existing business and products; • diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; • need for financial resources above our planned investment levels; • difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; • risks associated with entering markets in which we lack prior experience; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and • potential requirement to amortize intangible assets. Such acquisitions also could cause us to expend a substantial portion of our cash balances, incur debt or contingent liabilities, incur accounting charges, or cause us to issue equity securities that would reduce the ownership percentages of existing stockholders, which could impair our financial position. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment. In addition, any future acquisitions may not be favorably received by investors or securities analysts, which could cause declines in our stock price. If we are unable to timely develop new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new display drivers and product enhancements that achieve timely and cost-effective market acceptance. The development of our display drivers is highly complex, and we have experienced, and in the future may experience, delays in the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements. In addition, because we sell our products to display module manufacturers, we have limited visibility into the specification requirements of the mobile handset manufacturers, making it more difficult for us to influence or predict future technology requirements. Once a display module manufacturer or mobile handset manufacturer designs a competitor’s product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers typically involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Successful product development and market acceptance of our products depend on a number of factors, including: • accurate prediction of changing requirements of customers within the mobile device and small panel display markets; • timely completion and introduction of new designs, including low-cost versions of existing products; • timely qualification and certification of our drivers for use in our customers’ products; • the prices at which we are able to offer our products; • quality, performance, power use and size of our products as compared to competing products and technologies; • successful integration of the display module, including components supplied by other suppliers; • commercial acceptance and commercial production of the products into which our drivers are incorporated; 9 Table of Contents • achievement of acceptable manufacturing yields; • interoperability of our products with other display module components; • our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness; • successful development of our relationships with existing and potential customers; • mobile service providers’ demand for handsets incorporating our products; and • changes in technology, industry standards or end-user preferences. We cannot assure you that products we recently developed, such as our new PowerLitetm LCD drivers and LED drivers or other products we may develop in the future, will achieve market acceptance. If these display drivers fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to develop new products that achieve market acceptance, our growth prospects, operating results and competitive position could be adversely affected. For example, delays in product introductions in 2006 and lack of high-volume design wins will harm our financial results in the first half of 2007. While new product introductions in the first half of 2007 may improve our sales outlook for the second half of 2007, we cannot assure you that these new introductions will occur timely, nor can we assure you that these new introductions will generate sufficient sales to offset expected declines on older products. If we are unable to comply with evolving customer specifications and requirements, customers may choose other products instead of our own. Our products are incorporated in display modules, which must comply with mobile handset manufacturers’ continually evolving specifications. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to comply with these specifications. We must continue to incorporate additional features and advanced technology, such as dynamic backlight control and high speed serial interfaces, into our products to be successful. In addition, as we seek to add new customers, such as those in the Japan market, we will need to comply with new, and sometimes more stringent, specifications and quality standards. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing specifications for a significant period of time, we could miss opportunities to have customers choose our drivers over those of our competitors early in the customer’s design process, which is known as a design win. Loss of design wins could harm our business because display module manufacturers and mobile handset manufacturers typically do not change display drivers once a display module is designed. In addition, loss of a design win may make it more difficult to obtain future design wins with the manufacturer. We may not be successful in developing new products or product enhancements that achieve market acceptance. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances requires substantial time and expense and may not be successful, which would harm our competitive position. The average selling prices of our products tend to decline over time, often rapidly, and if we are unable to develop successful new products in a timely manner, our operating results will be harmed. The mobile handset market is extremely cost sensitive, which has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices of the components comprising mobile handsets, including display modules and display drivers. The products we develop and sell are used for high volume applications and the average selling prices tend to decline, often rapidly, over the life of the product. We may reduce the average unit price of our products in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. In recent periods, we experienced significant declines in the average selling prices of our products, which also harms our gross margins. Our average selling price declined from $1.32 in 2005 to $1.00 in 2006. As display driver prices vary by technology, our average selling price for any period is also impacted by our mix of products sold for that period. In recent periods our mix of products sold has been weighted more heavily toward more mature products that command a lower price, which has reduced our average selling price. To maintain acceptable operating results, we will need to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continue to reduce our production costs. If we are unable to offset reductions in our average selling prices by timely introducing new products at higher average prices or reducing or production costs, our operating results will suffer. 10 Table of Contents We are dependent on sales of a small number of products, and the absence of continued market acceptance of these products could harm our business. Historically, we have derived all of our revenue from a limited number of display driver products primarily used in mobile handset displays, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenue from these or related products in the near term. As a result, decline in market demand for one or more of our products, or the failure of one or more of our products to gain broad market acceptance, could result in a significant decline in revenue and reduced operating results. Our product portfolio has traditionally been heavily weighted toward products based on color super twisted nematic liquid crystal display, or CSTN, and color organic light-emitting diode, or OLED, technology. Demand for our OLED drivers declined in 2005, which negatively impacted our business. Similarly, the market has begun transitioning away from CSTN in favor of thin film transistor, or TFT, and low temperature polysilicon, or LTPS, devices. We recently announced that we will place greater focus on our TFT and LTPS product development and reduce our allocation of resources to CSTN products, reflecting the ongoing market trend. In the short-term, our transition away from CSTN devices will negatively impact our total revenue. Moreover, market acceptance of our new TFT and LTPS products is critical to our future success. Our business is highly dependent on the mobile handset market, which is highly concentrated and characterized by significant price competition, short product life cycles, fluctuations in demand, and seasonality, any of which could negatively impact our business or results of operations. Nearly all of our revenue is generated from sales of display drivers for use in mobile handsets. The mobile handset market is characterized by intense competition among a concentrated group of manufacturers, rapidly evolving technology, and changing consumer preferences. These factors result in the frequent introduction of new products, significant price competition, short product life cycles, and continually evolving mobile handset specifications. If we, our customers or mobile handset manufacturers are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Our business is also dependent on the broad commercial acceptance of the mobile handsets into which our drivers are incorporated. Even though we may achieve design wins, if the mobile handsets incorporating our products do not achieve significant customer acceptance, our revenue will be adversely affected. We expect our business to be subject to seasonality and varying order patterns in the mobile handset market. In the mobile handset market, demand is typically stronger in the second half of the year than the first half of the year. However, in the past mobile handset manufacturers inaccurately forecasted consumer demand, which led to significant changes in orders to their component suppliers. We have experienced both increases and decreases in orders within the same quarter and with limited advance notice, and we expect such increases and decreases to occur in the future. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. If we, or our customers, are unable to increase production of new or existing products to meet any increases in demand due to seasonality or other factors, our revenue from such products would be adversely affected and this may damage our reputation with our customers and the mobile handset manufacturers. Conversely, if our customers or the mobile handset manufacturers overestimate consumer demand, they may reduce their orders or delay shipments of our products from amounts forecasted, and our revenue in a particular period could be adversely affected. Our revenue has fluctuated significantly from year to year, so you should not rely on the results of any past periods as an indication of future revenue performance or growth. In the past, we have experienced significant revenue fluctuation from quarter to quarter and year to year. For example, our annual revenue grew 970% in 2003 and 78% in 2004, but declined 57% in 2005. While our revenue increased 58% in 2006 compared to 2005, we do not expect revenue growth in 2007. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior annual periods as an indication of our future revenue growth or financial results. We have incurred losses in prior periods and will incur losses in the future. Although we realized net income of approximately $12.8 million and $17.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, respectively, we incurred net losses of $11.4 million and $11.9 million in 2005 and 11 Table of Contents 2006, respectively, and we expect to incur a net loss in 2007. We expect to incur additional operating expenses in the next several quarters in connection with the development and expansion of our business to new products and markets. Our ability to return to or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future depends in part on our ability to develop new products, the rate of growth of our target markets, the competitive position of our products, the continued acceptance of our customers’ products, and our ability to manage expenses. We may not again achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our quarterly financial results fluctuate, which leads to volatility in our stock price. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to do so in the future. As a result, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our revenue and operating results could negatively affect the trading price of our stock. In addition, our revenue and results of operations may, in the future, be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Factors that are likely to cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate include the risk factors discussed throughout this section. Our products are complex and may require modifications to resolve undetected errors or failures, which could lead to an increase in our costs, a loss of customers or a delay in market acceptance of our products. Our small panel display drivers are highly complex and have contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new revisions are released. If we deliver products with errors or defects, we may incur additional development, repair or replacement costs, our margin rates will suffer, and our credibility and the market acceptance of our products could be harmed. Defects in our products could also lead to liability as a result of lawsuits against us or our customers. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our products. A successful product liability claim could require us to make significant damage payments. Our products must interoperate with the display module components supplied to our customers by other suppliers. Our small panel display drivers comprise only part of a complex display subassembly manufactured by our display module customers. As a result, our drivers must operate according to specifications with the other components in the subassembly. For example, in the subassembly our drivers are attached to the display glass and must interoperate with the glass efficiently. If other components of the subassembly system fail to operate efficiently with our drivers, we may be required to incur additional development time and costs optimizing the interoperability of our drivers with the other components. Additionally, if other components of the subassembly contain errors or defects that cannot be corrected in a timely fashion, the display module customer may delay or cancel production of its modules, adversely impacting our sales. Failure to transition to new manufacturing process technologies could adversely affect our operating results and gross margin. To remain competitive, we strive to manufacture our drivers using increasingly smaller geometries and higher levels of design integration. Our strategy is to utilize the most advanced manufacturing process technology appropriate for our products and available from our third-party foundry contractors. Use of advanced processes may have greater risk of initial yield problems and higher production costs. Manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development. In the past, we have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. Moreover, we are dependent on our relationships with our third-party manufacturers to successfully migrate to smaller geometry processes. The inability by us or our third-party manufacturers to effectively and efficiently transition to new manufacturing process technologies may adversely affect our gross margin and our operating results. 12 Table of Contents Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan our expenses. We were formed in May 2000 and had our initial meaningful shipments of products in the third quarter of 2002. As a result, we have limited historical financial data from which to predict our future revenue and expenses. Moreover, because we do not sell directly to mobile handset manufacturers, we have limited visibility into their order patterns and sales of their products. Due to our limited operating history and limited visibility into mobile handset manufacturers’ demand, it is difficult to accurately forecast our future revenue and budget our operating expenses. The rapidly evolving nature of the mobile handset market and other factors that are beyond our control also limit our ability to accurately forecast revenue and expenses. Because most of our expenses are fixed in the short term or incurred in advance of anticipated revenue, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall in revenue. If we fail to accurately forecast customer demand, we may have excess or insufficient inventory, which may increase our operating costs and harm our business. We sell our drivers to display module manufacturers who integrate our drivers into the displays that they supply to handset manufacturers. We have limited visibility as to the volume of our products that our customers are selling to their customers or carrying in their inventory. If our customers have excess inventory or experience a slowing of products sold through to their end customers, it would likely result in a slowdown in orders from our customers and adversely impact our future sales. Moreover, to ensure availability of our products for our customers, in some cases we start the manufacturing of our products based on forecasts provided by these customers in advance of receiving purchase orders. However, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments, and we do not recognize revenue from these products until they are shipped to the customer. As a result, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated revenue. If we overestimate customer demand for our drivers or if purchase orders are cancelled or shipments delayed by our customers, we may end up with excess inventory that we cannot sell, which would harm our financial results. For example, we recorded a $2.9 million inventory reserve charge in 2006 due to inventory that was in excess of forecasted demand. This inventory risk is exacerbated because many of our products are customized, which hampers our ability to sell any excess inventory to the general market. Our customer orders are subject to cancellation, reduction or delay in delivery schedules, which may result in lower than anticipated revenue. Our sales are generally made pursuant to standard purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. These purchase orders may be cancelled or modified or the shipment dates delayed by the customer. Although we have not in the past experienced significant cancellations of orders, we may in the future experience such cancellations. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in scheduled shipment dates, which have on occasion resulted, and may in the future result, in our recognizing revenue in a later period than anticipated. We have also experienced reductions to previously placed purchase orders. Any cancellation, modification or delay in shipments in the future may result in lower than anticipated revenue. We face significant competition and may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors. The markets for semiconductors generally, and small panel display drivers in particular, are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase and intensify in the future. Increased competition may result in price pressure, reduced profitability and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our revenue and operating results. The major independent semiconductor suppliers with which we may compete for sales of our LCD display drivers include Himax Technologies, Ltd., MagnaChip Semiconductor Ltd., NEC Corporation, Novatek Microelectronics Corp., Ltd., Renesas Technology Corp., Sitronix Technology Corporation, and Solomon Systech Limited. Additionally, many mobile device display module manufacturers are affiliated with vertically integrated electronics companies. Some of these companies also have semiconductor design and manufacturing resources for developing display drivers. Captive semiconductor suppliers with which we may compete include semiconductor divisions of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, Sharp Electronics Corporation and Toshiba Corporation. 13 Table of Contents Potential competitors for our new LED drivers include Advanced Analogic, Inc., Linear Technologies, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Micrel Incorporated, National Semiconductor Corporation, and Texas Instruments Incorporated. We expect potential competitors for our new audio products to include Wolfson Microelectronics, Texas Instruments, Rohm Co., ST Microelectronics, National Semiconductor and Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, complementary product offerings, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. In addition, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to obtain wafer fabrication capacity when we are unable to do so. Any of these factors could cause us to be at a competitive disadvantage to our existing and potential new competitors. We face competition from businesses related to our customers, which could harm our business. Our direct customers for our display drivers are display module manufacturers serving the mobile handset market. One primary customer, Samsung SDI, is affiliated with a corporate organization that has a division that designs, manufactures and sells display drivers that compete with our products. To the extent this customer chooses to replace our products with an affiliate’s products, our business will be negatively impacted. We rely on a limited number of independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our chipsets and on a third party logistics provider to ship products to our customers. The failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. As a fabless semiconductor company, we do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have limited in-house testing facilities. As a result, we rely on third-party vendors to manufacture, assemble and test the products that we design. We primarily rely on Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing in Singapore, Silterra Malaysia Sdn Bhd. in Malaysia, and United Microelectronis Corporation in Taiwan to produce our products. We also rely on Chipbond Technology Corporation, International Semiconductor Technology Ltd. and King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd, each located in Taiwan, to assemble and test our products. If these vendors do not provide us with high-quality products, services and/or production and test capacity in a timely manner, or if the relationship with one or more of these vendors is terminated, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacements and/or we may be unable to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, our relationships with our customers could suffer, our sales could decrease and our growth could be limited. We face risks associated with relying on third-party vendors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products. We face significant risks associated with relying on third-party vendors, including: • reduced ability to increase production and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis; • reduced control over delivery schedules and product quality; • limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; • limited ability to obtain insurance coverage for business interruptions related to contractors; • increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; • shortages of materials that foundries use to manufacture our products; • labor shortages or labor strikes; • political instability in countries where contractors are located; and • actions taken by our subcontractors that breach our agreements 14 Table of Contents We do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party manufacturing vendors and they may allocate capacity to other customers and may not allocate sufficient capacity to us to meet future demands for our products. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our third-party contractors. As a result, none of our third-party contractors is obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Moreover, none of our third-party foundry or assembly and test vendors has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demand for our products. We provide our foundry contractors with monthly rolling forecasts of our production requirements; however, the ability of each foundry to provide wafers to us is limited by the foundry’s available capacity. Our foundry contractors use raw materials in the manufacture of wafers used to manufacture our products. To the extent our foundry contractors experience shortages of these wafers, we may be unable to obtain capacity as required. In addition, the price of our wafers will fluctuate based on changes in available industry capacity. Our foundry, assembly and test contractors may allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice or increasing the prices they charge us. These foundry, assembly and test contractors may reallocate capacity to other customers that are larger and better financed than us or that have long-term agreements or relationships with these foundries or assembly and test contractors, which would decrease the capacity available to us. Moreover, to the extent we decide to, or are required to, change contractors we will face risks associated with establishing new business relationships and processes capacity. To secure manufacturing capacity at our foundry, assembly and test suppliers we may be required to make substantial purchase commitments or prepayments in future periods or enter into agreements that commit us to purchase minimum quantities in order to secure capacity or to achieve favorable prices. While we currently do not have plans for long-term agreements with any of our suppliers, we may enter into such agreements in the future, which could reduce our cash flow and subject us to risks of excess inventory or service costs. Failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for existing and/or new products would reduce our gross margin and could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We have experienced, and may again experience, manufacturing yields that were less than we had anticipated. Semiconductor manufacturing yields are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which is typically developed by our third-party foundries. As low manufacturing yields may result from either design or process technology failures, yield problems may not be effectively determined or resolved until an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested to identify sensitivities relating to the design processes used. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well after the production process has begun. Any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our manufacturing costs and decrease our ability to fulfill customer orders in a timely fashion. This could potentially have a negative impact on our revenue, our gross margin, our gross profit, and our customer relationships. The manufacturing yields for new products tend to be lower initially and increase as we achieve full production. The short product life cycles of our display drivers requires us to develop new products faster and to manufacture these products for shorter periods of time. In many cases, these shorter manufacturing periods will not reach the longer, higher volume manufacturing periods conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. We also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. A significant number of product returns due to a defect or recall could damage our reputation and result in our customers working with our competitors. Use of our customized manufacturing process by our foundry contractors in connection with their manufacturing of our competitors’ products could harm our business. In an effort to increase yields and reduce manufacturing times, we have developed with our foundry contractors a customized version of the manufacturing process used for the fabrication of our drivers. While we have expended significant resources on the customization of this process, the process is not proprietary to us, and may be used by our foundry partners in the fabrication of semiconductors for their other customers. Any use of this customized manufacturing process for the manufacture of our competitors’ products could harm our competitive position. 15 Table of Contents The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, and our operating results may be negatively impacted by downturns in the general semiconductor industry. Our business is impacted by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies and their customers and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns could significantly harm our sales, reduce our profitability or result in losses for a prolonged period of time. From time to time, the semiconductor industry also has experienced periods of increased demand and production capacity constraints. We may experience substantial changes in future operating results due to general semiconductor industry conditions, general economic conditions and other factors. Any disruption to our operations or the operations of our foundry, assembly and test contractors resulting from earthquakes or other natural disasters could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products. Our corporate headquarters are located in California. In addition, a substantial portion of our engineering operations and the third-party contractors that manufacture, assemble and test our drivers are located in the Pacific Rim. The risk of losses due to an earthquake in California and the Pacific Rim is significant due to the proximity to major earthquake fault lines. The occurrence of earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in disruption of our operations and the operations of our foundry, assembly and test contractors. We rely on our key personnel to manage our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. Our future success will also depend on our ability to retain the services of our key personnel, developing their successors and effectively managing the transition of key roles when they occur. In November 2005, we hired Antonio Alvarez as our President and Chief Executive Officer, who will significantly influence the future direction and strategy of the Company. In addition, Dr. Steve Ahn, our founder and former CEO, and Daniel Hauck, our former Vice President of Worldwide Sales, left the Company in 2006. As a result, our success will depend in part on our ability to manage these management changes. Moreover, if we lose any of our key technical or senior management personnel, or are unable to fill key positions, our business could be harmed. There are a limited number of qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacture, and sale of small panel display drivers, and we may face challenges hiring and retaining these types of employees. Our ability to expand our operations to meet corporate growth objectives depends upon our ability to hire and retain additional senior management personnel and qualified technical personnel in our product design team. Our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain, copy or use information that we regard as proprietary, such as product design and manufacturing process expertise. As of December 31, 2006, we had six U.S. patent applications pending, twelve foreign patent applications pending and had been issued four U.S. patents and two Korea patents. In addition, Mondowave Inc., which we recently acquired, has filed approximately ten patent applications relating to its audio technology. Our pending patent applications and any future applications may not result in issued patents and any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Moreover, policing any unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the measures we have implemented will prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. The enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our 16 Table of Contents trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. Assertions by third parties of infringement by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and cause our operating results to suffer. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. Although we are not currently a party to legal action alleging our infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, in the future we may receive letters from various industry participants alleging infringement of patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights. Any lawsuits resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products or using technology that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • pay damages to the party claiming infringement; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. In the future, the outcome of a dispute may be that we would need to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. We may also initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. We have agreed to indemnify certain customers for certain claims of infringement arising out of the sale of our products. We have significant international activities and customers, and plan to continue such efforts, which subjects us to additional business risks including increased logistical complexity, political instability and currency fluctuations. We are incorporated and headquartered in the United States, and we have international subsidiaries in Korea, the Cayman Islands and Hong Kong. We have engineering and sales personnel in Korea and sales and/or operations personnel in China, Hong Kong, Japan, and Taiwan. All of our revenue to date has been attributable to customers located outside of the United States. We anticipate that all or substantially all of our revenue will continue to be represented by sales to customers in Asia. In addition, we anticipate that any growth of our business will involve international locations, which may include locations in which the Company does not currently do business. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; • protectionist and other foreign laws and business practices that favor local competition in some countries; • difficulties in managing foreign operations, including cultural differences; • difficulty in hiring qualified management, technical sales and applications engineers; • inadequate local infrastructure; • multiple, conflicting and changing laws, regulations, export and import restrictions, and tax schemes; • potentially longer and more difficult collection periods and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • political and economic instability. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future sales and operations and, consequently, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Our inability to effectively manage growth in our operations may prevent us from successfully expanding our business. We recently announced our intention to expand our operations to include LED driver and touch technology products. In addition, we also recently acquired Mondowave Inc., a developer of consumer audio products. As a result of these new ventures, we will increase the scope and complexity of our operations and expand our workforce. This growth will likely place a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. In addition, we anticipate that we will continue to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, manage multiple suppliers and greater levels of inventories. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could result in significant charges against income and the deferral of revenue recognition from sales to affected customers, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers’ businesses and to downturns in the economy and the industry. In addition, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable or the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As we seek to expand our customer base, it is possible that new customers may expose us to greater credit risk than our existing customers. Accounts receivable owed by foreign customers may be difficult to collect. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required and we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, which could adversely affect our operating results. We may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions in the future, which could negatively impact our financial results. We may need to raise additional capital, which might not be available or which, if available, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. We believe our existing cash balances and cash expected to be generated from our operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and other needs for at least the next twelve months. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, the ownership percentage of our stockholders would be reduced, and the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If we borrow money, we may incur significant interest charges, which could harm our profitability. Holders of debt would also have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors and significant costs related to litigation. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile. This could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly variations in revenue or operating results; • failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our financial performance; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; 18 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of new product and service offerings, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic relationships; • publicity about our company or our products or our competitors; • announcements by mobile handset manufacturers; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors’ operating results or changes in their growth rates; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the trading volume of our common stock; • any future sales of our common stock or other securities; and • stock market price and volume fluctuations of publicly-traded companies in general and semiconductor companies in particular. Investors may be unable to resell their shares of our common stock at or above their purchase price. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities, such as the lawsuit filed against us in March 2005. This securities litigation, and any other such litigation, may result in significant costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may influence actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. We believe that our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 22% of our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2007. As a result, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations. This concentration of beneficial ownership could be disadvantageous to other stockholders whose interests are different from those of our executive officers and directors. For example, our executive officers and directors, acting together with stockholders owning a relatively small percentage of our outstanding stock, could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger even if the transaction would benefit other stockholders. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, on January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” which requires that we record compensation expense in our statement of operations for stock-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. The adoption of this new standard had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our reported earnings, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of stock-based payments. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of SFAS No. 123(R) in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under SFAS No. 123(R) may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period, which could negatively affect our stock price. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, our ability to provide accurate financial statements could be impaired and any failure to maintain our internal controls and provide accurate financial statements could cause our stock price to decrease substantially. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. This legislation is relatively new and companies and accounting firms lack significant experience in complying with its requirements. As a result, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, increased expense and to devote significant management resources to Section 404 compliance. If in the future our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions of our company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay transactions resulting in a change in control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors, so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirors at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 