Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below are certain risk factors related to the Company’s business. The risk factors described below may not include all of the risk factors that could affect future results. For example, the Company is subject to a wide array of risks that face all similarly situated companies, including its dependence on information systems, the continued service of its key employees, the impact of environmental laws, and the potential for product liability claims. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated as a result of these and various other factors, including the following risk factors, which the Company believes are the most significant and specific risks associated with its businesses, and those set forth in the Company’s other periodic and current reports filed with the Commission from time to time. See “Forward—Looking Statements.” 11 Table of Contents The recent restatement of our previously issued financial statements has had a material adverse impact on us, including increased costs, the increased possibility of legal or administrative proceedings, and the delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Capital Market. We determined that our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 should be restated, as described in more detail in our Amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for such year and our Amended Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for such quarter. As a result of these restatements, we have become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including: · We incurred substantial unanticipated costs for accounting, legal and consultancy fees in 2005 in connection with the restatements. Although the restatements are complete, we expect to continue to incur additional costs as noted below; · The Securities and Exchange Commission has instituted a formal investigation of the Company’s financial statements. This investigation has diverted our management’s time and attention and caused us to incur substantial costs. These investigations can also lead to fines or injunctions or orders with respect to future activities, as well as further substantial costs and diversion of management time and attention; and · The need to complete an internal investigation and restate our previously issued financial statements caused us to be late in filing our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005, which caused us to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market in February 2006. See “Our common stock was delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, which may reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders and cause confusion among investors” for additional discussion regarding the Nasdaq delisting. Material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting. Maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. As disclosed in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” of this report and as previously disclosed in our Amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2004, our Amended Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2005, management’s assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting identified material weaknesses related to inadequate staffing and training in the accounting function over the Company’s processing of certain financial information and improper segregation of duties over the processing and review of journal entries. We have implemented and continue to implement remediation efforts related to these material weaknesses; however, if these material weaknesses are not fully remedied or otherwise mitigated, they could result in material misstatements of the Company’s financial statements in the future. Additional restatements would materially impact our ability to timely file financial statements in the future and perceptions of us could also be adversely affected among customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others. Any future weaknesses or deficiencies could also hurt confidence in our business and financial statements and our ability to do business with these groups. Our common stock was delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, which may reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders and cause confusion among investors. Our common stock was delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market on February 3, 2006. Unless and until the Company’s common stock is relisted on Nasdaq, our common stock is expected to be quoted on the Pink Sheets or, if any of our current market makers file a Form 211, on the over-the-counter bulletin board. The current quotation of our common stock on the Pink Sheets may reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the current quotation of our common stock on the Pink Sheets may materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and any limitation on liquidity or reduction in 12 Table of Contents the price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us or at all. Stocks that are quoted on the Pink Sheets are no longer eligible for margin loans, and a company quoted on the Pink Sheets cannot avail itself of federal preemption of state securities or “blue sky” laws, which adds substantial compliance costs to securities issuances, including pursuant to employee option plans, stock purchase plans and private or public offerings of securities. Our delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market and current quotation on the Pink Sheets may also have other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. While we plan to apply to have our common stock relisted on The Nasdaq Stock Market, our common stock may not ultimately be relisted. Even if we are successful in getting our common stock relisted on Nasdaq, the relisting may cause confusion among investors who have become accustomed to our being quoted on the Pink Sheets as they seek to determine our stock price or trade in our stock. We are dependent upon the size of the preschool and elementary school-age populations, levels of enrollment and expenditures per child in child care programs and elementary schools. Our ability to grow our business depends in part on the size of the population in early childhood programs, preschools and elementary schools, the levels of enrollment of such population in child care centers and elementary schools and the level of expenditures per child in child care programs and elementary schools. The level of enrollment in early childhood programs and preschools depends in part on parents’ attitudes toward early childhood education, while the level of student enrollment in elementary schools is largely a function of demographics. Expenditures per child are a function of prevailing political and social attitudes toward education, as well as government budgets. Any significant and sustained decline in the size of the preschool and elementary school-age populations, levels of enrollment and/or expenditures per student could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 1. Business—Industry Overview.” Our business is highly seasonal and our annual results are highly dependent on the success of our third quarter results. We are affected by seasonal shopping patterns. A significant portion of our sales occurs in the third quarter, coinciding with the start of the U.S. school year. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we earned approximately 43% of our annual net revenues in the third quarter and operated at a net loss in the first and fourth quarters. As a result, the results of operations for our entire fiscal year depend largely on third quarter results. Factors that could cause our sales and profitability to suffer due to this seasonality include: · the availability of and customer demand for particular products; · unfavorable economic conditions, which decrease consumer confidence and lower consumer discretionary spending; · the inability to purchase or maintain appropriate inventory levels, which if too low, could cause fulfillment delays of high demand product and, if too high, could leave the Company with excess inventory of unpopular products; and · the inability to hire adequate temporary personnel in the second and third quarters. This seasonality causes our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. We are subject to intense competition which may impede or prevent us from attaining greater market share and could impair the growth of our revenues. Intense competition and increased consolidation, which could result in one company’s dominance in the marketplace, may result in loss of our market share and ultimately reduce our revenues. 13 Table of Contents Our catalogs directly compete with catalogs of companies such as School Specialty, Inc., Lakeshore Learning Materials, The Kaplan Early Learning Company, U.S. Toy Company and Oriental Trading Company. There has been consolidation among our competitors over the last several years. In addition, most of our competitors have websites that compete with our websites. We also compete, to a lesser extent, with mass-market retailers such as Target, Office Depot and Wal-Mart, other packers of school supplies such as Innisbrook, as well as retail and online booksellers and toy stores, such as Barnes & Noble, Amazon.com and Toys “R” Us. These companies have greater brand recognition and greater resources than we do. We could be at a disadvantage in responding to these competitors’ freight policies or merchandising and pricing strategies. Our sales and profitability could suffer if, among other things: · new competitors enter markets in which we are currently operating; · our competitors recreate our operating strategies by pursuing an aggressive manufacturing and marketing program for a competing line of products similar to our Company-developed products; · our competitors implement pricing strategies or freight policies that are more aggressive than ours; · our competitors expand their operations; or · our competitors adopt merchandising strategies similar to ours. Restrictive loan covenants may limit our ability to draw on our credit facility, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. Our business is capital intensive and requires significant levels of inventory leading up to our peak business period, which we fund using our secured credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Bank of America Facility”). Effective October 1, 2005, the Company entered into an amendment extending the Bank of America Facility for $20.0 million from April 16 to October 15 of each year and $10.0 million from October 16 to April 15 of each year, through its maturity date of October 1, 2007. As of December 31, 2005 and March 24, 2006, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Bank of America Facility. Available borrowing capacity as of December 31, 2005 and March 24, 2006 was $10.0 million. We cannot ensure that amounts available under the Bank of America Facility will be sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. Our ability to fund our operations, make scheduled debt payments and planned capital expenditures and to remain in compliance with financial covenants under the Bank of America Facility will depend on our future operating performance and cash flow, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. The Bank of America Facility also includes the availability of up to $5.0 million through a reducing revolving term loan. The Bank of America Facility, which is secured by substantially all of our assets, including receivables, inventory, equipment and intellectual property, requires adherence to certain financial covenants and limitations related to capital expenditures and acquisitions during the term of the Bank of America Facility. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was not in compliance with one of the financial covenants as set forth in the Bank of America Facility. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was in breach of the covenant set forth in Section 10.2 of the loan agreement for the Bank of America Facility. Section 10.2 of the loan agreement sets certain time limits for the delivery of quarterly financial statements and compliance certificates, which the Company was unable to deliver due to the restatement of the Company’s previously issued financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, and the resulting delays in finalizing the financial statements for the quarters ended June 30 and September 30, 2005. The Bank waived the Company’s breach of this covenant through February 24, 2006, and the Company was able to regain compliance within the granted extension. 14 Table of Contents If a shipment of products that we import is interrupted or delayed, our inventory levels and sales could decline. We import some of our product offerings from foreign manufacturers. In 2005, products sourced overseas accounted for approximately 28% of the Company’s sales. These foreign manufacturers are located primarily in China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong, and, to a lesser extent, in a few European countries. We are subject to the following risks inherent in relying on foreign manufacturers: · the inability to return products which could result in excess inventory; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates which could potentially result in a weaker U.S. dollar in overseas markets, increasing the cost of inventory purchased; · transportation delays and trade restrictive actions by foreign governments which could result in delays in shipping products to our customers; · the laws and policies of the United States affecting importation of goods, including duties, quotas and taxes; · trade infringement claims; · increased risk of exposure from product liability claims due to uncollectibility from uninsured foreign manufacturers; and · delays or cancellations in the manufacture or shipment of products caused by the continued threat of international terrorism, and increased security instituted in response thereto. Interruptions or delays in our imports could cause shortages in product inventory and a decline in our sales unless we were able to secure alternative supply arrangements. Even if we could locate alternative sources, these alternative products may be of lesser quality or more expensive. Our sales could also suffer if our suppliers experience similar problems with foreign manufacturers. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which could impair brand and reputation. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. We regard our intellectual property as important to our marketing strategy. To protect our proprietary rights, we generally rely on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties and license agreements with consultants and suppliers. However, a third party could, without authorization, copy or otherwise misappropriate information from us. Furthermore, certain of our trademarks are descriptive marks that have not been and likely will not be registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and third parties may use trademarks similar to ours, potentially diminishing our brand name and reputation. Employees, consultants and others who participate in development activities could breach their confidentiality agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. If we fail or are unable to protect our proprietary rights, it could materially decrease our value and our brand and reputation could be impaired. See “Item 1. Business—Intellectual Property.” The cost of materials used to manufacture our products is subject to volatility, which could reduce our profitability. The unavailability of raw materials or a substantial increase in their prices could reduce our profitability and have a negative impact on our ability to produce proprietary products. We currently sell certain Company-manufactured products, including non-toxic tempera paints, finger paints, glues and other water-based art mediums. We may, from time to time, experience difficulty in obtaining adequate raw material requirements at competitive prices, and experience shortages of raw materials used in our manufacturing process, which could reduce our profitability. In addition, the rising cost of petroleum impacts not only our inbound freight costs, but also increases our product development costs as we use various plastics in manufacturing our products. If these costs continue to rise, our manufacturing costs will continue to rise and our profitability could be reduced. 15 Table of Contents Certain of our affiliates have significant influence over us, which could limit our other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate decisions. As of March 24, 2006, our Chief Executive Officer and two of our other stockholders owned, as of record and in the aggregate, approximately 45% of our common stock on a fully-diluted basis. As a result, these stockholders, if they were to act together, would be able significantly to influence all matters requiring approval of a majority of our stockholders, including any merger, sale of assets and other significant corporate transactions. This control could: · delay or prevent a change of control of the Company; · deprive our other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as a part of a sale of the Company or its assets; and · negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 