ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described below. If any of these events occur, our business could be harmed and the trading price of our securities could decline. The following discussion of risks relating to our business should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business, prospects and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. For additional information regarding forward-looking statements, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Safe Harbor Statement.” Our current and future lump-sum or fixed-price contracts and other shared risk contracts may result in significant losses if costs are greater than anticipated. Some of our contracts are lump-sum contracts and other shared-risk contracts that are inherently risky because we agree to the selling price of the project at the time we enter into the contract. The selling price is based on estimates of the ultimate cost of the contract and we assume substantially all of the risks associated with completing the project, as well as the post-completion warranty obligations. We assume the project’s technical risk and associated warranty obligations, meaning that we must tailor products and systems to satisfy the technical requirements of a project even though, at the time the project is awarded, we may not have previously produced such a product or system. We also assume the risks related to revenue, cost and gross profit realized on such contracts that can vary, sometimes substantially, from the original projections due to changes in a variety of other factors, including but not limited to: • engineering design changes; • unanticipated technical problems with the equipment being supplied or developed by us, which may require that we spend our own money to remedy the problem; • changes in the costs of components, materials or labor; • difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals; • changes in local laws and regulations; • changes in local labor conditions; • project modifications creating unanticipated costs; • delays caused by local weather conditions; and • our suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform. These risks may be exacerbated by the length of time between signing a contract and completing the project because most projects are long-term. In addition, we sometimes bear the risk of delays caused by unexpected conditions or events. Long-term, fixed-price projects often make us subject to penalties if portions of the project are not completed in accordance with agreed-upon time limits. Therefore, significant losses can result from performing large, long-term projects on a lump-sum basis. These losses may be material, including in some cases up to or slightly exceeding the full contract value in certain events of non-performance, and could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may increase the size and number of lump-sum turnkey contracts, sometimes in countries where we have limited previous experience. We may bid for and enter into such contracts through partnerships or joint ventures with third-parties. This would increase our ability to bid for the contracts. Entering into these partnerships or joint ventures will expose us to credit and performance risks of those third-party partners, which could have a negative impact on our business and our results of operations if these parties fail to perform under the arrangements. 7 Table of Contents Because we recognize operating revenues and costs of operating revenues on a percentage-of-completion basis, revisions to revenues and estimated costs could result in changes to previously recorded revenues, costs and profits. For further information on our revenue recognition methodology, refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Application of Critical Accounting Estimates — Revenue Recognition,” and Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies — Revenue Recognition on Long-Term Contracts,” to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on Form 10-K. Failure by us to successfully defend against claims made against us by project owners or by our project subcontractors, or failure by us to recover adequately on claims made against project owners, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In the ordinary course of business, claims involving project owners and subcontractors are brought against us and by us in connection with our project contracts. Claims brought against us include back charges for alleged defective or incomplete work, breaches of warranty and/or late completion of the project work, and claims for canceled projects. The claims and back charges can involve actual damages, as well as contractually agreed upon liquidated sums. If we were found to be liable on any of the project claims against us, we would have to incur a write-down or charge against earnings to the extent a reserve had not been established for the matter in our accounts. Claims brought by us against project owners include claims for additional costs incurred in excess of current contract provisions arising out of project delays and changes in the initial scope of work. Claims between us and our subcontractors and vendors include claims like any of those described above. These project claims, if not resolved through negotiation, are often subject to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration proceedings. Charges and write-downs associated with claims brought against us and by us could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We require cash repatriations from our non-U.S. subsidiaries to meet our domestic cash needs related to our U.S. pension plans, asbestos-related liabilities and corporate overhead expenses. Our ability to repatriate funds from our non-U.S. subsidiaries is limited by a number of factors. As of December 29, 2006, we had cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash of $630,000, of which $509,100 was held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Our fiscal year 2007 forecast assumes total cash repatriation from our non-U.S. subsidiaries of approximately $90,000 from royalties, management fees, intercompany loans, debt service on intercompany loans and/or dividends. There can be no assurance that the forecasted foreign cash repatriation will occur as our non-U.S. subsidiaries need to keep certain amounts available for working capital purposes, to pay known liabilities, to comply with covenants and for other general corporate purposes. The repatriation of funds may also subject those funds to taxation. Our international operations involve risks that may limit or disrupt operations, limit repatriation of cash, increase foreign taxation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We have substantial international operations that are conducted through foreign and domestic subsidiaries, as well as through agreements with foreign joint venture partners. Our international operations accounted for approximately 75% of our operating revenues and substantially all of our operating cash flow in fiscal year 2006. We have international operations in Europe, Asia, Australia, Africa and South America. Additionally, we purchase materials and equipment on a worldwide basis. Our foreign operations are subject to risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, including: • uncertain political, legal and economic environments; • potential incompatibility with foreign joint venture partners; • foreign currency controls and fluctuations; • energy prices and availability; 8 Table of Contents • terrorist attacks; • the imposition of additional governmental controls and regulations; • war and civil disturbances; and • labor problems. Because of these risks, our international operations and our execution of projects may be limited, or disrupted; we may lose contract rights; our foreign taxation may be increased; or we may be limited in repatriating earnings. In addition, in some cases, applicable law and joint venture or other agreements may provide that each joint venture partner is jointly and severally liable for all liabilities of the venture. These potential events and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Certain of our various debt agreements impose financial covenants, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking certain corporate actions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our senior credit agreement imposes financial covenants on us. These covenants limit our ability to incur indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments and sell assets. Failure to comply with these covenants may allow lenders to elect to accelerate the repayment dates of certain of our existing or future outstanding debt or other obligations. We may not be able to repay such obligations if accelerated. Our failure to repay such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We face limitations on our ability to obtain new letters of credit and bank guarantees on the same terms as we have historically. If we were unable to obtain letters of credit and bank guarantees on reasonable terms, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow would be materially adversely affected. It is customary in the industries in which we operate to provide letters of credit and bank guarantees in favor of clients to secure obligations under contracts. We may not be able to continue obtaining new letters of credit and bank guarantees in sufficient quantities to match our business requirements. If our financial condition deteriorates, we may also be required to provide cash collateral or other security to maintain existing letters of credit and bank guarantees. If this occurs, our ability to perform under existing contracts may be adversely affected and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. We may have high working capital requirements and we may have difficulty obtaining additional financing, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In some cases, we require significant amounts of working capital to finance the purchase of materials and performance of engineering, construction and other work on projects before we receive payment from our customers. In some cases, we are contractually obligated to our customers to fund working capital on our projects. Increases in working capital requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Projects included in our backlog may be delayed or cancelled, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The dollar amount of backlog does not necessarily indicate future earnings related to the performance of that work. Backlog refers to expected future revenues under signed contracts and legally binding letters of intent that we have determined are likely to be performed. Backlog projects represent only business that is considered firm, although cancellations or scope adjustments may occur. Because of changes in project scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be performed. In addition, even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may default and fail to pay amounts owed 9 Table of Contents to us. Material delays, cancellations or payment defaults could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The number and cost of our current and future asbestos claims in the United States could be substantially higher than we have estimated and the timing of payment of claims could be sooner than we have estimated, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Some of our subsidiaries are named as defendants in numerous lawsuits and out-of-court administrative claims pending in the United States in which the plaintiffs claim damages for alleged bodily injury or death arising from exposure to asbestos in connection with work performed, or heat exchange devices assembled, installed and/or sold, by our subsidiaries. We expect these subsidiaries to be named as defendants in similar suits and that claims will be brought in the future. For purposes of our financial statements, we have estimated the indemnity and defense costs to be incurred in resolving pending and forecasted domestic claims through year-end 2021. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the actual number of future claims brought against us and the cost of resolving these claims could be substantially higher than our estimates. Some of the factors that may result in the costs of these claims being higher than our current estimates include: • the rate at which new claims are filed; • the number of new claimants; • changes in the mix of diseases alleged to be suffered by the claimants, such as type of cancer, asbestosis or other illness; • increases in legal fees or other defense costs associated with these claims; • increases in indemnity payments; • decreases in the proportion of claims dismissed with zero indemnity payments; • indemnity payments being required to be made sooner than expected; • bankruptcies of other asbestos defendants, causing a reduction in the number of available solvent defendants and thereby increasing the number of claims and the size of demands against our subsidiaries; • adverse jury verdicts requiring us to pay damages in amounts greater than we expect to pay in settlements; • changes in legislative or judicial standards that make successful defense of claims against our subsidiaries more difficult; or • enactment of legislation requiring us to contribute amounts to a national settlement trust in excess of our expected net liability, after insurance, in the tort system. The total liability recorded on our balance sheet is based on estimated indemnity and defense costs expected to be incurred through year-end 2021. We believe that it is likely that there will be new claims filed after 2021, but in light of uncertainties inherent in long-term forecasts, we do not believe that we can reasonably estimate the indemnity and defense costs that might be incurred after 2021. Our forecast contemplates that the number of new claims requiring indemnity will decline from year to year. If future claims fail to decline as we expect, our aggregate liability for asbestos claims will be higher than estimated. Since year-end 2004, we have worked with Analysis Research Planning Corporation (“ARPC”), nationally recognized consultants in projecting asbestos liabilities, to estimate the amount of asbestos-related indemnity and defense costs for the following 15-year period. ARPC reviews our asbestos indemnity payments, defense costs and claims activity during the previous year and compares them to our 15-year forecast prepared at the previous year-end. Based on its review, ARPC may recommend that the assumptions used to estimate our future asbestos liability over the following 15-year period be updated, as appropriate. 10 Table of Contents Our forecast of the number of future claims is based, in part, on a regression model, which employs the statistical analysis of our historical claims data to generate a trend line for future claims and, in part, on an analysis of future disease incidence. Although we believe this forecast method is reasonable, other forecast methods that attempt to estimate the population of living persons who could claim they were exposed to asbestos at worksites where our subsidiaries performed work or sold equipment could also be used and might project higher numbers of future claims than our forecast. The actual number of future claims, the mix of disease types and the amounts of indemnity and defense costs may exceed our current estimates. We update at least annually our forecasts to take into consideration recent claims experience and other developments, such as legislation, that may affect our estimates of future asbestos-related costs. The announcement of increases to asbestos liabilities as a result of revised forecasts, adverse jury verdicts or other negative developments involving asbestos litigation or insurance recoveries may cause the value or trading prices of our securities to decrease significantly. These negative developments could also negatively impact our liquidity, cause us to default under covenants in our indebtedness, cause our credit ratings to be downgraded, restrict our access to capital markets or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The adequacy and timing of insurance recoveries of our asbestos-related costs in the United States is uncertain. The failure to obtain insurance recoveries could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We believe that a significant portion of our subsidiaries’ liability and defense costs for asbestos claims will be covered by insurance. Since year-end 2005, we have worked with Peterson Risk Consulting, nationally recognized experts in the estimation of insurance recoveries, to review our estimate of the value of the settled insurance asset and assist in the estimation of our unsettled asbestos insurance asset. Based on insurance policy data, historical claims data, future liability estimate, and allocation methodology assumptions we provided them, Peterson Risk Consulting provided an analysis of the unsettled insurance asset as of year-end 2006. We utilized that analysis to determine our estimate of the value of the unsettled insurance asset. The asset recorded on our consolidated balance sheet represents our best estimate of actual and probable insurance recoveries relating to our domestic liability for pending and estimated future asbestos claims through year-end 2021. The asset includes an estimate of recoveries from unsettled insurers in the insurance litigation discussed below, based upon assumptions relating to cost allocation, the application of New Jersey law to certain insurance coverage issues, and other factors as well as an estimate of the amount of recoveries under existing settlements with other insurers. On February 13, 2001, litigation was commenced against certain of our subsidiaries by certain of our insurers seeking to recover from other insurers amounts previously paid by them and to adjudicate their rights and responsibilities under our subsidiaries’ insurance policies. As of December 29, 2006, we estimated the value of our asbestos insurance asset contested by our subsidiaries’ insurers in this litigation as $32,700. While this litigation is pending, we have had to cover a substantial portion of our settlement payments and defense costs out of our cash flow. Certain of our subsidiaries have entered into settlement agreements calling for certain insurers to make lump-sum payments, as well as payments over time, for use by our subsidiaries to fund asbestos-related indemnity and defense costs and, in certain cases, for reimbursement for portions of out-of-pocket costs that we previously have incurred. We entered into several additional settlements in 2006 and we intend to continue to attempt to negotiate additional settlements where achievable on a reasonable basis in order to minimize the amount of future costs that we would be required to fund out of the cash flow generated from our operations. Unless we settle the remaining unsettled insurance asset, at amounts significantly in excess of our current estimates, it is likely that the amount of our insurance settlements will not cover all future asbestos-related costs and we will continue to fund a portion of such future costs, which will reduce our cash flow and our working capital. Additionally, certain of the settlements with insurance companies during the past several years were for fixed dollar amounts that do not change as the liability changes. Accordingly, increases in the asbestos liability will not result in an equal increase in the insurance asset. 11 Table of Contents An adverse outcome in the pending insurance litigation described above could limit our remaining insurance recoveries. However, a favorable outcome in all or part of the litigation could increase remaining insurance recoveries above our current estimate. Even if the coverage litigation is resolved in a manner favorable to us, our insurance recoveries (both from the litigation and from settlements) may be limited by insolvencies among our insurers. We have not assumed recovery in the estimate of our asbestos insurance asset from any of our currently insolvent insurers. Other insurers may become insolvent in the future and our insurers also may fail to reimburse amounts owed to us on a timely basis. If we fail to realize expected insurance recoveries, or experience delays in receiving material amounts from our insurers, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. National asbestos trust fund legislation could require us to pay amounts in excess of current estimates of our net asbestos liability, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and long-term cash flow. Asbestos trust fund legislation was proposed in the U.S. Senate in the last Congressional session. Should the proposed legislation be reintroduced in the current U.S. Congress and become law, our forecasted payment obligations would change, and we would not receive any payments for future costs under our insurance settlement agreements that could be used by us for contributions to the trust fund. Under the most recent form of the legislation considered by the Senate in 2006, our annual contributions to a national trust fund over 30 years in lieu of any other liability for asbestos claims would be limited so that we would contribute no more than the lesser of 5% of our annual adjusted cash flow (as defined in the legislation), subject to certain aggregate caps and minimums, or $19,250. The number of asbestos-related claims received by our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom has recently increased. To date, these claims have been covered by insurance policies and proceeds from the policies have been paid directly to the plaintiffs. The timing and amount of asbestos claims that may be made in the future, the financial solvency of the insurers, and the amount that may be paid to resolve the claims, are uncertain. The insurance carriers’ failure to make payments due under the policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Some of our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom have received claims alleging personal injury arising from exposure to asbestos in connection with work performed, or heat exchange devices assembled, installed and/or sold, by our subsidiaries. We expect these subsidiaries to be named as defendants in additional suits and claims brought in the future. To date, insurance policies have provided coverage for substantially all of the costs incurred in connection with resolving asbestos claims in the United Kingdom. In our consolidated balance sheet, we have recorded U.K. asbestos-related insurance recoveries equal to the U.K. asbestos-related liabilities, which are comprised of an estimated liability relating to open (outstanding) claims and an estimated liability relating to future unasserted claims through year-end 2021. Our ability to continue to recover under these insurance policies is dependent upon, among other things, the timing and amount of asbestos claims that may be made in the future, the financial solvency of our insurers, and the amount that may be paid to resolve the claims. These factors could significantly limit our insurance recoveries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because our operations are concentrated in four particular industries, we may be adversely impacted by economic or other developments in these industries. We derive a significant amount of revenues from services provided to clients that are concentrated in four industries: oil and gas, oil refining, chemical/petrochemical and power. Unfavorable economic or other developments in one or more of these industries could adversely affect our clients and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 12 Table of Contents We may lose business to competitors. We are engaged in highly competitive businesses in which customer contracts are often awarded through bidding processes based on price and the acceptance of certain risks. We compete with other general and specialty contractors, both foreign and domestic, including large international contractors and small local contractors. The strong competition in our markets requires maintaining skilled personnel, investing in technology, and also puts pressure on profit margins. Because of this, we could be prevented from obtaining contracts for which we have bid due to price, greater perceived financial strength and resources of our competitors, and/or technology. A failure by us to attract and retain qualified personnel, joint venture partners, advisors and subcontractors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our ability to attract and retain qualified engineers and other professional personnel, as well as joint venture partners, advisors and subcontractors, will be an important factor in determining our future success. The market for these professionals, joint venture partners, advisors and subcontractors is competitive, and we may not be successful in efforts to attract and retain these professionals, joint venture partners, advisors and subcontractors. Failure to attract or retain these workers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may have to incur significant costs and penalties that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our operations are subject to U.S., European and other laws and regulations governing the generation, management, and use of regulated materials, the discharge of materials into the environment, the remediation of environmental contamination, or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Both our Global E&C Group and Global Power Group make use of and produce as wastes or byproducts substances that are considered to be hazardous under these environmental laws and regulations. We may be subject to liabilities for environmental contamination as an owner or operator of a facility or as a generator of hazardous substances without regard to negligence or fault, and we are subject to additional liabilities if we do not comply with applicable laws regulating such hazardous substances, and, in either case, such liabilities can be substantial. These laws and regulations could expose us to liability arising out of the conduct of current and past operations or conditions, including those associated with formerly owned or operated properties caused by us or others, or for acts by us or others which were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. In some cases, we have assumed contractual indemnification obligations for environmental liabilities associated with some formerly owned properties. Additionally, we may be subject to claims alleging personal injury, property damage or natural resource damages as a result of alleged exposure to or contamination by hazardous substances. The ongoing costs of complying with existing environmental laws and regulations can be substantial. Changes in the environmental laws and regulations, remediation obligations, enforcement actions or claims for damages to persons, property, natural resources or the environment could result in material costs and liabilities. We rely on our information systems in our operations. Failure to protect these systems against security breaches could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, if these systems fail or become unavailable for any significant period of time, our business could be harmed. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on computer hardware and software systems. Information systems are vulnerable to security breaches by computer hackers and cyber terrorists. We rely on industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain confidential and proprietary information maintained on our information systems. However, these measures and technology may not always be adequate to properly prevent security breaches. 13 Table of Contents In addition, the unavailability of the information systems or the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason could disrupt our business and could result in decreased performance and increased overhead costs, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. Any significant interruption or failure of our information systems or any significant breach of security could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably if our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our proprietary products. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights to the technologies and know-how used in our proprietary products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of trade secret, unfair competition and similar laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot provide assurance that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We also hold licenses from third-parties that are necessary to utilize certain technologies used in the design and manufacturing of some of our products. The loss of such licenses would prevent us from manufacturing and selling these products, which could harm our business. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions provide for: • The board of directors to be divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms. Directors can be removed from office only for cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the issued shares generally entitled to vote. The board of directors does not have the power to remove directors. Vacancies on the board of directors may only be filled by the remaining directors. Each of these provisions can delay a shareholder from obtaining majority representation on the board of directors. • Any amendment to the bye-law limiting the removal of directors to be approved by the board of directors and the affirmative vote of the holders of three-quarters of the issued shares entitled to vote at general meetings. • The board of directors to consist of not less than three nor more than 20 persons, the exact number to be set from time to time by a majority of the whole board of directors. Accordingly, the board of directors, and not the shareholders, has the authority to determine the number of directors and could delay any shareholder from obtaining majority representation on the board of directors by enlarging the board of directors and filling the new vacancies with its own nominees until a general meeting at which directors are to be appointed. • Restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated. A shareholder notice to nominate an individual for election as a director must be received no less than 120 calendar days prior to the anniversary of the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the preceding year’s annual meeting. • Restrictions on the time period in which shareholder proposals may be submitted. To be timely for inclusion in our proxy statement, a shareholder’s notice for a shareholder proposal must be received not less than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the preceding year’s annual general meeting. To be timely for consideration at the annual meeting of shareholders, a shareholder’s notice must be received no less than 45 days prior to the anniversary of the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the preceding year’s annual meeting. 14 Table of Contents • The board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of preference shares and to issue preference shares without shareholder approval. The board of directors could authorize the issuance of preference shares with terms and conditions that could discourage a takeover or other transaction that holders of some or a majority of the common shares might believe to be in their best interests or in which holders might receive a premium for their shares over the then market price of the shares. • A general prohibition on “business combinations” between Foster Wheeler Ltd. and an “interested member.” Specifically, “business combinations” between an interested member and Foster Wheeler Ltd. are prohibited for a period of five years after the time the interested member acquires 20% or more of our outstanding voting shares, unless the business combination or the transaction resulting in the person becoming an interested member is approved by the board of directors prior to the date the interested member acquires 20% or more of the outstanding voting shares. “Business combinations” is defined broadly to include amalgamations or consolidations with Foster Wheeler Ltd. or our subsidiaries, sales or other dispositions of assets having an aggregate value of 10% or more of the aggregate market value of the consolidated assets, aggregate market value of all outstanding shares, consolidated earning power or consolidated net income of Foster Wheeler Ltd., adoption of a plan or proposal for liquidation and most transactions that would increase the interested member’s proportionate share ownership in Foster Wheeler Ltd. “Interested member” is defined as a person who, together with any affiliates and/or associates of that person, beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the issued voting shares of Foster Wheeler Ltd. • Any matter submitted to the shareholders at a meeting called on the requisition of shareholders holding not less than one-tenth of our paid-up voting shares to be approved by the affirmative vote of all of the shares eligible to vote at such meeting. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company. As a result, the rights of our shareholders will be governed by Bermuda law and by our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. It may be difficult for investors to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or our directors based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. Uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 