Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this annual report, including the discussions set forth in "Item 4. Information on the Company" and "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects" as well as our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. Risks Related to Our Business Our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed by fluctuating market conditions in the telecommunications industry, and generally unfavorable economic conditions worldwide. The results of our operations have been affected by the cyclical downturns and fluctuating conditions experienced by the global telecommunications market in the past. With the sale of our Network Products group, the telecommunications industry has become our predominant market and the results of our operations may continue to be negatively affected by such downturns and fluctuations in the telecommunications market. Any protection from such conditions in the telecommunications market from which the Group has historically benefited due to its industry diversification will no longer be available. In addition, generally weak global economic conditions have resulted in reduced purchasing and capital spending and a resultant decline in demand for our products and services in the past and if global economic growth continues to be hampered by weak industrial production cycles, reductions in consumer confidence and capital spending, and a failure of the global economies to create more balanced opportunities for growth, we may experience a further reduction in demand for our products and services which could further harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We operate in rapidly changing industries and if we do not keep up with these rapid changes, and continue significant investment in research and development, our revenue and operating results will suffer. The telecommunications industry in particular, and also the market into which we sell our Systems group products, are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. In particular, we have seen our legacy products in the Service Assurance division of our Communications group become obsolete at a more rapid rate than anticipated and throughout our businesses our current products and services are likely to become technologically obsolete over a relatively short period of time due to the dynamic and rapidly-advancing technology in the communications sector. Beyond the decrease in demand for our legacy Service Assurance products, technological developments in the telecommunications industry generally may also eliminate whole markets or the need for other products or services. Entire product lines may be threatened by new technologies or market trends which may reduce the value of these product lines. We have increasingly seen telecommunications customers focus on next-generation products and reduce their demand for our legacy products. If we fail to anticipate and keep up with changes in technology and rapidly evolving customer trends and requirements in these industries, to develop new products and services incorporating the latest technology and meeting our customers' needs, and to successfully manage the introduction and transition from legacy to new products and services, our revenue and operating results will suffer. We believe that the continued success of our communications business is dependent on our ability to advance next-generation technologies and services, including working with potential customers to develop products to monitor advanced IP-based networks, to deliver integrated, easy-to-use, end-to-end customer solutions, to increase our presence internationally and to extend our products into web services and applications for the enterprise sector. If we fail to extend our existing capabilities in the next-generation IP technology and services sector, which we believe represents an important growth opportunity, our business, operating results and financial condition will suffer. 11 Continued consolidation of our telecommunications customers could affect sales of our Communications group products and services, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The telecommunications industry has recently experienced significant consolidation. Results of this consolidation trend have included delays in spending by our telecommunications customers on monitoring equipment for current network systems and delays in orders for new products and services. If this trend continues, consolidation of our telecommunications customers could continue to reduce demand for our products and reduce the number of potential customers to whom our telecommunications testing products and services could be sold. The consolidated entities could also purchase products and services from other sources or use the additional leverage they gain from their consolidated purchasing power to demand more favorable terms from us, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Implementing our strategy of focusing on our core telecommunications business, including the divestment of our Network Products group, will affect our operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the strategic focus on our core telecommunications business will be beneficial to our business or financial condition. Prior to its divestment, the Network Products group comprised a significant portion of our overall business and without the Network Products revenues in the future, the remaining Group's results will be more vulnerable to the fluctuations and challenges of the telecommunications market. As a result of the divestment of the Network Products group, historical financial results incorporating the Network Products results may not necessarily reflect our future financial position or results of operations. Failure to expand and diversify our customer base in some of our businesses could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In some of our businesses, we continue to rely on a limited number of customers, which makes our relationships with these customers, as well as the success of those customers' businesses, critical to the success of our business. We can provide you with no assurance that we will be able to retain this client base, that we will be able to increase our sales to our existing customers or that we will be able to attract additional customers in current or new global markets. Our telecommunications business has, historically, had a significant proportion of its sales in the United States and if we fail to expand into additional global markets through an expanded distributor network and international sales and support personnel, and to manage that distribution network effectively, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. If we do not expand our customer base, poor results or decreased market share of any single customer may adversely affect our own results and the loss of one or more of our largest customers, any reduction or delay in sales to these customers, or an inability to successfully develop and maintain relationships with existing and new customers in existing or new global markets could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We face aggressive competition and consolidation trends in certain markets are creating more powerful competitors. If we fail to compete effectively our business, operating results and financial condition will suffer. We face aggressive competition in all of our businesses. Our competitors are numerous, including highly specialized firms as well as in-house capability within customers, and new or more powerful competitors may emerge including through mergers or consolidations of existing competitors. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater financial, marketing, sales and other resources and some of them, particularly in the telecommunications industry, have gained such advantages through consolidation. To stay competitive as an independent company, we will need to introduce successful new products and also may have to adjust prices and margins of some of our products and manage financial returns effectively. Our business, operating results and financial condition will suffer if we do not compete effectively. 12 Our efforts to reduce our cost structure may have adverse long-term effects on our business. We have historically taken, and will continue to take, measures to reduce our cost structure including divestments of non-core businesses, employee reductions and infrastructure reorganization. There are several risks involved in undertaking such cost reduction measures including the risks that the measures may not be successful in meeting our planned cost reduction targets or enhancing profitability. If such efforts are unsuccessful, further measures may be necessary and these further measures, especially if they involve further reductions in workforce, may negatively affect our ability to develop and market products and remain competitive, to service our customers, to hire and retain key personnel and to operate effectively. The loss of key managers and skilled employees may result in inefficiencies in managing and operating our business and our business will suffer if we are not able to hire and retain appropriately qualified personnel. Our success is dependent on attracting and retaining highly qualified and skilled employees. We face intense competition for personnel from other companies, establishments and organizations and the loss of our key employees, or our failure to attract and retain other highly skilled employees, may impair our ability to run and expand our business effectively. In order for us to continue to expand and develop new technologies and products we will need to attract and retain employees with the necessary skills base and ensure that our incentive plans are competitive. If we experience a significant decrease in the market price of our Ordinary shares, our share-based incentive plans may fail to offer competitive incentives within our various industries. If our products are defective, we may be held responsible for liabilities caused by malfunctions of equipment in which our products are used or have to bear some of the cost of recalling this equipment, which would harm our revenue and our reputation. Some of our products are incorporated as component parts by manufacturers into sophisticated equipment and machinery or used in critical applications or are stand-alone solutions. If our products are defective, we may be held responsible for the personal, property and financial damages that result from such defects and the costs associated with recalling the products themselves and products in which our defective products were incorporated. Although we carry product liability insurance customary for companies of our size, such available insurance cover may not be sufficient to cover a catastrophic loss or the costs of recall. In addition, our reputation with customers may be damaged as a result of any such event. Product liabilities or the costs of implementing a recall could hurt our profitability, and the damage to our reputation if one or more of our products proves defective could cause us to lose customers. Many of our businesses and solutions are dependent on partnership with third parties with compatible solutions, third-party manufacturers and the outsourcing of certain portions of our supply chain. If we cannot maintain such partnerships or obtain sufficient products or services from these third-party manufacturers and service providers, we may lose our ability to provide comprehensive solutions to our customers, suffer a loss of customers and experience a reduction in revenue and profit. Many of our businesses contract out certain manufacturing processes and we are increasingly exploring cost-effective opportunities to contract out certain supply chain services. In addition, we are increasingly dependent on other companies' point solutions as part of some of our total systems solutions. If we fail to maintain relationships with our point solutions partners we may be unable to deliver our total system solutions to customers and our business may suffer. In addition, if any of such manufacturers or service providers suffered insolvency or catastrophic loss, the delivery of products or services to our operations might be disrupted or even terminated. Delivery of products and services could also be disrupted if such manufacturers or suppliers fail to maintain satisfactory cost and quality 13 levels. In such instances, it might not be possible to find an alternative manufacturer in an acceptable timeframe on the same or acceptable economic terms as the original manufacturer or service provider. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities and quality of these products or services at an acceptable cost, we may not be able to meet customer demands in the desired timeframe at a commercially acceptable cost, which may result in the loss of customers and a reduction in revenue and profit. Some of our businesses are dependent on key component suppliers. If we cannot obtain sufficient components from these suppliers, we may lose customers and suffer a reduction in revenue and profit. Some of our businesses are dependent on components from suppliers who may experience greater demand for their products than they can meet. In some instances these suppliers have introduced allocation systems to divide their available stock among potential customers. We may be affected because the allocation to our business is too small or because suppliers change the way they apportion their available stock to our disadvantage. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these products at an acceptable cost, we may not be able to meet customer demands in the desired timeframe at a cost acceptable to our customers, which may result in the loss of customers and a reduction in revenue and profits. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights and as a result our business may be harmed. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. While we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, products and services. We could suffer litigation expenses, or could be prevented from selling certain products as a result of third-party infringement claims. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. Indeed, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We may also be subject to significant damages awards or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. We currently often rely on obtaining licenses of intellectual property. We cannot assure you that these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. If third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, our business may be harmed. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. If we fail to maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights, or if competitors design around our technology or develop competing technologies, our competitive position could suffer and our operating results may be harmed. We may not be able to detect infringement or our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Remaining liabilities from discontinued businesses could adversely affect our results. We have concluded a number of divestments of our non-core businesses, including the recent divestment of our Network Products group, but we may, despite divesting of these non-core businesses, have contingent liabilities arising out of those businesses that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the time periods for bringing claims in relation to representations, warranties and indemnities that we have given on recent divestments have not yet expired. 14 Acquisitions undertaken could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business and harm our operating results. Acquisitions have historically been an important part of our business strategy and we have recently completed two additional acquisitions of businesses which have become a part of our Communications group. We will continue to evaluate strategic opportunities from time to time and may acquire businesses, products or technologies in the future. Acquisitions are inherently risky and if, among other risks, we encounter difficulties integrating new personnel, technology and products, fail to maintain standards and controls, and distract management and other resources from on our ongoing businesses, our business may be affected. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Because of our international operations, we are exposed to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, that could adversely affect our business. Our international operations are subject to a variety of potential risks arising out of the global economy, currency fluctuations, exchange control restrictions, regulations on capital investments, the ability to enforce intellectual property rights, language and certain cultural differences in countries where we have operations and the global political outlook. For example, situations such as the threat of terrorism or other hostilities and associated political instability and the effect of heightened security concerns on travel and commerce, may trigger unforeseen economic conditions and cause market demand to fluctuate in an unpredictable manner which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to various governmental regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expense, and if we fail to comply with certain regulations, we may be prohibited from manufacturing and distributing certain products which could have a significant effect on our financial condition, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. Our businesses are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations currently in effect and scheduled to become effective in the near future, including but not limited to environmental, health and safety and import/export regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently, can vary from country to country, and have increased over time. We may incur significant expense in order to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of them. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could result in non-compliant portions of our operations being shut down, product recalls or impositions of civil and criminal penalties and, in some cases, prohibition from distributing our products or performing our services until the products and services are brought into compliance, which could significantly affect our operations. Fluctuations in exchange rates and heavy exposure to the US dollar could materially harm our operating results. Since we conduct operations globally, a substantial portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in various currencies, principally the US dollar and the pound sterling. Because our financial statements are denominated in pounds sterling, fluctuations in exchange rates, especially if the US dollar weakens against the pound, could have a material impact on our reported results. Our pension fund deficit may become a burden on our financial resources. As of February 15, 2006, we contributed £47 million to our UK defined benefit scheme, eliminating the existing deficit as of September 30, 2005. While this contribution eliminated the deficit as of that date, it is possible that a future actuarial valuation will show a deficit. The UK defined benefit scheme is required to have an actuarial valuation every three years and the next valuation, to be 15 released in 2007, will be as at April 1, 2006. Additional contributions required by future actuarial valuations, may have an adverse effect on the financial condition of our business. Changes in UK legislation will also affect the current statutory minimum funding requirements and this may lead to requirements to make additional contributions to our UK defined benefit scheme. We may identify issues with our controls over financial reporting when evaluating the same for compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We will be required to comply with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2006. Section 404 requires that we evaluate and report on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent auditors will have to report on management's evaluation of those controls. In the course of such review and evaluation, we may identify deficiencies in our systems of internal controls over financial reporting that may require remediation. We can give no assurances that any such deficiencies identified may not be considered material weaknesses that may have an adverse effect on the financial condition of our business or our ability to raise capital or other forms of finance in the future. A significant portion of our telecommunications operations are located in California where they may be subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural disasters. A significant portion of our telecommunications operations are located in California which has experienced natural disasters, including earthquakes, in the past. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could disrupt our ability to conduct our telecommunications business and could have a material adverse impact on the Group's business, operating results and financial condition. Events described by our forward-looking statements may not occur. This annual report includes forward-looking statements concerning our business, operations and financial performance and condition. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions about us, including, among other things, those discussed above as well as under "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects." You can identify these statements by words such as "anticipate", "assume", "believe", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "may", "plan", "positioned", "should", "will", "would" and other similar expressions which are predictions of or indicate future trends and future events. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this annual report might not occur. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Given these considerations, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The price of our Ordinary shares and ADSs may be volatile and may decrease significantly below your purchase price. The market price of our Ordinary shares is significantly affected by market forces. The market prices of securities of technology companies on the London Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange and other exchanges have fluctuated significantly in the last three years. The prices for securities of companies involved in telecommunications and other technologies, have been particularly volatile. A significant portion of our activities is based on telecommunications and thus the market price of our Ordinary shares and ADSs is likely to remain highly volatile. 16 In addition to general factors, the following specific factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our Ordinary shares and ADSs: •speculation on the risks associated with the telecommunications industry; •fluctuations in our operating results and speculation on the robustness of our financial condition; •announcements regarding awards of major contracts; •announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; •speculation regarding acquisitions and divestments; and •any share buy-back conducted by the Company. As a result, you may only be able to resell our Ordinary shares or ADSs at a price significantly below your purchase price. See "Item 9. The Offer and Listing" for historical pricing data on our shares. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar may affect the price at which our ADSs trade on United States securities markets. For any particular price in pounds sterling at which our shares are trading on the London Stock Exchange, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar may affect the price in US dollars at which our ADSs trade on the New York Stock Exchange. For example, a fall in the value of the pound sterling against the US dollar is likely to reduce the price of our ADSs in the United States market. The availability of sufficient purchasers and sellers for our shares, whether in the form of Ordinary shares or ADSs, cannot be guaranteed and therefore you may not be able to purchase or sell our shares or ADSs at any particular time. The volume of our stock traded on the London Stock Exchange can vary from day to day and is affected by events and circumstances out of our control. This also applies to the ADSs traded on the New York Stock Exchange. You may not be able to purchase or sell our Ordinary shares or ADSs at any particular time because of the lack of sufficient purchasers or sellers. Your ability to bring an action and enforce judgments against us may be limited under English law. We are a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales. The rights of holders of Ordinary shares and, therefore, many of the rights of ADS holders, are governed by English law and by our Memorandum and Articles of Association. These rights differ from the rights of shareholders in typical US corporations. In particular, English law significantly limits the circumstances under which shareholders of an English company may bring actions on such company's behalf. Under English law generally, only we can bring a claim in proceedings in respect of wrongful acts committed against us. In addition, it may be difficult for you to prevail in a claim against us under, or to enforce liabilities relying upon, US securities laws. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—Enforcement of Civil Liabilities". 17 