Risk Factors Related to Our Financial Reporting and Corporate Governance If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. Although we had no material weaknesses as of December 28, 2007, we have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the past. We cannot assure that we will avoid a material weakness in the future. If we have another material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, it could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions provide for: • The board of directors to be divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms and the reservation for the board of directors, not the shareholders, of the right to increase the size of the board of directors. In addition, directors may be removed from office only for cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the issued shares generally entitled to vote and vacancies on the board of directors may only be filled by the remaining directors. These provisions of our bye-laws may delay or limit the ability of a shareholder to obtain majority representation on the board of directors. • Any amendment to the bye-law limiting the removal of directors to be approved by the board of directors and the affirmative vote of the holders of three-quarters of the issued shares entitled to vote at general meetings. • Restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated or shareholder proposals may be submitted. A shareholder notice to nominate an individual for election as a director or a shareholder proposal must be received no less than 120 calendar days prior to the anniversary of the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the preceding year’s annual meeting. To be timely for consideration at the annual meeting of shareholders, a shareholder proposal must be received no less than 45 days prior to the anniversary of the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the preceding year’s annual meeting. • The board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of preference shares and to issue preference shares without shareholder approval. • A general prohibition on “business combinations” between Foster Wheeler Ltd. and an “interested member.” Specifically, “business combinations” between an interested member, which is generally defined as a person or group of persons that owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the issued voting shares of Foster Wheeler Ltd., and Foster Wheeler Ltd. are prohibited for a period of five years after the time the interested member acquires 20% or more of our outstanding voting shares, unless the business combination or the transaction resulting in the person becoming an interested member is approved by the board of directors prior to the date the interested member acquires 20% or more of the outstanding voting shares. • Any matter submitted to the shareholders at a meeting called on the requisition of shareholders holding not less than one-tenth of our paid-up voting shares to be approved by the affirmative vote of all of the shares eligible to vote at such meeting. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. 15 Table of Contents We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company. As a result, the rights of our shareholders will be governed by Bermuda law and by our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. It may be difficult for investors to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or our directors based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. Uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 Table of Contents 