Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this report, before deciding whether to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or growth prospects or cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this report and those we may make from time to time. You should consider all of the risk factors described when evaluating our business. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are highly dependent on the success of our lead drug candidate, quizartinib, which is still in clinical development, and we cannot give any assurance that it, or any other drug candidates, will receive regulatory approval, which is necessary before they can be commercialized. Our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and then successfully commercialize our lead drug candidate, quizartinib. Our other drug candidates are in earlier stages of development. Our business depends entirely on the successful development and commercialization of our drug candidates. We have not completed the development of any drug candidates; we currently generate no revenues from sales of any drugs, and we may never be able to develop a marketable drug. Quizartinib will require additional clinical development, evaluation of clinical, preclinical and manufacturing activities, regulatory approval in multiple jurisdictions, substantial investment, access to sufficient commercial manufacturing capacity and significant marketing efforts before we can generate any revenues from product sales. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, has also informed us that an approved companion diagnostic is required in order to obtain approval of quizartinib. Companion diagnostics are subject to regulation as medical devices and must be separately approved for marketing by the FDA. We are not permitted to market or promote quizartinib, or any other drug candidates before we receive regulatory approval from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, and we may never receive such regulatory approvals. We plan to initiate a randomized, comparative Phase 3 clinical trial of quizartinib in patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, in the second quarter of 2014. There is no guarantee that this trial will commence or be completed on time or at all. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize quizartinib or future product candidates, if any, in the United States or internationally, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials, to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities, that such product candidates are safe and effective for their intended uses. The results from preclinical studies and clinical trials can be interpreted in different ways, and the favorable results from previous trials of quizartinib may not be experienced in the Phase 3 clinical trial. Even if we believe the preclinical or clinical data are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. We maintain frequent, ongoing dialog with the FDA and other regulatory bodies regarding our clinical trial design, including the patient selection criteria, dosing plan and statistical analysis plan. There is a risk that the FDA or other regulatory agencies could at any time raise objections. Any such objections could delay the initiation or completion of our Phase 3 clinical trial. Although we believe that our discussions with the FDA support the potential approval of quizartinib for the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory AML who harbor the FLT3-ITD mutation, which we refer to as FLT3-ITD positive, based on positive results from the Phase 3 clinical trial without the need to conduct additional clinical trials, the FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may not grant approval based on data from this trial. Even if the trial is successfully completed, we cannot guarantee that the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities will interpret the results as we do. If the results of the trial are not satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for support of a marketing application, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to conduct additional trials in support of potential approval of quizartinib. We cannot anticipate when or if we will seek regulatory review of quizartinib for any other indications. We have not previously submitted a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the FDA, or similar drug approval filings to 29 Table of Contents comparable foreign authorities, or received marketing approval for any drug candidate, and we cannot be certain that quizartinib will be successful in clinical trials or receive regulatory approval for any indication. If we do not receive regulatory approvals for and successfully commercialize quizartinib on a timely basis or at all, we may not be able to continue our operations. Even if we successfully obtain regulatory approvals to market quizartinib, our revenues will be dependent, in part, on our collaborator’s ability to obtain regulatory approval of the companion diagnostic to be used with quizartinib, our collaborator’s ability to commercialize the test as well as the size of the markets in the territories for which we gain regulatory approval and have commercial rights. If the markets for the treatment of AML are not as significant as we estimate, our business and prospects will be harmed. We plan to seek regulatory approval to commercialize quizartinib both in the United States and in select foreign countries. While the scope of regulatory approval is similar in other countries, in some countries there are additional regulatory risks and we cannot predict success in these jurisdictions. Clinical drug development involves a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. Drug candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. We may experience delays in clinical trials of our drug candidates. We plan to initiate a Phase 3 clinical trial of quizartinib in the second quarter of 2014 in patients with relapsed/refractory AML who harbor the FLT3-ITD mutation. We may encounter delays if we are unable to commence the Phase 3 clinical trial on time or enroll enough patients to complete the Phase 3 clinical trial or other clinical trials of quizartinib. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the number and nature of competing treatments and ongoing clinical trials of competing drugs for the same indication, and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Patients participating in our trials may elect to leave our trials and switch to alternative treatments that are available to them, either commercially or on an expanded access basis, or in other clinical trials. Competing treatments include nucleoside analogs, anthracyclines and hypomethylating agents. Moreover, when one product candidate is evaluated in multiple clinical trials simultaneously, patient enrollment in ongoing trials can be adversely affected by negative results from completed trials. In the Phase 3 clinical trial, we plan to enroll patients with relapsed/refractory AML, who are FLT3-ITD positive, which can be a difficult patient population to recruit. We are currently evaluating quizartinib in other indications in AML and plan, in the future, to initiate additional clinical trials in AML and other indications. We do not know whether ongoing clinical trials will be completed on schedule or at all, or whether planned clinical trials, including our Phase 3 clinical trial, will begin on time, need to be redesigned, enroll patients on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; • obtaining institutional review board approval at each clinical trial site; • recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial; • developing and validating the companion diagnostic to be used in the trial on a timely basis; 30 Table of Contents • having patients complete a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; • clinical trial sites deviating from trial protocol or dropping out of a trial; • adding new clinical trial sites; or • manufacturing sufficient quantities of drug candidates for use in clinical trials. Patient enrollment, a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials, is affected by many factors including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians’ and patients’ perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating. Furthermore, we rely on CROs and clinical trial sites to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our clinical trials and, while we have agreements governing their committed activities, we have limited influence over their actual performance. We could encounter delays if physicians encounter unresolved ethical issues associated with enrolling patients in clinical trials of our drug candidates in lieu of prescribing existing treatments that have established safety and efficacy profiles. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, our collaborators, the institutional review boards, or IRBs, in the institutions in which such trials are being conducted, the Data Safety Monitoring Board, or DSMB, for such trial, or by the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a drug candidate, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience termination of, or delays in the completion of, any clinical trial of quizartinib or any of our other drug candidates, the commercial prospects of our drug candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these drug candidates will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations significantly. Furthermore, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our drug candidates. The FDA regulatory approval process is lengthy, time consuming and inherently unpredictable, and if we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval for quizartinib or our other drug candidates, our business will be substantially harmed. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA and similar foreign authorities is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of the regulatory authorities. In addition, approval policies, regulations, or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a drug candidate’s clinical development and may vary among jurisdictions. We have not obtained regulatory approval for any drug candidate. Quizartinib and our other drug candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval for many reasons, including the following: • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials; • we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that a drug candidate is safe and effective for its proposed indication; • the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for approval; 31 Table of Contents • we may be unable to demonstrate that a drug candidate’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials; • the data collected from clinical trials of our drug candidates may not be sufficient to the satisfaction of FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities to support the submission of an NDA or other comparable submission in foreign jurisdictions or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or foreign jurisdictions, on an accelerated basis or otherwise; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may not accept new surrogate endpoints, which are endpoints intended to substitute for clinical endpoints, as a basis for submission of an NDA or other comparable submission in foreign jurisdictions or as a basis for regulatory approval on an accelerated basis or otherwise; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we or our collaborators contract for clinical and commercial supplies; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, as applicable, may fail to approve the premarket approval application, or PMA, for the companion diagnostic we are developing with Genoptix Medical Laboratory, a Novartis company, or Genoptix, or may require approval of other diagnostic tests; and • the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval. This lengthy approval process as well as the unpredictability of future clinical trial results may result in our failure to obtain regulatory approval to market quizartinib, or any of our other drug candidates, which would significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if we were to obtain approval, regulatory authorities may approve any of our drug candidates for fewer or more limited indications than we request, may not approve the price we intend to charge for our products, may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials, or may approve a drug candidate with a label that does not include the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of that drug candidate. Any of the foregoing scenarios could materially harm the commercial prospects for our drug candidates. We will need to raise additional funding, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to: • continue the clinical development of quizartinib in AML, including our clinical trials and our planned Phase 3 clinical trial, as well as the preclinical and clinical development of other drug candidates; • prepare regulatory submissions for regulatory approval of quizartinib; • continue our research and development programs to advance our internal product pipeline; and • launch and commercialize quizartinib and any other drug candidates for which we receive regulatory approval, including building our own commercial capabilities to sell, market, and distribute quizartinib in North America, if approved. Our future funding requirements and sources will depend on many factors, including, the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials, the need for additional patients in any of our clinical trials, and the need for additional clinical trials or data analyses. We will require additional capital for the further development and commercialization of quizartinib and our other drug candidates and may need to raise additional funds sooner if we choose to expand more rapidly than we presently anticipate. 32 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise any debt financing, the terms of such debt could restrict our operating and financial flexibility. If we are unable to raise additional capital or debt financing in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our drug candidates or other research and development initiatives. We also could be required to: • seek collaborators for quizartinib or one or more of our other current or future drug candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; • relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to drug candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; or • license or acquire additional drug candidates. Any of the above events could significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause the price of our common stock to decline. We currently rely on Genoptix to develop the companion diagnostic test for quizartinib and in the future will rely on a third party to obtain marketing approval of such test, which will be required to market quizartinib in the United States. There is no guarantee that the FDA will grant timely approval of this test, if at all, and failure to obtain such timely approval would adversely affect our ability to obtain approval for quizartinib. We intend to initially seek approval of quizartinib in relapsed/refractory FLT3-ITD positive AML patients. The initial proposed drug label being sought for quizartinib specific to this patient population would indicate a potential for enhanced efficacy and/or a greater likelihood of a positive response in patients that carry the FLT3-ITD positive genotype. Accordingly, the Phase 3 clinical trial uses a diagnostic test to select patients that are FLT3-ITD positive. In the United States, the FDA requires that the diagnostic test used to select patients in a pivotal trial be approved in parallel with the drug candidate as a companion diagnostic. A companion diagnostic is an in vitro diagnostic device that provides information that is essential for the safe and effective use of a corresponding therapeutic product. We believe a companion diagnostic to test for the FLT3-ITD positive genotype will be required for the approval of quizartinib. Companion diagnostics for any other genetic testing used to identify a target population for quizartinib that are determined to be necessary for its safety and efficacy will also be required. Companion diagnostics are subject to regulation as medical devices by the FDA and may be subject to regulation by comparable regulatory authorities in various foreign countries. The process of complying with the requirements of the FDA and comparable foreign agencies to support marketing authorization of a companion diagnostic is costly, time consuming and burdensome. We do not develop companion diagnostics internally and thus we are dependent on the sustained cooperation and effort of third parties in developing and obtaining approval for these companion diagnostics. We have entered into an agreement with Genoptix, pursuant to which Genoptix will be responsible for developing the companion diagnostic and obtaining marketing authorization from the FDA. We believe Genoptix will need to submit a premarket approval application, or PMA, for such test, which we anticipate will happen in parallel with our submission of an NDA for quizartinib in accordance with FDA guidance that a novel therapeutic product and companion diagnostic device should generally be developed and approved contemporaneously to support the therapeutic product’s safe and effective use. We currently do not believe that any clinical trials other than the quizartinib Phase 3 clinical trial will be required to support the PMA for the companion diagnostic. However, the FDA may require Genoptix to perform further tests requiring access to patient samples for the test submission and/or future products. We intend to provide access to patient samples to Genoptix for such purposes and our informed consents with patients allow us to permit a third party to test these samples, as required. We and Genoptix may encounter difficulties in developing and obtaining approval for the companion diagnostic, including issues relating to the selectivity/specificity, analytical validation, reproducibility, or clinical validation of the device. Despite the time and expense expended, regulatory approval of a companion diagnostic 33 Table of Contents is never guaranteed. Any delay or failure by Genoptix to develop or obtain regulatory approval of the companion diagnostic could delay or prevent approval of quizartinib. In addition, while Genoptix has the right under our collaboration agreement to commercialize the companion diagnostic, it is not obligated to do so. Genoptix may elect to not commercialize, or even if it does elect to commercialize the companion diagnostic, Genoptix may decide to discontinue selling or manufacturing the companion diagnostic. We may not be able to enter into arrangements with another diagnostic company to obtain supplies of an alternate diagnostic test for use in connection with the development and commercialization of quizartinib or do so on commercially acceptable terms, which could adversely affect and/or delay the development or commercialization of quizartinib. In addition, Genoptix or any other diagnostic company may encounter production difficulties that could constrain the supply of the companion diagnostic, and both Genoptix and we may have difficulties gaining acceptance of the use of the companion diagnostic in the clinical community. If such companion diagnostic fails to gain market acceptance, it would have an adverse effect on our ability to derive revenues from sales of quizartinib. The commercial launch of quizartinib may be significantly and adversely affected if Genoptix is unable to obtain FDA approval of the companion diagnostic test in parallel with the approval of quizartinib or at all, or if a third party is unable to commercialize the test successfully and in a manner that effectively supports our commercial efforts. Adverse side effects or other safety risks associated with our drug candidates could delay or preclude approval of quizartinib or any of our other current or future drug candidates, cause us to suspend or discontinue clinical trials, limit the commercial profile of an approved label, or result in significant negative consequences following marketing approval, if any. Undesirable side effects caused by our drug candidates could result in the delay, suspension or termination of our clinical trials by us, our collaborators, IRBs, the FDA or other regulatory authorities for a number of reasons. If we elect or are required to delay, suspend or terminate any clinical trial of any drug candidates that we develop, the commercial prospects of such drug candidates will be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these drug candidates will be delayed or eliminated. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations significantly. To date, the clinical development program for quizartinib includes over 480 patients treated in our Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials in relapsed/refractory AML. The adverse events we have observed to date are manageable and the most common all grade treatment-emergent adverse events (reported in ³ 20% of subjects) in our Phase 2 clinical trials included gastrointestinal toxicities, fatigue, anemia, QT prolongation (changes in the patient’s electrocardiogram pattern), and dysgeusia (distortion of the sense of taste). Overall, there were no major differences between safety findings in FLT3-ITD positive and FLT3-ITD negative patients or between the Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. QT prolongation is a common adverse event associated with multiple other kinase inhibitors and may be a class effect. The majority of cases of QT prolongation with quizartinib are asymptomatic and occur within the first month of treatment. Additionally, the majority of patients that experienced QT prolongation did not discontinue quizartinib treatment due to this adverse event. Nonetheless, QT prolongation may be associated with changes in electric conduction in the heart and may cause irregularities of the heart beat which could be potentially serious, life-threatening or fatal and require ECG monitoring and treatment. To date, there has been one case of Grade 4 QT interval prolongation with Torsade de pointes (an abnormal cardiac rhythm) in a patient taking quizartinib with multiple concomitant medications in our Phase 2 clinical trial. Results of our current and anticipated trials could reveal a high and unacceptable severity and prevalence of these or other side effects. In such an event, our trials could be suspended or terminated and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease further development of or deny approval of our drug candidates for any or all targeted indications. In addition, the drug-related side effects could affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete the trial or result in potential product liability claims. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations significantly. Additionally if quizartinib or any of our other drug candidates receive marketing approval, the FDA could require us to adopt a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, to ensure that the benefits outweigh its risks, which in the case of quizartinib may include, among other things, a medication guide outlining the risks of QT 34 Table of Contents prolongation for distribution to patients and a communication plan to health care practitioners. We could also be required to include a black box warning on the label. Furthermore, if we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including: • regulatory authorities may withdraw approvals of such product; • regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label; • we may be required to create a medication guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients; • we may be required to change the way quizartinib is administered or conduct additional clinical trials; • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of quizartinib or the particular drug candidate at issue and could significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain FDA approval of our drug candidates, we will not be able to commercialize them in the United States and our business will be adversely impacted. We need FDA approval prior to marketing our drug candidates in the United States, and in the case of quizartinib, we must also ensure approval of a companion diagnostic. If we fail to obtain FDA approval to market our drug candidates, we will be unable to sell our drug candidates in the United States, which will significantly impair our ability to generate any revenues. This regulatory review and approval process, which includes evaluation of preclinical studies and clinical trials of our drug candidates as well as the evaluation of our manufacturing processes and our third-party contract manufacturers’ facilities, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. To receive approval, we must, among other things, demonstrate with substantial evidence from clinical trials that the drug candidate is both safe and effective for each indication for which approval is sought, and failure can occur in any stage of development. Satisfaction of the approval requirements typically takes several years and the time needed to satisfy them may vary substantially, based on the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product. We cannot predict if or when we might receive regulatory approvals for any of our drug candidates currently under development. Moreover, any approvals that we obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval, or could contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. In such event, our ability to generate revenues from such products would be greatly reduced and our business would be harmed. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may either refuse to consider our application for substantive review or may form the opinion after review of our data that our application is insufficient to allow approval of our drug candidates. If the FDA does not consider or approve our application, it may require that we conduct additional clinical, preclinical or manufacturing validation studies and submit that data before it will reconsider our application. Depending on the extent of these or any other studies, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed by several years, or may require us to expend more resources than we have available. It is also possible that additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be successful or considered sufficient by the FDA to support approval. If any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to abandon one or more of our applications for approval, which might significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we do receive regulatory approval to market a drug candidate, any such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. It is possible that none of our existing drug candidates or any drug candidates we may seek to develop in the future will ever obtain the appropriate 35 Table of Contents regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to commence product sales. Any delay in obtaining, or an inability to obtain, applicable regulatory approvals would prevent us from commercializing our drug candidates, generating revenues and achieving and sustaining profitability. Even if we obtain and maintain approval for quizartinib from the FDA, we may never obtain approval for quizartinib outside of the United States, which would limit our market opportunities and adversely affect our business. Sales of quizartinib outside of the United States, if approved, will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and marketing approval. Even if the FDA grants marketing approval for a product candidate, comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must also approve the manufacturing and marketing of the product candidates in those countries. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve requirements and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the United States, including additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. In many countries outside the United States, a product candidate must be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that country. In some cases, the price that we intend to charge for our products is also subject to approval. We may decide to submit a marketing authorizations application, or MAA to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for approval in the European Union. As with the FDA, obtaining approval of an MAA from the EMA is a similarly lengthy and expensive process and the EMA has its own procedures for approval of product candidates. Even if a product is approved, the FDA or the EMA, as the case may be, may limit the indications for which the product may be marketed, require extensive warnings on the product labeling or require expensive and time-consuming clinical trials or reporting as conditions of approval. Regulatory authorities in countries outside of the United States and the European Union also have requirements for approval of drug candidates with which we must comply prior to marketing in those counties. Obtaining foreign regulatory approvals and compliance with foreign regulatory requirements could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in certain countries. Further, clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries and regulatory approval in one country does not ensure approval in any other country, while a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in others. Also, regulatory approval for any of our product candidates may be withdrawn. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements in international markets and/or receive applicable marketing approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of quizartinib will be harmed, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we receive regulatory approval for any of our drug candidates, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Additionally, our drug candidates, if approved, could be subject to labeling and other restrictions and market withdrawal and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with our products. Any regulatory approvals that we or our strategic partners receive for our drug candidates may also be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-approval commitments, including additional clinical trials and analyses, Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the drug candidate. In addition, if the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority approves any of our drug candidates, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, import, export and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, and current good clinical practices, or cGCPs, for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things: • restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, withdrawal of the product from the market, or voluntary or mandatory product recalls; 36 Table of Contents • fines, warning letters or holds on clinical trials; • refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our strategic partners, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; • product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; and • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we and our collaborators may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our drug candidates and our business could be substantially harmed. We have agreements with third-party CROs to conduct or monitor and manage data for our ongoing preclinical and clinical programs, including our ongoing clinical trials for quizartinib. We expect to engage additional CROs in connection with our planned Phase 3 clinical trial. We rely heavily on these parties for execution of our preclinical and clinical trials, and we control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on our CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and our CROs are required to comply with cGCPs, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for all of our drug candidates in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce these cGCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of these CROs fail to comply with applicable cGCP regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, such regulatory authorities will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with the cGCP regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with drug product produced under cGMP regulations and will require a large number of test subjects. Our or our respective CROs’ failure to comply with these regulations or to recruit a sufficient number of patients may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Moreover, our business may be implicated if any of our CROs violates federal or state fraud and abuse or false claims laws and regulations or healthcare privacy and security laws. Our CROs are not our employees and, except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such CROs, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing preclinical, clinical and nonclinical programs. These CROs may also have relationships with other commercial entities, including our competitors, for whom they may also be conducting clinical studies or other drug development activities, which could harm our competitive position. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to complete development of, obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our drug candidates. As a result, our financial results and the commercial prospects for quizartinib and our other drug candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed. Switching or adding CROs involves substantial cost and requires extensive management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work. As a result, delays occur, which 37 Table of Contents can materially impact our ability to meet our desired clinical development timelines. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter similar challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We rely completely on third parties to manufacture our preclinical and clinical drug supplies and we intend to rely on third parties to produce commercial supplies of any approved drug candidate. The development and commercialization of any of our drug candidates, including quizartinib, could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable if those third parties fail to obtain and maintain regulatory approval of their facilities, fail to provide us with sufficient quantities of drug product or fail to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices. We do not currently have nor do we plan to acquire the infrastructure or capability internally to manufacture our clinical drug supplies for use in the conduct of our clinical trials, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our drug candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. Instead, we rely on contract manufacturers for the production of quizartinib and our other drug candidates. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers to manufacture our drug candidates must be approved by the applicable regulatory authorities, including the FDA, pursuant to inspections that will be conducted after an NDA is submitted to the FDA. We do not control the manufacturing process of quizartinib and are completely dependent on our contract manufacturing partners for compliance with the FDA’s requirements for manufacture of both the active drug substances and finished quizartinib drug product. If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the FDA’s strict regulatory requirements, they will not be able to secure or maintain FDA approval for the manufacturing facilities. In addition, we have no control over the ability of our contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the FDA or any other applicable regulatory authorities does not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our drug candidates or if it withdraws any such approval in the future, or if our suppliers or contract manufacturers decide they no longer want to supply or manufacture our products, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, in which case we might not be able to identify manufacturers for clinical or commercial supply on acceptable terms, or at all, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our drug candidates. We rely on our manufacturers to purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce our drug candidates for our clinical trials. There are a small number of suppliers for certain capital equipment and raw materials that we use to manufacture our drugs. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these raw materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the commercial production of these raw materials. Although we generally do not begin a clinical trial unless we believe we have a sufficient supply of a drug candidate to complete the clinical trial, any significant delay in the supply of a drug candidate or the raw material components thereof for an ongoing clinical trial due to the need to replace a third-party manufacturer could considerably delay completion of our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval of our drug candidates. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these raw materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for our drug candidates, the commercial launch of our drug candidates would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would impair our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our drug candidates. In addition, the manufacture of pharmaceutical products is complex and requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up and validating initial production and absence of contamination. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product, quality assurance testing, operator error, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Furthermore, if contaminants are discovered in our products or in the manufacturing facilities in which our products are made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. We cannot assure you that any stability or other issues relating to 38 Table of Contents the manufacture of any of our products will not occur in the future. Additionally, our manufacturers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes or unstable political environments. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to provide any drug candidates to patients in clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at additional expense or terminate clinical trials completely. In addition, quizartinib has, to date, been dosed as a liquid oral treatment. We have recently developed a solid dosage form (tablet) of quizartinib and successfully completed a Phase 1 clinical trial in healthy volunteers to confirm the relative bioavailability between the liquid and the tablet forms. We anticipate incorporating the tablet in future clinical development, including our planned Phase 3 clinical trial, subject to guidance from the FDA. We may encounter delays in the manufacture of this tablet form, in which case we would need to continue to use the liquid form in future trials. In any event, if approved, our commercial strategy is to have both the tablet form and liquid forms in order to address the needs of multiple patient populations. Any adverse developments affecting our clinical or commercial manufacturing operations for our products may result in shipment delays, inventory shortages, lot failures, product withdrawals or recalls, or other interruptions in the supply of our products. We may also have to take inventory write-offs and incur other charges and expenses for products that fail to meet specifications, undertake costly remediation efforts or seek more costly manufacturing alternatives. Accordingly, failures or difficulties faced at any level of our supply chain could materially adversely affect our business and delay or impede the development and commercialization of quizartinib or any of our other drug candidates and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. We currently do not have the capability to package quizartinib finished drug product for distribution to hospitals and other customers. We have entered into an agreement with a contract manufacturer to supply us with finished product. Prior to commercial launch, we intend to enter into a similar agreement with an alternate fill/finish drug product supplier for quizartinib so that we can ensure proper supply chain management once we are authorized to make commercial sales of quizartinib. Once finalized, we expect that the selected alternate supplier will provide us with finished drug product. If we receive marketing approval from the FDA, we intend to sell drug product finished and packaged by either our current contract manufacturer or this alternate supplier. We have not entered into long-term agreements with our current contract manufacturers or with any alternate fill/finish suppliers. Although we intend to do so prior to commercial launch of quizartinib in order to ensure that we maintain adequate supplies of finished drug product, we may be unable to enter into such an agreement or do so on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse impact upon our business and our ability to commercialize quizartinib. We believe we will have sufficient quantities of manufactured drug substance to support planned development activities. Further, we plan to have our existing contract manufacturers and any alternate suppliers later identified manufacture and package additional bulk drug substance and finished drug product in connection with commercial launch in the event quizartinib is approved for sale by regulatory authorities. If we are unable to do so in a timely manner, the commercial introduction of quizartinib, if approved by the FDA, would be adversely affected. Obtaining Fast Track designation from the FDA for our drug candidate quizartinib does not guarantee faster approval. We received Fast Track designation for our drug candidate quizartinib for the treatment of patients 60 years of age or older with FLT3-ITD positive AML in first relapse or refractory to first line chemotherapy and treatment of patients 18 years or older with FLT3-ITD positive AML in second relapse or refractory to second line salvage therapy. Fast Track designation is a process designed to facilitate the development and expedite the 39 Table of Contents review of new drugs intended to treat serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions and that have the potential to address an unmet medical need for such disease or condition. Fast Track designation applies to the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. Once a Fast Track designation is obtained, the FDA may consider for review on a rolling basis sections of the NDA before the complete application is submitted if the applicant provides and the FDA approves a schedule for the submission of the sections of the NDA and the applicant pays applicable user fees upon submission of the first section of the NDA. However, the time period specified in the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, which governs the time period goals the FDA has committed to reviewing an application, does not begin until the complete application is accepted for filing. Although we received Fast Track designation for quizartinib, the FDA may later decide that quizartinib no longer meets the conditions for qualification. In addition, Fast Track designation may not provide us with a material commercial advantage. We currently have no marketing and sales organization and have no experience in marketing products. If we are unable to establish marketing and sales capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our drug candidates, we may not be able to generate product revenues. We currently do not have a commercial organization for the marketing, sales and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize any products, we must build our marketing, sales, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We contemplate establishing (either internally or through a contract sales force) our own commercial capabilities to market, sell and distribute quizartinib, if approved, in North America and plan to partner with third parties to commercialize quizartinib in other markets. The establishment and development of our own sales force or the establishment of a contract sales force to market any products we may develop will be expensive and time-consuming and could delay any product launch. Moreover, we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop this capability. We will have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain marketing and sales personnel. We also face competition in our search for third parties to assist us with the sales and marketing efforts of our drug candidates. To the extent we rely on third parties to commercialize our approved products, if any, we may have little or no control over the marketing and sales efforts of such third parties and our revenues from product sales may be lower than if we had commercialized these products ourselves. In the event we are unable to develop our own marketing and sales force or collaborate with a third-party marketing and sales organization, we would not be able to commercialize our drug candidates. If we fail to develop and commercialize other drug candidates, we may be unable to grow our business. As a significant part of our growth strategy, we intend to develop and commercialize drug candidates in addition to quizartinib. These other drug candidates will require additional, time-consuming development efforts prior to commercial sale, including preclinical studies, extensive clinical trials and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure that are inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the drug candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and/or effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any such products that are approved will be manufactured or produced economically, successfully commercialized or widely accepted in the marketplace or be more effective than other commercially available alternatives. A significant portion of the research that we are conducting involves new and unproven technologies. Research programs to identify new drug candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. If we are unable to develop our drug candidates, our business and prospects will suffer. We cannot be certain that our drug candidates will produce commercially viable drugs that safely and effectively treat cancer or other diseases. To date, our technology platform has yielded only a small number of drug candidates other than quizartinib. In addition, we have limited preclinical and clinical data with respect to 40 Table of Contents any of these other potential drug candidates. Even if we are successful in completing preclinical and clinical development and receiving regulatory approval for one commercially viable drug for the treatment of one disease, we cannot be certain that we will also be able to develop and receive regulatory approval for other drug candidates for the treatment of other forms of that disease or other diseases. If we fail to develop and commercialize viable drugs, we will not be successful in developing a pipeline of potential drug candidates to follow quizartinib, and our business prospects would be harmed significantly. Our commercial success depends upon attaining significant market acceptance of our drug candidates, if approved, including quizartinib, among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and, in the cancer market, acceptance by the major operators of cancer clinics. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for quizartinib or any other drug candidate that we may develop or acquire in the future, the product may not gain market acceptance among physicians, health care payors, patients and the medical community. Market acceptance of quizartinib or any other drug candidates for which we receive approval depends on a number of factors, including: • the efficacy and safety of such drug candidates as demonstrated in clinical trials; • the clinical indications for which the drug candidate is approved; • acceptance by physicians, major operators of cancer clinics and patients of the drug as a safe and effective treatment; • the potential and perceived advantages of drug candidates over alternative treatments; • the safety of drug candidates seen in a broader patient group, including its use outside the approved indications; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • product labeling or product insert requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities; • the timing of market introduction of our products as well as competitive products; • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments; • the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third party payors and government authorities; • relative convenience and ease of administration; and • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and those of our collaborators. If quizartinib or any other drug candidate is approved but fails to achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, or health care payors, we will not be able to generate significant revenues, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors both in the United States and internationally, including major multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, such as larger research and development staff and experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations and well-established sales forces. Additional mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. Competition may increase further as a result of advances in the commercial applicability of 41 Table of Contents technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these industries. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing on an exclusive basis drug products that are more effective or less costly than quizartinib or any drug candidate that we are currently developing or that we may develop. Currently there are no approved therapies for relapsed/refractory AML beyond traditional chemotherapy. Quizartinib may face competition in the United States from the off-label use of commercially available kinase inhibitors such as Bayer AG’s and Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Nexavar® (sorafenib) and Pfizer Inc.’s Sutent® (sunitinib), two multi-kinase inhibitors that inhibit FLT3 approved for the treatment of certain solid tumors. However, these multi-kinase inhibitors are not currently approved for the treatment of AML. In addition, several other companies have small molecule and biologic drug candidates in development that target the FLT3 pathway and, if approved, could compete with quizartinib, including Novartis AG’s PKC-412 (midostaurin). Pfizer’s Xeljanz® (tofacitinib), a pan-JAK inhibitor, was recently approved in the United States for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and several companies have inhibitors of the JAK family of kinases in clinical development for inflammatory disease. A number of companies have oral small molecule and biologic colony-stimulating factor-1 receptor, or CSF1R, inhibitors in clinical development. Daiichi-Sankyo Company Limited’s, and F. Hoffman-LaRoche Ltd’s Zelboraf® (vemurafenib), a BRAF kinase inhibitor, was approved by the FDA in 2011 for the treatment of metastatic melanoma patients harboring the V600E BRAF mutation, and several other companies have BRAF inhibitors in clinical development. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to leverage our experience in drug discovery and development to: • discover and develop highly selective and potent small molecule drugs that inhibit validated kinase targets and that are superior to other products in the market; • attract qualified scientific, product development and commercial personnel; • obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our medicines and technologies; • obtain required regulatory approvals; and • successfully collaborate with pharmaceutical companies in the discovery, development and commercialization of new medicines. The availability and price of our competitors’ products could limit the demand, and the price we are able to charge, for quizartinib or any of our other drug candidates, if approved. We will not achieve our business plan if the acceptance of quizartinib is inhibited by price competition or the reluctance of physicians to switch from existing drug products to quizartinib, or if physicians switch to other new drug products or choose to reserve quizartinib for use in limited circumstances. The inability to compete with existing or subsequently introduced drug products would have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to accelerate discovery and development of novel compounds or to in-license novel compounds that could make our drug candidates less competitive. In addition, any new product that competes with an approved product must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety in order to overcome price competition and to be commercially successful. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or discovering, developing and commercializing medicines before we do, which would have a material adverse impact on our business. Reimbursement may be limited or unavailable in certain market segments for our drug candidates, which could make it difficult for us to sell our products profitably. We intend to seek approval to market quizartinib in both the United States and in selected foreign jurisdictions. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions for quizartinib or any of our other drug 42 Table of Contents candidates, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions. In some foreign countries, particularly those in the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals and biologics is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug candidate. In addition, market acceptance and sales of our drug candidates will depend significantly on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for any of our drug candidates and may be affected by existing and future health care reform measures. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide to the payor supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. If reimbursement of our future products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the health care system that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In particular, the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 revised the payment methodology for many products under Medicare in the United States. This has resulted in lower rates of reimbursement. In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively, the Healthcare Reform Act, was enacted. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, the increased use of comparative effectiveness research on healthcare products, reimbursement and fraud and abuse changes, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. An expansion in the government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may further lower rates of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. We cannot predict whether legal challenges will result in changes to the Healthcare Reform Act or if other legislative changes will be adopted, or how such changes would affect our business. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payers. There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect: • the demand for any drug candidates for which we may obtain regulatory approval; • our ability to set a price that we believe is fair for our products; 43 Table of Contents • our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; • the level of taxes that we are required to pay; and • the availability of capital. In addition, governments may impose price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We may form strategic alliances in the future, and we may not realize the benefits of such alliances. We may form strategic alliances, create joint ventures or collaborations or enter into licensing arrangements with third parties that we believe will complement or augment our existing business, including with respect to quizartinib and our JAK2 and CSF1R programs. These relationships or those like them may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near- and long-term expenditures, issue securities that dilute our existing stockholders or disrupt our management and business. In addition, we face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners and the negotiation process is time-consuming and complex. Moreover, we may not be successful in our efforts to establish a strategic partnership or other alternative arrangements for quizartinib or our JAK2 and CSF1R programs or any future drug candidates and programs because our research and development pipeline may be insufficient, our drug candidates and programs may be deemed to be at too early of a stage of development for collaborative effort and third parties may not view our drug candidates and programs as having the requisite potential to demonstrate safety and efficacy. If we license products or businesses, we may not be able to realize the benefit of such transactions if we are unable to successfully integrate them with our existing operations and company culture. We cannot be certain that, following a strategic transaction or license, we will achieve the revenues or specific net income that justifies such transaction. Any delays in entering into new strategic partnership agreements related to our drug candidates could also delay the development and commercialization of our drug candidates and reduce their competitiveness even if they reach the market. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. We are highly dependent on our management, scientific and medical personnel, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael A. Martino, our Chief Medical Officer, Athena Countouriotis, M.D., and our Chief Financial Officer, Alan Fuhrman. In order to induce valuable employees to remain at Ambit, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we have provided stock options that vest over time. The value to employees of stock options that vest over time may be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control, and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. Our scientific team has expertise in many different aspects of drug discovery and development. We conduct our operations at our facility in San Diego, California. This region is headquarters to many other biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions. Competition for skilled personnel in our market is very intense and may limit our ability to hire and retain highly qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, scientific and development teams may terminate their employment with us on short notice. Although we have employment agreements with all of our employees, these employment agreements provide for at-will employment, which means that any of our employees could leave our employment at any time, with or without notice. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees and our inability to find suitable replacements could potentially harm our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled junior, mid-level, and senior managers as well as junior, mid-level, and senior scientific and medical personnel. 44 Table of Contents Many of the other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that we compete against for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles and a longer history in the industry than we do. They may also provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high quality candidates than what we can offer. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain high quality personnel, the rate and success at which we can discover, develop and commercialize drug candidates will be limited. We will need to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth. As of December 31, 2013, we employed 53 employees, 49 of whom were full-time. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, and as we transition into operating as a public company, we expect to need additional managerial, operational, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing, financial and other personnel. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including: • identifying, recruiting, integrating, maintaining and motivating additional employees; • managing our internal development efforts effectively, including the clinical and FDA review process for quizartinib and our other drug candidates, while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, licensees, contractors, collaborators and third parties; and • improving our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize quizartinib and other drug candidates will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth, and our management may also have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from day-to-day activities in order to devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. To date, we have used the services of outside vendors to perform tasks including clinical trial management, statistics and analysis, regulatory affairs, formulation development and other drug development functions. Our growth strategy may also entail expanding our group of contractors or consultants to implement these tasks going forward. Because we rely on numerous consultants, effectively outsourcing many key functions of our business, we will need to be able to effectively manage these consultants to ensure that they successfully carry out their contractual obligations and meet expected deadlines. However, if we are unable to effectively manage our outsourced activities or if the quality or accuracy of the services provided by consultants is compromised for any reason, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for quizartinib and our other drug candidates or otherwise advance our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our existing consultants or find other competent outside contractors and consultants on economically reasonable terms, or at all. If we are not able to effectively expand our organization by hiring new employees and expanding our groups of consultants and contractors, we may not be able to successfully implement the tasks necessary to further develop and commercialize our drug candidates and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our current and any future CROs and other contractors and consultants and collaborators are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such material system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our development programs and our business operations. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or future clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. Likewise, we rely on third parties to manufacture our drug candidates and conduct clinical trials, and similar events relating to their computer systems could also have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development and commercialization of our drug candidates could be delayed. 45 Table of Contents Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. We rely on third-party manufacturers to produce our drug candidates. Our ability to obtain clinical supplies of quizartinib or our other drug candidates could be disrupted, if the operations of these suppliers is affected by a man-made or natural disaster or other business interruption. Our corporate headquarters is located in California near major earthquake faults and fire zones. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and fire zones and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our operations and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake, fire or other natural disaster. A variety of risks associated with marketing our drug candidates internationally could materially adversely affect our business. If approved for commercialization in the United States, we also expect to seek approval to market quizartinib outside of the United States. Consequently, we expect that we will be subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries including: • differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; • the potential for so-called parallel importing, which is what happens when a local seller, faced with high or higher local prices, opts to import goods from a foreign market (with low or lower prices) rather than buying them locally; • unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers, price and exchange controls and other regulatory requirements; • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; • compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; • foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country; • difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; • workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; • potential liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or comparable foreign regulations; • challenges enforcing our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not respect and protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States; • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and • business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or maintain profitable operations. 46 Table of Contents Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with FDA regulations, to provide accurate information to the FDA, to comply with manufacturing standards we have established, to comply with federal and state health-care fraud and abuse laws and regulations, to report financial information or data accurately or to disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. We may also be subject to healthcare laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. Although we currently do not have any products on the market, if any of our drug candidates are approved, once we begin commercializing our products, we may be subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the states and foreign governments in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include, without limitation, state and federal anti-kickback, false claims, privacy and security and physician sunshine laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our drug candidates. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of our drug candidates and will face an even greater risk if we commercialize any products. For example, we may be sued if any drug candidate we develop allegedly causes injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability, and a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our drug candidates. Even successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our drug candidates or products that we may develop; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • initiation of investigations by regulators; • costs to defend the related litigation; • a diversion of management’s time and our resources; 47 Table of Contents • substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; • product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions; • loss of revenue; • exhaustion of any available insurance and our capital resources; • the inability to commercialize our drug candidates; and • a decline in our share price. Our inability to obtain and retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products we develop. We currently carry $10.0 million of product liability insurance covering our clinical trials. Although we maintain such insurance, any claim that may be brought against us could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance or that is in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. If we determine that it is prudent to increase our product liability coverage due to the commercial launch of any approved product, we may be unable to obtain such increased coverage on acceptable terms, or at all. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance, and we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical and biological materials. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products and those of our manufacturers and some CROs may produce medical and radioactive waste products. We and our manufacturers are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of medical, radioactive and hazardous materials. Although we believe that our and our manufacturers’ procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we may incur significant additional costs to comply with applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from medical, radioactive or hazardous materials. As a result of any such contamination or injury we may incur liability or local, city, state or federal authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from medical radioactive or hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements We have a limited operating history, have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Our operations began in 2000 and we have only a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. Our operations to date have been limited to conducting product development activities for quizartinib and other drug candidates and performing research and development with respect to our clinical and preclinical programs. In addition, as an early stage company, we have limited experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the pharmaceutical area. Nor have we demonstrated 48 Table of Contents an ability to obtain regulatory approval for or to commercialize a drug candidate. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a history of successfully developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception, including consolidated net losses of $11.3 million, $27.0 million and $37.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $248.2 million. Our prior losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our discovery and development activities. We anticipate that our operating losses will substantially increase over the next several years as we execute our plan to expand our discovery, research, development and commercialization activities, including the clinical development and planned commercialization of our lead drug candidate, quizartinib, and incur the additional costs of operating as a public company. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approval of quizartinib, we may incur significant sales and marketing expenses. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or whether or when we will become profitable, if ever. We have limited sources of revenues and have not generated any revenues to date from product sales. We may never achieve or sustain profitability, which could depress the market price of our common stock, and could cause you to lose all or a part of your investment. Our ability to become profitable depends on our ability to develop and commercialize quizartinib and our other drug candidates. To date, we have no products approved for commercial sale and have not generated any revenues from sales of any drug candidate, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate revenues in the future. Substantially all of our revenues to date have come from research service fees, license or collaboration agreements and our screening business, which we sold in October 2010. We do not anticipate generating revenues, if any, from sales of quizartinib for at least the next several years and we will never generate revenues from quizartinib if we and Genoptix do not obtain regulatory approval for quizartinib and its companion diagnostic, respectively. Our ability to generate future revenues depends heavily on our and our collaborators’ success in: • developing and securing U.S. and/or foreign regulatory approvals for quizartinib and its companion diagnostic; • manufacturing commercial quantities of quizartinib at acceptable cost; • achieving broad market acceptance of quizartinib in the medical community and with third-party payors and patients; • commercializing quizartinib and any other drug candidates for which we receive approval; • pursuing clinical development of quizartinib in additional indications, as well as clinical development of other drug candidates; and • generating a pipeline of innovative drug candidates using our drug discovery platform or through licensing strategies. Even if we do generate product sales, we may never achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. 49 Table of Contents Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates. We may seek additional capital through a combination of public and private equity offerings, debt financings, strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a stockholder. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could involve certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or drug candidates, or grant licenses on terms unfavorable to us. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. We believe that, as a result of our initial public offering, or IPO, the concurrent private placement and other transactions that have occurred over the past three years, we have experienced an “ownership change.” We may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As of December 31, 2013, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $192.8 million and $181.7 million, respectively, and federal research and development credits of $6.4 million which could be limited if we experience an “ownership change.” Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and stock price. As widely reported, global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruptions in the past several years, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions will not occur. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by any such economic downturn, volatile business environment or continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans. In addition, there is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which could directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. At December 31, 2013, we had $71.2 million of cash and cash equivalents. While we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents since December 31, 2013, no assurance can be given that further deterioration of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or marketable securities or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Furthermore, our stock price may decline due in part to the volatility of the stock market and the general economic downturn. 50 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our technologies are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our technologies. Any disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market. Composition-of-matter patents on the active pharmaceutical ingredient are generally considered to be the strongest form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products, as such patents provide protection without regard to any method of use. We cannot be certain that the claims in our patent applications covering composition-of-matter of our drug candidates will be considered patentable by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the U.S. PTO, courts in the United States, or by the patent offices and courts in foreign countries. Method-of-use patents protect the use of a product for the specified method. This type of patent does not prevent a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside the scope of the patented method. Moreover, even if competitors do not actively promote their product for our targeted indications, physicians may prescribe these products “off-label.” Although off-label prescriptions may infringe or contribute to the infringement of method-of-use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. The strength of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. The patent applications that we own or license may fail to result in issued patents in the United States or in other foreign countries. Even if the patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge the validity, enforceability or scope thereof, which may result in such patents being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications, including those that we license to Teva, may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around our claims. If the breadth or strength of protection provided by the patent applications we hold with respect to quizartinib or the patents we hold or pursue with respect to other drug candidates is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop, and threaten our ability to commercialize, our drug candidates. Further, if we encounter delays in our clinical trials, the period of time during which we could market our drug candidates under patent protection would be reduced. Since patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing, we cannot be certain that we were the first to file any patent application related to quizartinib or our other candidates. Furthermore, for applications in which all claims are entitled to a priority date before March 16, 2013, an interference proceeding can be provoked by a third-party or instituted by the U.S. PTO, to determine who was the first to invent any of the subject matter covered by the patent claims of our applications. For applications containing a claim not entitled to priority before March 16, 2013, there is greater level of uncertainty in the patent law with the passage of the America Invents Act (2012) which brings into effect significant changes to the U.S. patent laws that are yet untried and untested, and which introduces new procedures for challenging pending patent applications and issued patents. A primary change under this reform is creating a “first to file” system in the U.S. This will require us to be cognizant after March 16, 2013 of the time from invention to filing of a patent application. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we seek to rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and any other elements of our drug discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. Although we require all of our employees to assign their inventions to us, and require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop 51 Table of Contents substantially equivalent information and techniques. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. If we are unable to prevent unauthorized material disclosure of our intellectual property to third parties, we will not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our drug discovery and development efforts. Our commercial success depends in part on our and our collaborators’ avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, as well as administrative proceedings for challenging patents, including interference and reexamination proceedings before the U.S. PTO or oppositions and other comparable proceedings in foreign jurisdictions. Recently, under U.S. patent reform, new procedures including inter partes review and post grant review have been implemented or will be implemented as of March 16, 2013. As stated above, this reform is untried and untested and will bring uncertainty to the possibility of challenge to our patents in the future. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing drug candidates. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our drug candidates may give rise to claims of infringement of the patent rights of others. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents of which we are currently unaware with claims to materials, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of quizartinib and/or our other drug candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications which may later result in issued patents that our drug candidates may infringe. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. If any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover the manufacturing process of any of our drug candidates, any molecules formed during the manufacturing process or any final product itself, the holders of any such patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize such drug candidate unless we obtained a license under the applicable patents, or until such patents expire or they are finally determined to be held invalid or unenforceable. Similarly, if any third-party patent were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of our formulations, processes for manufacture or methods of use, including combination therapy or patient selection methods, the holders of any such patent may be able to block our ability to develop and commercialize the applicable drug candidate unless we obtained a license or until such patent expires or is finally determined to be held invalid or unenforceable. In either case, such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We are aware of a third party patent that relates to an inactive ingredient that we currently use in quizartinib, as well as a third party patent related to diagnostic testing for certain FLT3 mutations in patient samples. Should a license to either third party patent become necessary, we cannot predict whether we or our partners would be able to obtain a license to either of the above, or if a license were available, whether it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. If such patents have a valid claim relating to our use of the inactive ingredient or diagnostic testing required to detect FLT3 mutations and, in either case, a license under the applicable patent is unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, our ability to commercialize quizartinib may be impaired or delayed, which could in turn significantly harm our business. Parties making claims against us may seek and obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our drug candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees for willful infringement, 52 Table of Contents obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our infringing products, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. We cannot predict whether any such license would be available at all or whether it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our drug candidates, and we have done so from time to time. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of our drug candidates, which could harm our business significantly. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or our licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees for willful infringement, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our infringing products, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by the U.S. PTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued patent are due to be paid to the U.S. PTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The U.S. PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to 53 Table of Contents official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. In such an event, our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties, including entities that disclosed such information to us in connection with previously provided screening services. We have received confidential and proprietary information from collaborators, prospective licensees and other third parties. In addition, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed confidential information of these third parties or our employees’ former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial cost and be a distraction to our management and employees. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The price of our stock may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Prior to our IPO, there was no public market for our common stock. Since our IPO in May 2013, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a low of approximately $6 to a high of approximately $21. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including limited trading volume. In addition to the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this prospectus, these factors include: • the commencement, enrollment or results of our planned Phase 3 clinical trial of quizartinib or any ongoing or future clinical trials we may conduct, or changes in the development status of quizartinib or any other drug candidate; • any delay in filing our NDA for quizartinib and any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the FDA’s review of the NDA, including without limitation the FDA’s issuance of a “refusal to file” letter or a request for additional information; • adverse results or delays in clinical trials; • our decision to initiate a clinical trial, not to initiate a clinical trial or to terminate an existing clinical trial; • adverse regulatory decisions, including failure to receive regulatory approval for quizartinib or the companion diagnostic; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements for approvals; • adverse developments concerning our collaborations and our manufacturers; • inability to obtain adequate product supply for any approved drug product or inability to do so at acceptable prices; • the inability to establish additional collaborations; • our failure to commercialize quizartinib and the companion diagnostic, develop additional drug candidates and commercialize additional drug products; • additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; • unanticipated serious safety concerns related to the use of quizartinib or any of our other drug candidates; 54 Table of Contents • introduction of new products or services offered by us or our competitors; • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; • our ability to effectively manage our growth; • the size and growth, if any, of the AML market and other targeted markets; • our ability to successfully enter new markets or develop additional drug candidates; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • our cash position; • failure to meet the estimates and projections of the investment community or that we may otherwise provide to the public; • publication of research reports about us or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • overall performance of the equity markets; • issuances of debt or equity securities; • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the future; • trading volume of our common stock; • changes in accounting practices; • ineffectiveness of our internal controls; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation; • general political and economic conditions; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to the value of our stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. In addition, any future debt financing arrangement may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. 55 Table of Contents Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. As of December 31, 2013, our executive officers, directors, 5% stockholders and their affiliates owned approximately 65% of our voting stock. Therefore, these stockholders will have the ability to influence us through this ownership position. These stockholders may be able to determine all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our stockholders. Furthermore, as a thinly-traded stock, if any of our major stockholders decide to liquidate their holdings, for whatever reason, the impact on our stock price could be detrimental over a prolonged period of time. We are an emerging growth company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in this prospectus and our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of any June 30 before that time or if we have total annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more during any fiscal year before that time, in which cases we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31 or, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during any three year period before that time, we would cease to be an emerging growth company immediately. Even after we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, we may still qualify as a “smaller reporting company” which would allow us to take advantage of many of the same exemptions from disclosure requirements including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in this prospectus and our periodic reports and proxy statements. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. As a result, changes in rules of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or their interpretation, the adoption of new guidance or the application of existing guidance to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and divert our management’s attention. As a public company, we have incurred, and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently adopted by the SEC, and the Nasdaq Global Market to implement provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, impose significant requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Further, in July 2010, 56 Table of Contents the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as “say on pay” and proxy access. Recent legislation permits smaller “emerging growth companies” to implement many of these requirements over a longer period and up to five years from the IPO. We intend to take advantage of this new legislation but cannot guarantee that we will not be required to implement these requirements sooner than budgeted or planned and thereby incur unexpected expenses. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact the manner in which we operate our business in ways we cannot currently anticipate. We expect the rules and regulations applicable to public companies to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. If these requirements divert the attention of our management and personnel from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The increased costs will decrease our net income or increase our consolidated net loss, and may require us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. We cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to these requirements. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall. We expect that significant additional capital may be needed in the future to continue our planned operations, including conducting clinical trials, commercialization efforts, expanded research and development activities and costs associated with operating a public company. To raise capital, we may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in more than one transaction, our stockholders may be materially diluted by subsequent sales, and new investors could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to the holders of our common stock. Pursuant to our 2013 equity incentive plan, or 2013 post-IPO plan, our management is authorized to grant stock options to our employees, directors and consultants. The number of shares available for future grant under our 2013 post-IPO plan will automatically increase each year by an amount equal to 4% of all shares of our capital stock outstanding as of January 1st of each year, subject to the ability of our board of directors to take action to reduce the size of such increase in any given year. Unless our board of directors elects not to increase the number of shares available for future grant each year, our stockholders may experience additional dilution, which could cause our stock price to fall. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders or remove our current management. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; 57 Table of Contents • limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders; • creating a staggered board of directors; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; • permitting our board of directors to accelerate the vesting of outstanding option grants upon certain transactions that result in a change of control; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law which may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 