ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are an exploration stage company with no current source of income and, consequently, our financial condition has been unsound in the past and might again be so in the future. We were incorporated in April 2000 and are still an exploration stage company. Our operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in exploration stage companies with no revenues or operating income. Our potential for success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with a new business, especially the oil and gas exploration business. We cannot warrant or provide any assurance that our business objectives will be accomplished. All of our audited financial statements since inception have contained a statement by the auditors that raise substantial doubt about us being able to continue as a "going concern" unless we are able to raise additional capital. If we are unable to obtain additional financing and/or are not able to reach agreements pursuant to which members of management continue to defer significant portions of their compensation, we may be unable to execute our business plan. Our planned work program is expensive. If we are unable to raise additional working capital, we would have sufficient funds for our activities only into June 2009. These activities include drilling the Ma'anit-Rehoboth #2 well to the Triassic on the Ma'anit prospect in the Joseph License, which we estimate could cost as much as $4,500,000 for a dry hole and $5,200,000 for a completed producer, assuming that we do not encounter any significant drilling or completion problems. On January 29, 2009, we filed a registration statement with the SEC with respect to a proposed rights offering to common stockholders of up to 4.2 million shares of our common stock. We need to raise at least $3,000,000 from the proposed rights offering in order to deepen the well to a depth of between 18,040 feet to both appraise the apparent findings of the Ma’anit #1 in the Triassic at a depth of approximately 12,000 and 15,400 feet and to test the deeper Permian horizons at a depth of between approximately 16,000 and 18,000 feet. We will also need to raise an additional $2,000,000 for completion of the well and production facilities and another $7,800,000 to drill the Elijah #3 well on the Asher-Menashe license. No assurance can be provided that these, or any, amounts can be raised. Additionally, as of December 31, 2008, our officers and key employees have deferred a substantial portion of their salaries and other compensation due through July 2009. Our business plan requires us to reach agreements with our deferring officers and employees to continue to accept partial payment of their currently due salaries. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reach such agreements. We estimate our current non-discretionary monthly expenditure rate to be approximately $250,000. The recent and continuing turmoil in the credit and equity markets may adversely affect our ability to raise the needed funds from the proposed rights offering or otherwise. In any event, any additional financing could cause your relative interest in our assets and potential earnings to be significantly diluted. Even if we have exploration success, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset the cost of dry holes and general and administrative expenses. 17 A substantial and extended decline in oil or natural gas prices could adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our unproved oil & gas assets. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely. Fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas will affect many aspects of our business, including our ability to attract capital to finance our operations, our cost of capital, and the value of our unproved oil and natural gas properties. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a wide variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls, technological advances affecting energy consumption, and domestic and foreign governmental regulations. Significant and extended reductions in oil and natural gas prices could require us to reduce our capital expenditures and impair the carrying value of our assets. If we are successful in finding commercial quantities of oil and/or gas, our revenues, operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital will depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Declines in oil and gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and operating results. Lower oil and gas prices also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we could produce economically. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile, making it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of oil and gas. The drilling rig has not yet been rigged up for drilling and, thus, we may be unable to commence our planned drilling operations as contemplated. On September 12, 2008, we signed a drilling contract with Aladdin, a gas and exploration and production company, pursuant to which Aladdin has committed to provide its 2,000 horsepower rig and crews for our planned drilling program. As of March 26, 2009, all of the material permits and authorization needed for the arrival in Israel of the rig and work crews have been obtained. Aladdin is in the process of procuring from the Israeli Ministry of Interior certain permits needed for the issuance of visas for its rig crews. While no indication has been received from the Ministry that the needed permits will not be issued, no assurance can be provided as to when or whether these permits will be issued. Subject to obtaining these permits in a timely manner, we currently anticipate that the rig will arrive in Israel and clear customs in April 2009. Aladdin estimates that it will require approximately two weeks from the date that the rig clears customs until the rig will be rigged up and ready for drilling. No assurance can, however, be provided as to the arrival date of the rig, or how long it will in fact take to rig up and begin the other drilling related activities. We have no proved reserves or current production and we may never have any. We do not have any proved reserves or current production of oil or gas. We cannot assure you that any wells will be completed or produce oil or gas in commercially profitable quantities. We have a history of losses and we could remain unprofitable for a long time. We incurred net losses of $4,018,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008, $13,047,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007 (of which $9,494,000 reflected the impairment of our unproved oil and gas properties recorded in connection with the abandonment of our Ma’anit #1 well), and $24,405,000 for period from April 6, 2000 (inception) to December 31, 2008. We cannot assure that we will ever be profitable. We have significant cash commitments for executive compensation, thus reducing the amounts of money available for exploratory drilling. Under existing compensation agreements, we are committed to pay to certain of our executive officers and employees approximately $1,427,000 on an annual basis. As of December 31, 2008, these and other officers have voluntarily committed to defer payment of $1,607,000 of unpaid compensation that accrued through December 31, 2008, to at least July 1, 2009, subject to partial earlier payment in certain circumstances. There is no assurance that such deferral will continue in the future. If we do not have a discovery of oil or gas, a sizable portion of our capital resources, including the amounts raised in the future, may be used for executive compensation, reducing the amounts available for exploratory drilling. 18 Under an agreement with one of our former executive officers entered into in January 2009, we have been making payments against his deferred amounts under a settlement agreement related to $283,000 of the $1,607,000 total deferred compensation at December 31, 2008. Under the agreement, we made an initial payment of $43,000 plus value added tax (“VAT”) for a total payment of $50,000 and, commencing February 2009, began remitting monthly payments of $10,000 plus VAT, for a total monthly payment of $12,000, through February 2011. The agreement also provided that no further monies would be due to the officer from the company, including a previously accrued severance liability. Under certain specified conditions, we may be required to accelerate the monthly payments. As the agreed monthly remittances do not exceed the monthly amounts previously paid to him under his former employment agreement (in which the term of employment expired on December 31, 2008), and as the aggregate amount payable under the agreement does not exceed the amount we have accrued in respect of deferred payments to such person, we do not believe that the settlement agreement results in any additional impact to our liquidity. Oil and gas exploration is an inherently risky business. Exploratory drilling involves enormous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be discovered. Even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data analysis and other computer simulation techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in trying to identify subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically available. The risk analysis techniques we use in evaluating potential drilling sites rely on subjective judgments of our personnel and consultants. Operating hazards and uninsured risks with respect to the oil and gas operations may have material adverse effects on our operations. Our exploration and, if successful, development and production operations are subject to all of the risks normally incident to the exploration for and the development and production of oil and gas, including blowouts, cratering, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution and other environmental and operating risks. These hazards could result in substantial losses due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. While as a matter of practice we take out insurance against some or all of these risks, such insurance may not cover the particular hazard and may not be sufficient to cover all losses. The occurrence of a significant event adversely affecting any of the oil and gas properties in which we have an interest could have a material adverse affect on us, could materially affect our continued operation and could expose us to material liability. Political risks may adversely affect our business. Our operations are concentrated in Israel and could be directly affected by political, economic and military conditions in Israel. Efforts to secure a lasting peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors and Palestinian residents have been underway since Israel became a country in 1948 and the future of these peace efforts is still uncertain. Kibbutz Ma'anit (where we drilled our first well and plan to drill our second well) is in an area adjacent to Israeli Arab towns where anti-Israeli rioting broke out in late 2000. On December 27, 2008, Israel began a military offensive against the Hamas terrorist organization based in Gaza. (Gaza is in the South and our license areas are in the North of Israel.) Currently, a cease-fire is in effect. Any future armed conflict, political instability or continued violence in the region could have a negative effect on our operations and business conditions in Israel, as well as our ability to raise additional capital necessary for completion of our exploration program. 19 Economic risks may adversely affect our business. Economically, our operations in Israel may be subject to: · exchange rate fluctuations; · royalty and tax increases and other risks arising out of Israeli State sovereignty over the mineral rights in Israel and its taxing authority; and · changes in Israel's economy that could cause the legislation of oil and gas price controls. Consequently, our operations may be substantially affected by local economic factors beyond our control, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance and prospects. Legal risks could negatively affect the value of Zion. Legally, our operations in Israel may be subject to: · changes in the Petroleum Law resulting in modification of license and permit rights; · adoption of new legislation relating to the terms and conditions pursuant to which operations in the energy sector may be conducted; · changes in laws and policies affecting operations of foreign-based companies in Israel; and · changes in governmental energy and environmental policies or the personnel administering them. The Israeli Ministry of National Infrastructures is considering proposed legislation relating to licensing requirements for entities engaged in the fuel sector that, if adopted as currently proposed, may result in our having to obtain additional licenses to market and sell hydrocarbons that may be discovered by us. We have been advised by the Ministry that they do not intend to deprive a holder of petroleum rights under the Petroleum Law of its right under that law to sell hydrocarbons discovered and produced under its petroleum rights. See “BUSINESS—Proposed Legislation” at page 15. We cannot now predict whether or in what form the proposed legislation may be adopted or, if adopted, its possible impact on our operations. Further, in the event of a legal dispute in Israel, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of Israeli courts or we may not be successful in subjecting persons who are not United States residents to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States, either of which could adversely affect the outcome of a dispute. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is considering proposed legislation relating to polluted materials, including their production, treatment, handling, storage and transportation, that may affect land or water resources. Persons engaged in activities involving these types of materials will be required to prepare environmental impact statements and remediation plans either prior to commencing activities or following the occurrence of an event that may cause pollution to land or water resources or endanger public health. See “BUSINESS—Environmental Matters” at page 14. We do now know and cannot predict whether any legislation in this area will be enacted and, if so, in what form and which of its provisions, if any, will relate to and affect our activities, how and to what extent. Our petroleum rights (including licenses and permits) could be canceled, terminated or not extended, and we would not be able to successfully execute our business plan. Any license or other petroleum right we hold or may be granted is granted for fixed periods and requires compliance with a work program detailed in the license or other petroleum right. If we do not fulfill the relevant work program due to inadequate funding or for any other reason, the Israeli government may terminate the license or any other petroleum right before its scheduled expiration date. The terms of the Asher-Menashe license require us to commence drilling a well by July 1, 2009. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to obtain an extension to this if in fact we are unable to begin drilling by such date. 20 There are limitations on the transfer of interests in our petroleum rights, which could impair our ability to raise additional funds to execute our business plan. The Israeli government has the right to approve any transfer of rights and interests in any license or other petroleum right we hold or may be granted and any mortgage of any license or other petroleum rights to borrow money. If we attempt to raise additional funds through borrowings or joint ventures with other companies and are unable to obtain required approvals from the government, the value of your investment could be significantly diluted or even lost. Our dependence on the limited contractors, equipment and professional services available in Israel will result in increased costs and possibly material delays in our work schedule. Due to the lack of competitive resources in Israel, costs for our operations may be more expensive than costs for similar operations in other parts of the world. We are also more likely to incur delays in our drilling schedule and be subject to a greater risk of failure in meeting our required work schedule. Similarly, some of the oil field personnel we need to undertake our planned operations are not necessarily available in Israel or available on short notice for work in Israel. Any or all of the factors specified above may result in increased costs and delays in the work schedule. Our dependence on Israeli local licenses and permits may require more funds than we have budgeted and may cause delays in our work schedule. In connection with drilling operations, we are subject to a number of Israeli local licenses and permits. Some of these are issued by the Israeli security forces, the Civil Aviation Authority, the Israeli Water Commission, the Israel Lands Authority (referred to herein as the “ILA” or the “Authority”), the holders of the surface rights in the lands on which we intend to conduct drilling operations, including Kibbutz Ma'anit, local and regional planning commissions, and environmental authorities. In the event of a commercial discovery and depending on the nature of the discovery and the production and related distribution equipment necessary to produce and sell the discovered hydrocarbons, we may be subject to additional licenses and permits, including from various departments in the Ministry of National Infrastructures, regional and local planning commissions and the environmental authorities. If we are unable to obtain some or all of these permits or the time required to obtain them is longer than anticipated, we may have to alter or delay our planned work schedule, which would increase our costs. If we are successful in finding commercial quantities of oil and gas, our operations will be subject to laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment, which can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of our doing business. Many Israeli laws and regulations require permits for the operation of various facilities, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations could subject us to fines, injunctions or both. If compliance with environmental regulations is more expensive than anticipated, it could adversely impact the profitability of our business. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are inherent in oil and gas operations. It is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from oil and gas exploration and production, would result in substantial costs and liabilities. This could also cause our insurance premiums to be significantly greater than anticipated. (See “BUSINESS – Environmental Matters” at page 14). The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business. We are highly dependent on the services of Glen Perry and other key personnel. The loss of certain of our key employees could have a material adverse impact on the development of our business. We currently do not maintain key employee insurance policies on these employees. 21 Future earnings will be affected due to charitable contributions and key employee incentive plan. We are committed to donating in the form of a royalty interest or equivalent net operating profits interest of 6% of our gross sales revenues, if any, to two foundations. In addition, we may allocate a 1.5% royalty interest or equivalent net operating profits interest to a key employee incentive plan. This means that the total royalty burden on our property (including the government royalty of 12.5%) will be up to 20%. The exercise of currently outstanding warrants and options may adversely affect the market price of our common stock In connection with our Follow On Public Offering, as of December 31, 2008, we had issued warrants to purchase up to 416,404 shares of our common stock at a per share exercise price of $7.00, exercisable between February 9, 2009 and January 31, 2012. In January 2009, in connection with the final closing of our Follow On Public Offering, we issued warrants to purchase an additional 249,939 shares on the same terms, bringing the total number of warrants issued to 666,343. The shares underlying these warrants have been registered and, accordingly, any shares issued upon the exercise of these warrants will be immediately resalable on the open market. Additionally, we currently have (a) warrants outstanding to purchase 96,621 shares of common stock at prices ranging between $5.00 and $8.75 per share of which warrants to purchase 50,000 shares are exercisable through December 31, 2009, warrants to purchase 46,621 shares are exercisable through September 25, 2009 and warrants to purchase 666,343 shares are exercisable through January 31, 2012, and (b) employee stock options outstanding to purchase 290,549 shares of common stock at prices ranging between $0.01 and $5.60 per share, which amount includes 40,000 options granted in January 2009. The exercise or possibility of exercise of outstanding warrants and employee stock options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock, and you may experience dilution to your holdings. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and our management is required to issue a report concerning our internal controls over financial reporting in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the effectiveness of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Our independent auditors will be required to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. It is possible that we could discover certain deficiencies in the design and/or operation of our internal controls that could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data. We have invested and will continue to invest significant resources in this process. We are uncertain as to what impact a conclusion that deficiencies exist in our internal controls over financial reporting would have on the trading price of our common stock. Cash dividends will not be paid to shareholders for the foreseeable future. You may receive little or no cash or stock dividends on your shares of common stock. The board of directors has not directed the payment of any dividends, does not anticipate paying dividends on the shares for the foreseeable future and intends to retain any future earnings to the extent necessary to develop and expand our business. Payment of cash dividends, if any, will depend, among other factors, on our earnings, capital requirements, and the general operating and financial condition, and will be subject to legal limitations on the payment of dividends out of paid-in capital. 22 Our common stock has limited liquidity, so investors may not be able to sell any significant number of shares of our stock at prevailing market prices. The average daily trading volume of our common stock, as well as our stock price, have fluctuated over the past 90 days. The average trading volume has significantly increased since January 30, 2009 with an average daily trading volume of 56,067 shares per day for the 90 days ended March 27, 2009. For the 60 day period ended January 29, 2009, the average daily trading volume of our common stock was approximately 16,768 shares. If limited trading in our stock decreases, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market for our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results, • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors, • conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry, • the success of our operating strategy, and • the operating and stock performance of other comparable companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will increase to the per share price at which the Unit was offered or that the market price of common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 