ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating our company, the risk factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with our Company We are a development stage company with no current source of revenue. Our ability to continue in business depends upon our continued ability to obtain significant financing from external sources and the ultimate success of our petroleum exploration efforts in onshore Israel, none of which can be assured. We were incorporated in April 2000 and are still a development stage company. We have incurred negative cash flows from our operations, and presently all exploration activities and overhead expenses are financed solely by way of the issue and sale of equity securities. The recoverability of the costs we have incurred to date is uncertain and is dependent upon achieving commercial production or sale, none of which can be assured. Our operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in exploration stage companies with no revenues or operating income. Our potential for success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with a new business, especially the oil and gas exploration business, and in particular the deep, wildcat exploratory wells in which we are engaged in Israel. We cannot warrant or provide any assurance that our business objectives will be accomplished. We expect to incur substantial expenditures in our exploration and development programs. Our existing cash balances will not be sufficient to satisfy our exploration and development plans going forward. We are considering various alternatives to remedy any future shortfall in capital. We may deem it necessary to raise capital through equity markets, debt markets or other financing arrangements, including participation arrangements that may be available. Because of the current absence of any oil and natural gas reserves and revenues in our license areas, there can be no assurance this capital will be available on commercially acceptable terms (or at all) and if it is not, we may be forced to substantially curtail or cease exploration expenditures which could lead to our inability to meet all of our commitments. 15 The spudding of our next exploratory well is subject to many contingencies outside of our control, and any considerable delay in obtaining all of the needed licenses, approvals and authorizations prior to actual drilling may severely impair our business. Even though we were granted the Megiddo-Jezreel License, there are a number of risks and contingencies involved in identifying our next exploratory well prospect. We need to acquire, process and interpret additional seismic and other geological and geophysical studies in these areas. We need to contract with the Geophysical Institute of Israel (GII), or some other appropriate seismic services provider, to undertake these studies. Historically, we have had a significant time lag in contracting for and the actual performance of these seismic services by GII. GII is the only seismic services provider in Israel. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to undertake the needed studies in a timely manner. Finally, even after we are able to perform the necessary geological and geophysical studies in a timely manner and are successful in identifying our next exploratory well drilling prospect, the newly implemented onshore exploration permitting process in Israel is anticipated to considerably increase the time needed to obtain all of the needed regulatory and local permits and approval needed to spud our next exploratory well. We estimate that the permitting process alone may take between 12 and 18 months following the identification of the site of our next exploratory well. See the discussion under “Energy Related Regulation -The Onshore Exploration Permitting Process in Israel”, the “New Onshore Licensing Guidelines” and “Israeli Governmental Regulations”. For the reasons above, we cannot accurately estimate when we will be able to drill our next exploratory well. Additionally, prior to actually commencing drilling, we will need to contract with a drilling rig operator with the appropriate drilling rig and crew to carry out the drilling. See “We have not signed an agreement with a drilling contractor….” We require significant capital to realize our business plan. Our planned work program is expensive. We believe that our current cash resources are sufficient to allow us to undertake non-drilling exploratory activities in our current license areas and in the additional areas of interest that we have identified which are currently outside of our exploration license areas and otherwise meet our plans through March 31, 2015. We estimate that, when we are not actively drilling a well, our monthly expenditure is approximately $494,000 per month. However, when we are engaged in active drilling operations, we estimate that there is an additional cost of approximately $2,500,000 per month. Additionally, the newly enacted onshore licensing and environmental and safety related regulations promulgated by the various energy related ministries in Israel during 2012-2013 are likely to render obtaining new explorations licenses increasingly expensive. For example, at the time of the award of any new exploration license, we will be required to submit performance bank guarantees for 10% of the cost of the planned drilling program as well as other amounts to cover potential environmental damages. See “Israel Energy Related Governmental Regulations”. We have no commitments for any financing and no assurance can be provided that we will be able to raise funds when needed. Further, we cannot assure you that our actual cash requirements will not exceed our estimates. Even if we were to discover hydrocarbons in commercial quantities, we will require additional financing to bring our interests into commercial operation and pay for operating expenses until we achieve a positive cash flow. Additional capital also may be required in the event we incur any significant unanticipated expenses. Under the current capital and credit market conditions, we may not be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing on acceptable terms. Even if financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are favorable to us or in sufficient amounts to satisfy our requirements. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to implement our business plan and our growth strategies, respond to changing business or economic conditions and withstand adverse operating results. If we are unable to raise further financing when required, our planned exploration activities may have to be scaled down or even ceased, and our ability to generate revenues in the future would be negatively affected. Additional financing could cause your relative interest in our assets and potential earnings to be significantly diluted. Even if we have exploration success, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset the cost of dry holes and general and administrative expenses. 16 We are not in compliance with some of the terms of our existing petroleum exploration licenses and such non-compliance may result in the loss or forfeiture of such license(s). The loss or forfeiture of any of our licenses may have an adverse effect on our business and prospects Based on the results of seismic and other geological and geophysical tests that we have undertaken, we did not drill a well in the Jordan Valley License by April 13, 2013. We may prepare and submit to the Petroleum Commissioner a new work program to perform additional non-drilling exploratory work in the Jordan Valley License area. Thus, we are currently non-compliant with some of the express terms of our Jordan Valley License. Accordingly, we cannot assess the consequences of our non-compliance with the express terms of the current licenses, which may include the forfeiture of existing license rights. See discussion under “Summary of Exploration Efforts” and “Exploration Plans Going Forward”. The loss or forfeiture of one or more of current licenses or the refusal to extend such licenses when they are up for renewal may adversely affect our business and prospects. We have not signed an agreement with a drilling contractor and thus, we may be unable to affect any future drilling operations within the contemplated time-frame. Following the completion of the Ma’anit-Joseph #3 well, the drilling rig that we used to drill our last three exploratory wells was exported by the owner from Israel, in January 2012. Until such time as we sign a legally binding agreement, there can be no assurance that we will be able to come to an agreement with the drilling contractor to drill any future exploratory well(s) on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any delay in locating and contracting with an appropriate drilling rig owner/operator can have a material adverse effect on the expanded and new exploration rights that we are seeking and on the implementation of our business plan. We rely on independent experts and technical or operational service providers over whom we may have limited control. The success of our oil and gas exploration efforts is dependent upon the efforts of various third parties that we do not control. These third parties provide critical engineering, geological, geophysical and other scientific analytical services, including 2-D seismic imaging technology to explore for and develop oil and gas prospects. Given our small size and limited resources, we do not have all the required expertise on staff. As a result, we rely upon various companies and other third persons to assist us in identifying desirable hydrocarbon prospects to acquire and to provide us with technical assistance and services. In addition, we rely upon the owners and operators of drilling rigs and related equipment. If any of these relationships with third-party service providers are terminated or are unavailable on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our limited control over the activities and business practices of these third parties, any inability on our part to maintain satisfactory commercial relationships with them, their limited availability or their failure to provide quality services could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We typically commence exploration drilling operations without undertaking extensive analytical testing thereby potentially increasing the risk (and associated costs) of drilling a non-producing well. Larger oil and gas exploration companies typically conduct extensive analytical pre-drilling testing. These include 3-D seismic imaging, the drilling of an expendable “pilot” well or “stratigraphic test” to collect data (logs, cores, fluid samples, pressure data) to determine if drilling a well capable of producing oil or gas well (full completion with casing and well testing) is justified. The use of pilot or stratigraphic tests is often used in areas where there is little or no offset well data, like Israel, where our exploration license and permits areas are located. While 3-D seismic imaging data is more useful than 2-D data in identifying potential new drilling prospect, its acquisition and processing costs are many multiples greater than that for 2-D data, and GII, our primary provider of geophysical data, has limited ability to acquire and process onshore 3-D data. In addition to using 2-D seismic technology prior to drilling, we have historically also utilized gravity and magnetic data, built cross section maps from offset wells and utilized geophysical analysis from similar geologic targets. We believe that the additional months, delays and associated costs associated with more extensive pre-drilling testing typically undertaken by larger oil and gas exploration companies is not necessarily justified when drilling vertical exploration wells (as we have historically been doing). Nonetheless, the absence of more extensive pre-drilling testing may potentially increase the risk of drilling a non-producing well, which would in turn result in increased costs and expenses. Additionally, we are typically engaged in drilling very deep onshore wildcat wells in Israel where only approximately 500 total wells have ever been drilled, the vast majority of which are relatively shallower. As such, exploration risks are inherently very substantial. 17 Exploratory well drilling locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular location will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil, natural gas liquids (NGLs) or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient amounts of oil, NGLs or natural gas exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing a well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. If we drill exploratory wells that we identify as dry holes in our future drilling locations, our business may be materially harmed. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored locations or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling locations. Ultimately, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive. Deterioration of political, economic and security conditions in Israel may adversely affect our operations. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a substantial decline in the prevailing regional security situation or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Beginning in September 2000, the overall relationship and security situation between Israel and the Palestinians deteriorated significantly and continues to be marked by ongoing violence, also varying in its degree of severity. During the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party; and during the winter of 2008-2009 and as recently as November 2012, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas, a militia group and political party operating in the Gaza Strip. These conflicts involved missile strikes against civilian targets in various parts of Israel. To date, these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. Civil unrest, often accompanied by violence associated with the so-called “Arab Spring” has spread throughout the region over the last several years in areas such as Egypt, Syria, Jordan, and Lebanon. Protestors have demanded economic and political reforms, and to date, there have been several regime changes. Civil unrest could continue to spread throughout the region or grow in intensity, leading to more regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to the United States and Israel, civil wars, or regional conflict. International tensions continue to exist over Iran regarding their possible development of nuclear weapons. Certain countries have considered actions ranging from economic sanctions to pre-emptive strikes on suspected nuclear sites, and Iranian officials have threatened retaliation by, among other actions, closing the Strait of Hormuz, through which a significant portion of the global crude oil supply is transported. There is also concern in Israel that the internal conflict in Syria, with which Israel shares a border, may spill over into Israel. Prolonged and/or widespread regional conflict in the Middle East could have the following results, among others: · capital market reassessment of risk and subsequent redeployment of capital to more stable areas making it more difficult for us to obtain financing for potential development projects; · security concerns in Israel, making it more difficult for our personnel or supplies to enter or exit the country; · security concerns leading to evacuation of our personnel; · damage to or destruction of our wells, production facilities, receiving terminals or other operating assets; · inability of our service and equipment providers to deliver items necessary for us to conduct our operations in Israel, resulting in delays; and · lack of availability of drilling rig and experienced crew, oilfield equipment or services if third party providers decide to exit the region. 18 Loss of property and/or interruption of our business plans resulting from hostile acts could have a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow. In addition, we may not have enough insurance to cover any loss of property or other claims resulting from these risks. We have a history of losses and we cannot assure you that we will ever be profitable. We incurred net losses of $9,077,000 for the year ended December 31, 2013, and $10,294,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012. We have incurred total net losses of $128,040,000 for period from April 6, 2000 (inception) to December 31, 2013. We cannot provide any assurance that we will ever be profitable. Earnings, if any, will be diluted due to charitable contributions and key employee incentive plans. We are legally bound to fund in the form of a royalty interest or equivalent net operating profits interest, 6% of our gross sales revenues, if any, to two charitable foundations. In addition, we may allocate 1.5% royalty interest or equivalent net operating profits interest to a key employee incentive plan designed as bonus compensation over and above our executive compensation payments. This means that the total royalty burden on our property (including the government royalty of 12.5%) may be up to 20% of gross revenue. As our expenses increase with respect to the amount of sales, these donations and allocation could significantly dilute future earnings and, thus, depress the price of the common stock. Risks Associated with our Business We are subject to increasing Israeli governmental regulations and environmental requirements that may cause us to incur substantial incremental costs and/or delays in our drilling program. Our business is subject to laws and regulations promulgated by the State of Israel relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and marketing of, crude oil and natural gas, as well as safety matters. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make substantial expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. Environmental laws and regulations change frequently and the implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations could adversely impact our operations. The discharge of natural gas, crude oil, or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to substantial liabilities on our part to government agencies and third parties and may require us to incur substantial costs of remediation. In addition, we may incur costs and penalties in addressing regulatory agency procedures involving instances of possible non-compliance. Our lack of diversification increases the risk of an investment in us, and our financial condition and results of operations may deteriorate if we fail to diversify. Our business focus is on oil and gas exploration on a limited number of properties in Israel and exploitation of any significant reserves that are found within our license areas. As a result, we lack diversification, in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. We will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate than we would if our business were more diversified. If we are unable to diversify our operations, our financial condition and results of operations could deteriorate. We currently have no proved reserves or current production and we may never have any. We do not have any proved reserves or current production of oil or gas. We cannot assure you that any wells will be completed or produce oil or gas in commercially profitable quantities. Oil and gas exploration is an inherently risky business. Exploratory drilling involves enormous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be discovered. Even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data analysis and other computer simulation techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in trying to identify subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically available. The risk analysis techniques we use in evaluating potential drilling sites rely on subjective judgments of our personnel and consultants. Additionally, we are typically engaged in drilling deep onshore wildcat exploratory wells in Israel where only approximately 500 total wells have ever been drilled, the vast majority of which are relatively shallower. As such, exploration risks are inherently very substantial. 19 A substantial and extended decline in oil or natural gas prices could adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our unproved oil and gas assets. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely. Fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas will affect many aspects of our business, including our ability to attract capital to finance our operations, our cost of capital, and the value of our unproved oil and natural gas properties. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a wide variety of additional factors (such as the current political turmoil in the Middle East) that are beyond our control, such as the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls, technological advances affecting energy consumption, and domestic and foreign governmental regulations. Significant and extended reductions in oil and natural gas prices could require us to reduce our capital expenditures and impair the carrying value of our assets. If we are successful in finding commercial quantities of oil and/or gas, our revenues, operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital will depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Declines in oil and gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and operating results. Lower oil and gas prices also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we could produce economically. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile, making it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of oil and gas. The insurance we carry is insufficient to cover all of the risks we face, which could result in significant financial exposure. Exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other un-fortuitous events such as blowouts, well cratering, fire and explosion and loss of well control which can result in damage to or destruction of wells, injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property and the environment. Exploration and production activities are also subject to risk from political developments such as terrorist acts, piracy, civil disturbances, war, expropriation or nationalization of assets, which can cause loss of or damage to our property. As is customary within our industry, we maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential perils confronting our operations and in coverage amounts and deductible levels that we believe to be economic. Consistent with that profile, our insurance program is structured to provide us financial protection from unfavorable loss resulting from damages to or the loss of physical assets or loss of human life, liability claims of third parties, and exploratory drilling interruption attributed to certain assets and including such occurrences as well blowouts and resulting oil spills, at a level that balances cost of insurance with our assessment of risk and our ability to achieve a reasonable rate of return on our investments. Although we believe the coverage and amounts of insurance carried are adequate and consistent with industry practice, we do not have insurance protection against all the risks we face, because we chose not to insure certain risks, insurance is not available at a level that balances the cost of insurance and our desired rates of return, or actual losses exceed coverage limits. We regularly review our risks of loss and the cost and availability of insurance and revise our insurance program accordingly. If an event occurs that is not covered by insurance or not fully protected by insured limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 We face various risks associated with the trend toward increased activism against oil and gas exploration and development activities. Opposition toward oil and gas drilling and development activity has been growing globally and is particularly pronounced in OECD countries which include the U.S., the U.K and Israel. Companies in the oil and gas industry, such as us, are often the target of activist efforts from both individuals and non-governmental organizations regarding safety, human rights, environmental compliance and business practices. Future activist efforts could result in the following: · delay or denial of drilling permits; · shortening of lease terms or reduction in lease size; · restrictions on installation or operation of gathering or processing facilities; · restrictions on the use of certain operating practices, such as hydraulic fracturing; · legal challenges or lawsuits; · damaging publicity about us; · increased costs of doing business; · reduction in demand for our products; and · other adverse effects on our ability to develop our properties and expand production. Our need to incur costs associated with responding to these initiatives or complying with any resulting new legal or regulatory requirements resulting from these activities that are substantial and not adequately provided for, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic risks may adversely affect our operations and/or inhibit our ability to raise additional capital. Economically, our operations in Israel may be subject to: · exchange rate fluctuations; · royalty and tax increases and other risks arising out of Israeli State sovereignty over the mineral rights in Israel and its taxing authority; and · changes in Israel's economy that could cause the legislation of oil and gas price controls. Consequently, our operations may be substantially affected by local economic factors beyond our control, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance and prospects. Legal risks could negatively affect our market value. Legally, our operations in Israel may be subject to: · changes in the Petroleum Law resulting in modification of license and permit rights; · adoption of new legislation relating to the terms and conditions pursuant to which operations in the energy sector may be conducted; · changes in laws and policies affecting operations of foreign-based companies in Israel; and · changes in governmental energy and environmental policies or the personnel administering them. The Israeli Ministry of Energy and Water Resources is considering proposed legislation relating to licensing requirements for entities engaged in the fuel sector that, if adopted as currently proposed, may result in our having to obtain additional licenses to market and sell hydrocarbons that may be discovered by us. We cannot now predict whether or in what form the proposed legislation may be adopted or, if adopted, its possible impact on our operations. Further, in the event of a legal dispute in Israel, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of Israeli courts or we may not be successful in subjecting persons who are not United States residents to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States, either of which could adversely affect the outcome of a dispute. 21 The Ministry of Environmental Protection is considering proposed legislation relating to polluted materials, including their production, treatment, handling, storage and transportation, that may affect land or water resources. Persons engaged in activities involving these types of materials will be required to prepare environmental impact statements and remediation plans either prior to commencing activities or following the occurrence of an event that may cause pollution to land or water resources or endanger public health. We do now know and cannot predict whether any legislation in this area will be enacted and, if so, in what form and which of its provisions, if any, will relate to and affect our activities, how and to what extent. There are limitations on the transfer of interests in our petroleum rights, which could impair our ability to raise additional funds to execute our business plan. The Israeli government has the right to approve any transfer of rights and interests in any license or other petroleum right we hold or may be granted and any mortgage of any license or other petroleum rights to borrow money. If we attempt to raise additional funds through borrowings or joint ventures with other companies and are unable to obtain required approvals from the government, the value of your investment could be significantly diluted or even lost. Our dependence on the limited contractors, equipment and professional services available in Israel may result in increased costs and possibly material delays in our work schedule. Due to the lack of competitive resources in Israel, costs for our operations may be more expensive than costs for similar operations in other parts of the world. We are also more likely to incur delays in our drilling schedule and be subject to a greater risk of failure in meeting our required work schedule. Similarly, some of the oil field personnel we need to undertake our planned operations are not necessarily available in Israel or available on short notice for work in Israel. Any or all of the factors specified above may result in increased costs and delays in the work schedule. Our dependence on Israeli local licenses and permits as well as new regulations calling for enhanced bank guarantees and insurance coverage may require more funds than we have budgeted and may cause delays in our work schedule. In connection with drilling operations, we are subject to a number of Israeli local licenses and permits. Some of these are issued by the Israeli security forces, the Civil Aviation Authority, the Israeli Water Commission, the Israel Lands Authority, the holders of the surface rights in the lands on which we intend to conduct drilling operations, local and regional planning commissions and environmental authorities. In the event of a commercial discovery and depending on the nature of the discovery and the production and related distribution equipment necessary to produce and sell the discovered hydrocarbons, we will be subject to additional licenses and permits, including from various departments in the Ministry of Energy and Water Resources, regional and local planning commissions, the environmental authorities and the Israel Lands Authority. If we are unable to obtain some or all of these permits or the time required to obtain them is longer than anticipated, we may have to alter or delay our planned work schedule, which would increase our costs. If we are successful in finding commercial quantities of oil and/or gas, our operations will be subject to laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment, which can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of our doing business. Many Israeli laws and regulations require permits for the operation of various facilities, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations could subject us to fines, injunctions or both. If compliance with environmental regulations is more expensive than anticipated, it could adversely impact the profitability of our business. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are inherent in oil and gas operations. It is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from oil and gas exploration and production, would result in substantial costs and liabilities. This could also cause our insurance premiums to be significantly greater than anticipated. 22 The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, other oil field services and personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and oilfield services. There may also be a shortage of trained and experienced personnel. During these periods, the costs of such items are substantially greater and their availability may be limited, particularly in locations that typically have limited availability of equipment and personnel, such as the Eastern Mediterranean, where our operations are located. During periods of increasing levels of industry exploration and production, the demand for, and cost of, drilling rigs and oilfield services increases. The recovery of global crude oil prices during 2012 and 2013 is resulting in increased global exploration and production activity, thus increasing demand pressure for drilling rigs and oilfield services, which could result in sector inflation. As a result, drilling rigs and oilfield services may not be available at rates that provide a satisfactory return on our investment. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our failure to comply with NASDAQ’s listing standards could result in the delisting of our common stock by NASDAQ from the NASDAQ Global Market and severely limit the ability to sell our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. Under NASDAQ’s listing maintenance standards, if the closing bid price of our common stock is under $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days, NASDAQ will notify us that we may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. If the closing bid price of our common stock does not thereafter regain compliance for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days during the 180 days following notification by NASDAQ, NASDAQ may delist our common stock from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. There can be no assurance that our common stock will remain eligible for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. In addition, if our common stock is delisted, our stockholders would not be able to sell our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market, and their ability to sell any of our common stock would be severely, if not completely, limited. Between January 31 and February 26, 2013, the per share price of our common stock closed at between $0.85 and $1.16 on the NASDAQ Global Market. If we are not able to maintain compliance with such continuing listing requirements going forward, our stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock, as well as on our ability to raise additional funds. We will likely issue additional common stock in the future, which would dilute our existing stockholders. In the future we anticipate issuing additional securities in connection with capital raising efforts, including shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our stockholders. We are authorized under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of February, 24, 2014, there were 34,175,292 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. We have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-174266) from which additional shares of our common stock and other securities can be issued. In addition, we may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future issuances of our common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The current registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on May 26, 2011 and therefore, is effective until May 25, 2014 plus 180 days thereafter. On January 13, 2014, a Form S-3 Registration Statement, which is a replacement registration statement for our currently effective registration statement, was filed with the SEC using a “shelf” registration process. The replacement Form S-3 stated that from time to time, we may offer up to an aggregate of approximately $120,350,000 (the amount remaining under our existing shelf registration) of any combination of the securities described in this prospectus, either individually or in units. We will not sell under this registration statement and prospectus common stock or other securities with a market value exceeding one-third of the aggregate market value of our outstanding common stock owned by non-affiliates, or the public float, in any 12-month period; provided, however, if the aggregate market value of our public float equals or exceeds $75 million, such limitation shall not apply to sales made pursuant to the registration statement and prospectus on or subsequent to such date. 23 When we offer a particular series of securities, we will describe the intended use of the net proceeds from that offering in a prospectus supplement. The actual amount of net proceeds we spend on a particular use will depend on many factors, including, our future capital expenditures, the amount of cash required by our operations, and our future revenue growth, if any. Therefore, we will retain broad discretion in the use of the net proceeds. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. We do not know when or if we will pay dividends. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and investment opportunities. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The public market for our common stock has been characterized by significant price and volume fluctuations. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not decline below its current or historic price ranges. The market price may bear no relationship to the prospects, stage of development, existence of oil and gas reserves, revenues, earnings, assets or potential of our company and may not be indicative of our future business performance. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations. Fluctuations in the price of oil and gas and related international political events can be expected to affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies, sometimes unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: ● actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results, ● changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, ● announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors, ● conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry, ● the success of our operating strategy, and ● the operating and stock performance of other comparable companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. In addition, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Such litigation, if instituted, and irrespective of the outcome of such litigation, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 24 