D. Risk Factors Investing in our American Depositary Shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our American Depositary Shares. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the daily price of our depositary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business We have incurred operating losses and may not be profitable in the future; our plans to maintain and increase liquidity may not be successful. We have been unprofitable to date and expect to incur losses over the next several years as we expand our drug discovery, development programs, pre-clinical testing and as we conduct clinical trials of our product candidates. Our actual cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned and will depend upon numerous factors, including: · the continued progress of our research and development programs; · the timing, scope, results and costs of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; · the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory submissions and approvals; · determinations as to the commercial potential of our product candidates; · our ability to successfully expand our contract manufacturing services; · our ability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements; and · the status and timing of competitive developments. In the years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, we raised A$32,373,336 and A$3,210,069, respectively, from the sale of our ordinary shares pursuant to our at-the-market offering facility. We have not raised any additional funds since June 30, 2014. In addition, in the year ended June 30, 2014, we raised A$4,952,925, through the exercise of previously issued unlisted options. However, to continue to meet our longer term business objectives, which would include advancement of our research and development programs, we will need to secure additional financing. We may also require additional funds to pursue regulatory clearances, defend our intellectual property rights, establish commercial scale manufacturing facilities, develop marketing and sales capabilities and fund operating expenses. We intend to seek such additional funding through public or private financings and/or through licensing of our assets or strategic alliances or other arrangements with corporate partners. The global economic climate could adversely impact our ability to obtain such funding, license our assets or enter into alliances or other arrangements with corporate partners. Any shortfall in funding could result in our having to curtail or cease our operations, including our research and development activities, which would be expected to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred losses in every period since we began operations in 1997 and reported net losses of A$13,329,239, A$7,787,242 and A$5,239,469 during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of June 30, 2014, our accumulated deficit was A$111,260,562. We expect to continue to incur additional operating losses over at least the next several years as we expand our research and development and pre-clinical activities and commence additional clinical trials of PBT2 and new trials for PBT434 and other MPACs. We may never be able to achieve or maintain profitability. 7 We are a development stage company of pharmaceutical products and our success is uncertain. We are a development stage company of our pharmaceutical products which are designed to treat the underlying causes of degeneration of the brain as the aging process progresses. We have not sufficiently advanced the development of any of our products, including our current lead product candidate, PBT2, to market or generate revenues from their commercial application. Our current or any future product candidates, if successfully developed, may not generate sufficient or sustainable revenues to enable us to be profitable. We are faced with uncertainties related to our research. Our research programs are based on scientific hypotheses and experimental approaches that may not lead to desired results. In addition, the timeframe for obtaining proof of principle and other results may be considerably longer than originally anticipated, or may not be possible given time, resource, financial, strategic and collaborator scientific constraints. Success in one stage of testing is not necessarily an indication that the particular program will succeed in later stages of testing and development. It is not possible to predict whether any of the drugs designed for these programs will prove to be safe, effective, and suitable for human use. Each drug will require additional research and development, scale-up, formulation and extensive clinical testing in humans. Unsatisfactory results obtained from a particular study relating to a program may cause us to abandon our commitment to that program or to the lead compound or product candidate being tested. The discovery of toxicities, lack of sufficient efficacy, unacceptable pharmacology, inability to increase scale of manufacture, market attractiveness, regulatory hurdles, competition, as well as other factors, may make our targets, lead therapies or product candidates unattractive for further development or unsuitable for human use, and we may abandon our commitment to that program, target, lead therapy or product candidate. Clinical trials are expensive and time consuming, and their outcome is uncertain. In order to obtain approvals to market a new drug product, we or our potential partners must demonstrate proof of safety and efficacy in humans. To meet these requirements, we or our potential partners will have to conduct extensive preclinical testing and “adequate and well-controlled” clinical trials. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. The length of time may vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate, and often can be several years or more per trial. Even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or initial clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. Clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient safety and effectiveness to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for product candidates employing our technology. Clinical trials that we conduct or that third parties conduct on our behalf may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates. We expect to commence new clinical trials from time to time in the course of our business as our product development work continues. The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for our desired indications could harm the development of that product candidate as well as other product candidates. Any change in, or termination of, our clinical trials could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience delays in our clinical trials that could adversely affect our business and operations. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or whether we will complete any of our clinical trials on schedule or at all. Our ability to commence and complete clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: · government or regulatory delays, including delays in obtaining approvals from applicable hospital ethics committees and internal review boards; · slower than expected patient recruitment; 8 · our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of our new proprietary compound or our other product candidates or matching controls; · unforeseen safety issues; or · lack of efficacy or unacceptable toxicity during the clinical trials. Patient enrollment is a function of, among other things, the nature of the clinical trial protocol, the existence of competing protocols, the size and longevity of the target patient population, and the availability of patients who comply with the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs, delays or termination of the clinical trials. Moreover, we rely on third parties such as clinical research organizations to assist us in clinical trial management functions including; clinical trial database management, statistical analyses, site management and monitoring. Any failure by these third parties to perform under their agreements with us may cause the trials to be delayed or result in a failure to complete the trials. If we experience delays in testing or approvals or if we need to perform more, larger or more complex clinical trials than planned, our product development costs may increase. Significant delays could adversely affect the commercial prospects of our product candidates and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on research institutions to conduct our clinical trials and we may not be able to secure and maintain research institutions to conduct our future trials. We rely on research institutions to conduct our clinical trials. Our reliance upon research institutions, including public and private hospitals and clinics, provides us with less control over the timing and cost of clinical trials and the ability to recruit subjects. If we are unable to reach agreements with suitable research institutions on acceptable terms, or if any resulting agreement is terminated, we may be unable to secure, maintain or quickly replace the research institution with another qualified institution on acceptable terms. We may not be able to complete the development of PBT2 or develop other pharmaceutical products. We may not be able to progress with the development of our current or any future pharmaceutical product candidates to a stage that will attract a suitable collaborative partner for the development of any current or future pharmaceutical product candidates. The projects initially specified in connection with any such collaboration and any associated funding may change or be discontinued as a result of changing interests of either the collaborator or us, and any such change may change the budget for the projects under the collaboration. Additionally, our research may not lead to the discovery of additional product candidates, and any of our current and future product candidates may not be successfully developed, prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards and receive regulatory approval, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs, or be successfully or profitably marketed, either by us or a collaborative partner. The products we develop may not be able to penetrate the potential market for a particular therapy or indication or gain market acceptance among health care providers, patients and third-party payers. We cannot predict if or when the development of PBT2 or any future pharmaceutical product will be completed or commercialized, whether funded by us, as part of a collaboration or through a grant. If we do not obtain the necessary governmental approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our pharmaceutical products. Our ongoing research and development activities are, and the production and marketing of our pharmaceutical product candidates derived from such activities will be, subject to regulation by numerous international regulatory authorities. Prior to marketing, any therapeutic product developed must undergo rigorous pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and, to the extent that any of our pharmaceutical products under development are marketed abroad, by the relevant international regulatory authorities. For example in Australia, principally the Therapeutics Goods Administration, or TGA; the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in the United States; the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, or MHRA, in the United Kingdom; the Medical Products Agency, or MPA, in Sweden; and the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA. These processes can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. Governmental authorities may not grant regulatory approval due to matters arising from pre-clinical animal toxicology, safety pharmacology, drug formulation and purity, clinical side effects or patient risk profiles, or medical contraindications. Failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals would adversely affect the development and commercialization of our pharmaceutical product candidates. We may not be able to obtain the clearances and approvals necessary for clinical testing or for manufacturing and marketing our pharmaceutical product candidates. 9 We will not be able to commercialize any current or future product candidates if we fail to adequately demonstrate their safety, efficacy and superiority over existing therapies. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our pharmaceutical products, we must demonstrate through pre-clinical testing and clinical studies that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans for each target indication. Conducting pre-clinical testing and clinical studies is an expensive, protracted and time-consuming process. Likewise, results from early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in large-scale, later-stage clinical testing. In addition, even though a potential drug product shows promising results in clinical trials, regulatory authorities may not grant the necessary approvals without sufficient safety and efficacy data. We may not be able to undertake further clinical trials of our current and future product candidates as therapies for Alzheimer’s disease, Huntington’s disease, Parkinson’s disease or other indications or to demonstrate the safety and efficacy or superiority of any of these product candidates over existing therapies or other therapies under development, or enter into any collaborative arrangement to commercialize our current or future product candidates on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Clinical trial results that show insufficient safety and efficacy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Positive results in previous clinical trials of PBT2 may not be replicated in future clinical trials of PBT2, which could result in development delays or a failure to obtain marketing approval. Positive results in previous clinical trials of PBT2 may not be predictive of similar results in future clinical trials. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results from the completed pre-clinical studies and clinical trials for PBT2 may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials. Moreover, clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA or EMA/EC approval for their products. We may need to prioritize the development of our most promising candidates at the expense of the development of other products. We may need to prioritize the allocation of development resources and/or funds towards what we believe to be our most promising product or products. The nature of the drug development process is such that there is a constant availability of new information and data which could positively or adversely affect a product in development. We cannot predict how such new information and data may impact in the future the prioritization of the development of our current or future product candidates or that any of our products, regardless of its development stage or the investment of time and funds in its development, will continue to be funded or developed. Our research and development efforts will be seriously jeopardized if we are unable to retain key personnel and cultivate key academic and scientific collaborations. Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued services of our senior management and key scientific personnel. We have entered into employment or consultancy agreements with these individuals. The loss of their services could negatively affect our business. Competition among biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for qualified employees is intense, including competition from larger companies with greater resources, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified management, technical and scientific personnel critical to our success. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions and scientists who conduct research at our request or assist us in formulating our research and development strategies. These academic and scientific collaborators are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. In addition, these collaborators may have arrangements with other companies to assist such companies in developing technologies that may prove competitive to ours. 10 If we are unable to successfully keep pace with technological change or with the advances of our competitors, our technology and products may become obsolete or non-competitive. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our competitors in Australia and elsewhere are numerous and include major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. These competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than any that we are developing, or which would render our technology and products obsolete or non-competitive. Many of these competitors have greater financial and technical resources and manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have much more experience than we do in pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials of new or improved drugs, as well as in obtaining FDA, TGA, MHRA, MPA, EMA and other regulatory approvals. We know that competitors are developing or manufacturing various technologies or products for the treatment of diseases that we have targeted for product development. Some of these competitive products use therapeutic approaches that compete directly with our product candidates. Our ability to further develop our products may be adversely affected if any of our competitors were to succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for their competitive products sooner than us. Acceptance of our products in the marketplace is uncertain, and failure to achieve market acceptance will negatively impact our business and operations. Our current or future products may not achieve market acceptance even if they are approved by regulatory authorities including, the TGA, FDA, EMA or any other regulatory authority. The degree of market acceptance of such products will depend on a number of factors, including: · the receipt and timing of regulatory approvals for the uses that we are studying; · the establishment and demonstration to the medical community of the safety, clinical efficacy or cost-effectiveness of our product candidates and their potential advantages over existing therapeutics and technologies; and · the pricing and reimbursement policies of governments and third-party payors. Physicians, patients, payors or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, use or recommend any of our products. Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technology and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Any future success will depend in large part on whether we can: · obtain and maintain patents to protect our own products and technologies; · obtain licenses to the patented technologies of third parties; · operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties; and 11 · protect our trade secrets, know-how and other confidential information. Patent matters in biotechnology are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, the availability and breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents cannot be predicted. Any of the pending or future patent applications filed by us or on our behalf may not be approved, or we may not develop additional proprietary products or processes that are patentable or that we will be able to license any other patentable products or processes. Our commercial success will also depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringement of patents issued to others. If a court determines that we were infringing any third party patents, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. Licenses required under patents held by third parties may not be made available on terms acceptable to us or at all. To the extent that we are unable to obtain such licenses, we could be foreclosed from the development, export, manufacture or commercialization of the product requiring such license or encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to design around such patents, and any of these circumstances could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have to resort to litigation to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. We may have to defend the validity of our patents in order to protect or enforce our rights against a third party. Third parties may in the future assert against us infringement claims or claims that we have infringed a patent, copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. Any infringement claim, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources and could negatively affect our profitability. While defending our patents, the scope of the claim may be reduced in breadth and inventorship of the claimed subject matter, and proprietary interests in the claimed subject matter may be altered or reduced. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and adverse determinations in any such proceedings could prevent us from developing, manufacturing or commercializing our products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The patent protection for our product candidates may expire before we are able to maximize their commercial value, which may subject us to increased competition and reduce or eliminate our opportunity to generate product revenue. The patents for our product candidates have varying expiration dates and, if these patents expire, we may be subject to increased competition and we may not be able to recover our development costs or market any of our approved products profitably. In some of the larger potential market territories, such as the United States and Europe, patent term extension or restoration may be available to compensate for time taken during aspects of the product’s development and regulatory review. However, such an extension may not be granted, or if granted, the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded during any extension period may not be sufficient. In addition, even though some regulatory authorities may provide some other exclusivity for a product under their own laws and regulations, we may not be able to qualify the product or obtain the exclusive time period. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension/restoration or some other exclusivity, we could be subject to increased competition and our opportunity to establish or maintain product revenue could be substantially reduced or eliminated. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient time to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of our U.S. and non-U.S. patents. We may face difficulties in certain jurisdictions in protecting our intellectual property rights, which may diminish the value of our intellectual property rights in those jurisdictions. The laws of some jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the U.S. and the EU, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in such jurisdictions. If we or our collaboration partners encounter difficulties in protecting, or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting, the intellectual property rights important for our business in such jurisdictions, the value of these rights may be diminished and we may face additional competition from others in those jurisdictions. 12 Many countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of such patent. If we or any of our licensors is forced to grant a license to third parties with respect to any patents relevant to our business, our competitive position may be impaired and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Intellectual property rights do not address all potential threats to our competitive advantage. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations, and may not adequately protect our business, or permit us to maintain our competitive advantage. The following examples are illustrative: · Others may be able to make products that are similar to ours but that are not covered by the claims of the patents that we own. · Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or otherwise circumvent any of our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights. · We or any of our collaboration partners might not have been the first to conceive and reduce to practice the inventions covered by the patents or patent applications that we own, license or will own or license. · We or any of our collaboration partners might not have been the first to file patent applications covering certain of the patents or patent applications that we or they own or have obtained a license, or will own or will have obtained a license. · It is possible that our pending patent applications will not lead to issued patents. · Issued patents that we own may not provide us with any competitive advantage, or may be held invalid or unenforceable, as a result of legal challenges by our competitors. · Our competitors might conduct research and development activities in countries where we do not have patent rights, or in countries where research and development safe harbor laws exist, and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in our major commercial markets. · The patents of third parties or pending or future applications of third parties, if issued, may have an adverse effect on our business. Changes in patent laws or patent jurisprudence could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products or product candidates. As is the case with other biopharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and exploiting patents in the biopharmaceutical industry involve both technological and legal complexity. Therefore, obtaining and exploiting biopharmaceutical patents is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. Such examples include: ● Nautilus, Inc. v. Biosig Instruments, Inc. (2014), where the Court imposed a stricter requirement for clarity of claim language than previously applied by the Federal Circuit, thereby making it easier to invalidate patents for insufficiently apprising the public of the scope of the invention. ● Limelight Networks, Inc. v. Akamai Technologies, Inc. (2014), where the Court articulated a standard for inducement of infringement that makes it more difficult to establish liability for inducing infringement of a multi-step method claim that is performed by multiple parties. ● Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc. (2013), where the Court held that isolated naturally-occurring DNA is patent ineligible subject matter. 13 ● KSR v. Teleflex (2007), where the Court decided unanimously that the Federal Circuit Court had been wrong in taking a narrow view of when an invention is "obvious" and thus cannot be patented. ● EBay Inc. v. MercExchange, LLC (2006), where the Court heightened the standard for an injunction after a finding of patent infringement. ● Merck KGgA v. Integra Lifesciences (2004), where the Court adopted an expansive interpretation of the activities associated with regulatory approval exempt from patent infringement. In addition, the America Invents Act, or AIA, has been recently enacted in the United States, resulting in significant changes to the U.S. patent system. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, the combination of the U.S. Supreme Court decisions and AIA has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. A few highlights of changes to U.S. patent law under the AIA are: ● Under the AIA, a patent is awarded to the "first-inventor-to-file" rather than the first to invent. ● There is a new definition of prior art which removes geographic and language boundaries found in the pre-AIA law. At the same time, certain categories of "secret" prior art have been eliminated. ● The AIA introduced new procedures for challenging the validity of issued patents: post-grant review and inter partes review. ● Patent owners under the AIA may now request supplemental examination of a patent to consider, reconsider, or correct information believed to be relevant to the patent. ● The AIA allows third parties to submit any patent, published application, or publication relevant to examination of a pending patent application with a concise explanation for inclusion during prosecution of the patent application. The "first-inventor-to-file" system and the new definitions of prior art apply to U.S. patent applications with claims having an effective filing date on or after March 16, 2013. Until at least 2034, patent practice will involve both pre-AIA and AIA laws. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that could weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to exploit our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. Similarly, the complexity and uncertainty of European patent laws has also increased in recent years. In addition, the European patent system is relatively stringent in the type of amendments that are allowed during prosecution. Changes in patent law or patent jurisprudence could limit our ability to obtain new patents in the future that may be important for our business. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and protect other proprietary information. We consider proprietary trade secrets and/or confidential know-how and unpatented know-how to be important to our business. We may rely on trade secrets and/or confidential know-how to protect our technology, especially where patent protection is believed by us to be of limited value. However, trade secrets and/or confidential know-how can be difficult to maintain as confidential. To protect this type of information against disclosure or appropriation by competitors, our policy is to require our employees, consultants, contractors and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. However, current or former employees, consultants, contractors and advisers may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors, and confidentiality agreements may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Enforcing a claim that a third-party obtained illegally and is using trade secrets and/or confidential know-how is expensive, time consuming and unpredictable. The enforceability of confidentiality agreements may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. 14 Failure to obtain or maintain trade secrets and/or confidential know-how trade protection could adversely affect our competitive position. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and may even apply for patent protection in respect of the same. If successful in obtaining such patent protection, our competitors could limit our use of our trade secrets and/or confidential know-how. We have limited large scale manufacturing experience with our product candidates. Delays in manufacturing sufficient quantities of such materials to the required standards for pre-clinical and clinical trials may negatively impact our business and operations. We may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates in a cost-effective or timely manner. Manufacturing includes the production, formulation and stability testing of an active pharmaceutical ingredient and its formulation into pharmaceutical products, such as capsules or tablets. Any delays in production would delay our pre-clinical and human clinical trials, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. We may be required to enter into contracting arrangements with third parties to manufacture our product candidates for large-scale, pre-clinical and/or clinical trials. We may not be able to make the transition from laboratory-scale to development-scale or from development-scale to commercial production. We may need to develop additional manufacturing resources, enter into collaborative arrangements with other parties who have established manufacturing capabilities, or have third parties manufacture our products on a contract basis. We may not have access on acceptable terms to the necessary and substantial financing that would be required to scale-up production and develop effective commercial manufacturing processes and technologies. We may not be able to enter into collaborative or contracting arrangements on acceptable terms with parties that will meet our requirements for quality, quantity and timeliness. We expect that we will be required to design and develop new synthetic pathways for most, if not all, of the product candidates that we currently intend to develop or may develop in the future. We cannot predict the success of such efforts, the purity of the products that may be obtained or the nature of the impurities that may result from such efforts. If we are not able to obtain an acceptable purity for any product candidate or an acceptable product specification, pre-clinical and clinical trials would be delayed, which could adversely affect the priority of the development of our product candidates, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot guarantee that the active pharmaceutical ingredient will be suitable for high throughput encapsulation to produce drug products. This may adversely impact the cost of goods or feasibility of market scale manufacture. We are dependent upon a sole manufacturer of our lead compound, PBT2, and on a sole manufacturer to encapsulate the compound and could incur significant costs and delays if we are unable to promptly find a replacement for either of them. At this time, we typically rely on a single manufacturer to develop Good Manufacturing Practice, synthetic processes for our lead compounds. Since 2008, our lead compound, PBT2, has been manufactured by Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Limited, based in Hyderabad, India. This manufacturer enables efficient large scale manufacture of PBT2 to provide drug substance for the current and prospective trials in Alzheimer’s patients and Huntington’s patients. We also rely on a sole manufacturer, Patheon Inc., to encapsulate PBT2. We may seek to find an alternative or back up manufacturer but may not be able to promptly find an alternative or replacement manufacturer without incurring material additional costs and substantial delays. The failure to establish sales, marketing and distribution capability would materially impair our ability to successfully market and sell our pharmaceutical products. We currently have no experience in marketing, sales or distribution of pharmaceutical products. If we develop any commercially marketable pharmaceutical products and decide to perform our own sales and marketing activities, we will require additional management, will need to hire sales and marketing personnel and will require additional capital. Qualified personnel may not be available in adequate numbers or at a reasonable cost. Further, our sales staff may not achieve success in their marketing efforts. Alternatively, we may be required to enter into marketing arrangements with other parties who have established appropriate marketing, sales and distribution capabilities. We may not be able to enter into marketing arrangements with any marketing partner, or if such arrangements are established, our marketing partners may not be able to commercialize our products successfully. Other companies offering similar or substitute products may have well-established and well-funded marketing and sales operations in place that will allow them to market their products more successfully. Failure to establish sufficient marketing capabilities would materially impair our ability to successfully market and sell our pharmaceutical products. 15 If healthcare insurers and other organizations do not pay for our products, or impose limits on reimbursement, our future business may suffer. The drugs we hope to develop may be rejected by the marketplace due to many factors, including cost. The continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce healthcare costs may affect our future revenues and profitability and those of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners, as well as the availability of capital. In Australia and certain foreign markets, the pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is already subject to government control. We expect initiatives for similar government control at both the state and federal level to continue in the United States and elsewhere. The adoption of any such legislative or regulatory proposals could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our ability to commercially exploit our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of our products and related treatment will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other organizations. Third-party payors, such as government and private health insurers, are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. Uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products and in foreign markets, including the United States. If third-party coverage is not available to patients for any of the products we develop, alone or with collaborators, the market acceptance of these products may be reduced, which may adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. In addition, cost containment legislation and reductions in government insurance programs may result in lower prices for our products and could materially adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We may be exposed to product liability claims, which could harm our business. The testing, marketing and sale of human health care products also entails an inherent risk of product liability. We may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit development or commercialization of our products if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims. We have historically obtained no fault compensation insurance for our clinical trials and intend to obtain similar coverage for future clinical trials. Such coverage may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. This may result in our inability to pursue further clinical trials or to obtain adequate protection in the event of a successful claim. We may not be able to obtain product liability insurance in the event of the commercialization of a product or such insurance may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Even if we have adequate insurance coverage, product liability claims or recalls could result in negative publicity or force us to devote significant time, attention and financial resources to those matters. Healthcare reform measures and other statutory or regulatory changes could adversely affect our business. In both the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our business. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “ACA”), enacted in March 2010, substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. With regard to pharmaceutical products, among other things, the ACA is expected to expand and increase industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs and make changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare D program. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are subject to extensive regulation, and from time to time legislative bodies and governmental agencies consider changes to such regulations that could have significant impact on industry participants. For example, in light of certain highly-publicized safety issues regarding certain drugs that had received marketing approval, the U.S. Congress has considered various proposals regarding drug safety, including some which would require additional safety studies and monitoring and could make drug development more costly. Additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to safety or other aspects of drug development may be enacted in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 16 Breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters or terrorist attacks could have an adverse effect on our business. Cyber-attacks or other breaches of network or information technology (IT) security, natural disasters, terrorist acts or acts of war may cause equipment failures or disrupt our research and development operations. In particular, both unsuccessful and successful cyber-attacks on companies have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. Such an event may result in our inability, or the inability of our partners, to operate the research and development facilities, which even if the event is for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or significant damage to our experiments and trials. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. In addition, a failure to protect employee confidential data against breaches of network or IT security could result in damage to our reputation. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have been subject, and will likely continue to be subject, to attempts to breach the security of our networks and IT infrastructure through cyber-attack, malware, computer viruses and other means of unauthorized access. However, to date, we have not been subject to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, resulted in a material impact to our operations or financial condition. We expect to expand our drug development, regulatory and business development capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and consultants and the scope of our operations, particularly in the areas of drug development, regulatory affairs and business development. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources and the limited experience of our management team in managing a company with such anticipated growth, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations, and have a materially adverse effect on our business. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could adversely affect our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares and ADRs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, governing internal control and procedures for financial reporting, have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our assessments of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could adversely affect our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares and ADRs. 17 Risks Relating to Our Securities Our stock price may be volatile and the U.S. trading market for our ADSs is limited. The market price for our securities, like that of the securities of other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, has fluctuated substantially and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. During the last two fiscal years ended June 30, 2014 and subsequently until October 30, 2014, the market price for our ordinary shares on the ASX has ranged from as low as A$0.14 to a high of A$1.37 and the market price of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Capital Market has ranged from as low as US$1.47 to a high of US$13.29. The market price for our securities has been affected by both broad market developments and announcements relating to actual or potential developments concerning products under development. We believe that the following factors, in addition to other risk factors described above and elsewhere in this annual report, will continue to significantly affect the market price of our ordinary shares: · the results of pre-clinical testing and clinical trials by us and our competitors; · developments concerning research and development, manufacturing, and marketing alliances or collaborations by us and our competitors; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us and our competitors; · determinations regarding our patent applications, patents and those of others; · publicity regarding actual or potential results relating to medicinal products under development by us and our competitors; · proposed governmental regulations and developments in Australia, the United States and elsewhere; · litigation; · economic and other external factors; and · period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have especially affected the stock market price of many high technology and healthcare related companies, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and, in many cases, are unrelated to the operating performance of the particular companies. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession, interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, could adversely affect the market price of our securities. Ownership interest in our company may be diluted as a result of additional financings. We may seek to raise funds from time to time in public or private issuances of equity, and such financings may take place in the near future or over the longer term. In March 2011, we issued 27,200,000 ordinary shares and options to purchase an additional 6,800,000 ordinary shares in a private placement. In May 2011, we registered US$50,000,000 of securities for public sale pursuant to our registration statement on Form F-3 filed on May 17, 2011. In July 2011, we issued a prospectus under such registration statement providing for the sale of up to 50 million ordinary shares represented by 5 million ADSs pursuant to an “At-The-Market” facility. In August 2013 we issued a prospectus providing for the sale of up to US$47,184,000 of our ordinary shares under an amended “At-The-Market” facility. From its inception and through October 27, 2014, we issued a total of 122,158,760 ordinary shares through our “at-the-market” facility. In October 2012 and April 2013, we issued 32,500,000 and 25,641,030 ordinary shares, respectively, in private placements and in May 2013, we issued 10,370,488 ordinary shares in a share purchase plan offer. Without shareholder approval, we may not issue more than 15% of our outstanding ordinary shares in any twelve month period other than by a pro rata rights offering or a share purchase plan offer (of shares with a value at the issue price of up to A$15,000 per shareholder to a maximum of 30% of our outstanding shares) in each case to the then existing shareholders in accordance with the listing rules of the ASX. Sales of our ADSs offered through our “At-The-Market” facility and future equity offerings may result in substantial dilution to the interests of our current shareholders. The sale of a substantial number of securities to investors, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. 18 There is a substantial risk that we are a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which will subject our U.S. investors to adverse tax rules. Holders of our ADSs who are U.S. residents face income tax risks. There is a substantial risk that we are passive foreign investment company, commonly referred to as a PFIC. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of our ADSs and would likely cause a reduction in the value of such ADRs. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, cash is considered to be an asset that produces passive income. As a result of our substantial cash position and the decline in the value of our stock, we believe that we became a PFIC during the taxable year ended June 30, 2005, and once again qualified as a PFIC during each of the following fiscal years. We believe that we once again will be classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ended June 30, 2014. If we are classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules will apply to U.S. holders owning ADRs. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. United States residents should carefully read “Item 10.E. Additional Information - Taxation, United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ADSs. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our ordinary shares. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment in our company. The success of your investment will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation of the market price of our ordinary shares, which is uncertain and unpredictable. There is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your ordinary shares. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are quoted in Australian dollars on the ASX and our ADSs have traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market in United States dollars. Movements in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate may adversely affect the U.S. dollar price of our ordinary shares. In the past year the Australian dollar has generally appreciated against the U.S. dollar. Any continuation of this trend may positively affect the U.S. dollar price of our ordinary shares, even if the price of our ordinary shares in Australian dollars increases or remains unchanged. However, this trend may not continue and may be reversed. If the Australian dollar weakens against the U.S. dollar, the U.S. dollar price of the ordinary shares could decline, even if the price of our ordinary shares in Australian dollars increases or remains unchanged. 19 Risks Relating to our Location in Australia It may be difficult to enforce a judgment in the United States against us and our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Australia or serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Australia. All of our executive officers and most of our directors are non-residents of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws in an Australian court against us or any of those persons or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Australia. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Stock Market Rules, with regard to, among other things, the composition of the board of directors and its committees, director nomination process, compensation of officers and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may choose to follow Australian law instead of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules that require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. As of the date of this report, we have not elected to follow any home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements. Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our ordinary shares. We are incorporated in Australia and are subject to the takeovers laws of Australia. Among other things, we are subject to the Australian Corporations Act 2001, or the Corporations Act. Subject to a range of exceptions, the Corporations Act prohibits the acquisition of a direct or indirect interest in our issued voting shares if the acquisition of that interest will lead to a person’s voting power in us increasing from 20% or below to more than 20%, or increasing from a starting point that is above 20% and below 90%. Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our ordinary shares. This may have the ancillary effect of entrenching our board of directors and may deprive or limit our shareholders’ strategic opportunities to sell their ordinary shares and may restrict the ability of our shareholders to obtain a premium from such transactions. Our Constitution and other Australian laws and regulations applicable to us may adversely affect our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our shareholders. As an Australian company we are subject to different corporate requirements than a corporation organized under the laws of the United States. Our Constitution, as well as the Corporations Act, set forth various rights and obligations that are unique to us as an Australian company. These requirements operate differently than from many U.S. companies and may limit or otherwise adversely affect our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our shareholders. For more information, you should carefully review the summary of these matters set forth under the section entitled, “Item 10.B — Additional Information — Memorandum and Articles of Association” as well as our Constitution. 20 