Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and may in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. Except for the historical information in this report, the matters contained in this report include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have incurred significant operating losses in the past and may not be profitable in the future. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we had a net loss of $3.5 million and an income from operations of $4.5 million and for the year ended December 31, 2006 we had a net loss of $9.2 million and a loss from operations of $5.9 million. We have an accumulated deficit of $68.7 million as of December 31, 2007. It is not certain that we will become profitable, or that, if we become profitable, our profitability will increase. In addition, we expect our costs and operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. If our revenue does not grow to offset these expected increased costs and operating expenses, we may not be profitable. You should not consider recent quarterly revenue growth as indicative of our future performance. In fact, in future quarters we may not have any revenue growth and our revenue could decline. Furthermore, if our costs and operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance will be adversely affected. Our operating results have in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline substantially. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate, and if we fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Moreover, our stock price may be 20 Table of Contents based on expectations of our future performance that may be unrealistic or that may not be met. Some of the important factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include: • the extent to which our services achieve or maintain market acceptance; • our ability to introduce new services and enhancements to our existing services on a timely basis; • new competitors and introduction of enhanced products and services from new or existing competitors; • the length of our contracting and implementation cycles; • the financial condition of our current and potential clients; • changes in client budgets and procurement policies; • amount and timing of our investment in research and development activities; • technical difficulties or interruptions in our services; • our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, including the rate of expansion of our sales force; • changes in the regulatory environment related to healthcare; • regulatory compliance costs; • the timing, size and integration success of potential future acquisitions; and • unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation and settlement costs. Many of these factors are not within our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our operating results to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. A significant portion of our operating expense is relatively fixed in nature and planned expenditures are based in part on expectations regarding future revenue. Accordingly, unexpected revenue shortfalls may decrease our gross margins and could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. In addition, our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially either suddenly or over time. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and if we are not able to compete effectively, our business and operating results will be harmed. The provision by third parties of revenue cycle services to physician practices has historically been dominated by small service providers who offer highly individualized services and a high degree of specialized knowledge applicable in many cases to a limited medical specialty, a limited set of payers or a limited geographical area. We anticipate that the software, statistical and database tools that are available to such service providers will continue to become more sophisticated and effective and that demand for our services could be adversely affected. Revenue cycle software for physician practices has historically been dominated by large, well-financed and technologically-sophisticated entities that have focused on software solutions some of these entities are now offering “on-demand” services or “software-as-a-service” model under which software is centrally administered and administrative services may be provided on a vendor basis. The size and financial strength of these entities is increasing as a result of continued consolidation in both the information technology and healthcare industries. We expect large integrated technology companies to become more active in our markets, both through acquisition and internal investment. As costs fall and technology improves, increased market saturation may change the competitive landscape in favor of competitors with greater scale than we currently possess. 21 Table of Contents Some of our current large competitors, such as GE Healthcare, Sage Software Healthcare, Inc., Misys Healthcare Systems, Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc., Quality Systems, Inc., Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc. and McKesson Corp. have greater name recognition, longer operating histories and significantly greater resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established, and may in the future establish, cooperative relationships with vendors of complementary products, technologies or services to increase the availability of their products to the marketplace. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances may emerge that have greater market share, larger client bases, more widely adopted proprietary technologies, greater marketing expertise, greater financial resources and larger sales forces than we have, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Further, in light of these advantages, even if our services are more effective than the product or service offerings of our competitors, current or potential clients might accept competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our services. Increased competition is likely to result in pricing pressures, which could negatively impact our sales, profitability or market share. In addition to new niche vendors, who offer stand-alone products and services, we face competition from existing enterprise vendors, including those currently focused on software solutions, which have information systems in place at clients in our target market. These existing enterprise vendors may now, or in the future, offer or promise products or services with less functionality than our services, but which offer ease of integration with existing systems and which leverage existing vendor relationships. The market for our services is immature and volatile, and if it does not develop or if it develops more slowly than we expect, the growth of our business will be harmed. The market for internet-based business services is relatively new and unproven, and it is uncertain whether these services will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of enterprises, large and small, to increase their use of on-demand business services in general, and for their revenue and clinical cycles in particular. Many enterprises have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate established enterprise software into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to switch to an on-demand application service. Furthermore, some enterprises may be reluctant or unwilling to use on-demand application services, because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with security capabilities, among other things, of the technology delivery model associated with these services. If enterprises do not perceive the benefits of our services, then the market for these services may not develop at all, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would significantly adversely affect our operating results. In addition, as a new company in this unproven market, we have limited insight into trends that may develop and affect our business. We may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our business. If any of these risks occur, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we do not continue to innovate and provide services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. Our success depends on providing services that the medical community uses to improve business performance and quality of service to patients. Our competitors are constantly developing products and services that may become more efficient or appealing to our clients. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing services and introduce new high-quality services that clients will want. If we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our services on a timely basis, we may lose clients. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our clients, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity or are not effectively brought to market. As technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer results that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar to or better than those generated by our services. This may force us to compete on additional service attributes and to expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. 22 Table of Contents As a result of our variable sales and implementation cycles, we may be unable to recognize revenue to offset expenditures, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations or otherwise harm our future operating results. The sales cycle for our services can be variable, typically ranging from three to five months from initial contact to contract execution. During the sales cycle, we expend time and resources, and we do not recognize any revenue to offset such expenditures. Our implementation cycle is also variable, typically ranging from three to five months from contract execution to completion of implementation. Some of our new-client set-up projects are complex and require a lengthy delay and significant implementation work. Each client’s situation is different, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise as a result of failure by us or by the client to meet our respective implementation responsibilities. In some cases, especially those involving larger clients, the sales cycle and the implementation cycle may exceed the typical ranges by substantial margins. During the implementation cycle, we expend substantial time, effort and financial resources implementing our service, but accounting principles do not allow us to recognize the resulting revenue until the service has been implemented, at which time we begin recognition of implementation revenue over the life of the contract. This could harm our future operating results. After a client contract is signed, we provide an implementation process for the client during which appropriate connections and registrations are established and checked, data is loaded into our athenaNet system, data tables are set up and practice personnel are given initial training. The length and details of this implementation process vary widely from client to client. Typically implementation of larger clients takes longer than implementation for smaller clients. Implementation for a given client may be cancelled. Our contracts typically provide that they can be terminated for any reason or for no reason in 90 days. Despite the fact that we typically require a deposit in advance of implementation, some clients have cancelled before our service has been started. In addition, implementation may be delayed or the target dates for completion may be extended into the future for a variety of reasons, including to meet the needs and requirements of the client, because of delays with payer processing and because of the volume and complexity of the implementations awaiting our work. If implementation periods are extended, our provision of the revenue cycle or clinical cycle services upon which we realize most of our revenues will be delayed and our financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, cancellation of any implementation after it has begun may involve loss to us of time, effort and expenses invested in the cancelled implementation process and lost opportunity for implementing paying clients in that same period of time. These factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, particularly in the near term and during any period in which our sales volume is relatively low. As a result, in future quarters our operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which event our stock price would likely decrease. If the revenue of our clients decreases, our revenue will decrease. Under most of our client contracts, we base our charges on a percentage of the revenue that the client realizes while using our services. Many factors may lead to decrease in client revenue, including: • interruption of client access to our system for any reason; • our failure to provide services in a timely or high-quality manner; • failure of our clients to adopt or maintain effective business practices; • actions by third-party payers of medical claims to reduce reimbursement; • government regulations and government or other payer actions reducing or delaying reimbursement; and • reduction of client revenue resulting from increased competition or other changes in the marketplace for physician services. If the clients’ revenue decreases for any reason, our revenue will likely decrease. 23 Table of Contents If participants in our channel marketing and sales lead programs do not maintain appropriate relationships with potential clients, our sales accomplished with their help or data may be unwound and our payments to them may be deemed improper. We maintain a series of relationships with third parties that we term channel relationships. These relationships take different forms under different contractual language. Some relationships help us identify sales leads. Other relationships permit third parties to act as value-added resellers or as independent sales representatives for our services. In some cases, for example in the case of some membership organizations, these relationships involve endorsement of our services as well as other marketing activities. In each of these cases, we require contractually that the third party disclose information to and/or limit their relationships with potential purchasers of our services for regulatory compliance reasons. If these third parties do not comply with these regulatory requirements or if our requirements are deemed insufficient, sales accomplished with the data or help that they have provided as well as the channel relationship themselves may not be enforceable, may be unwound and may be deemed to violate relevant laws or regulations. Third parties that, despite our requirements, exercise undue influence over decisions by prospective clients, occupy positions with obligations of fidelity or fiduciary obligations to prospective clients, or who offer bribes or kickbacks to prospective clients or their employees, may be committing wrongful or illegal acts that could render any resulting contract between us and the client unenforceable or in violation of relevant laws or regulations. Any misconduct by these third parties with respect to prospective clients, any failure to follow contractual requirements or any insufficiency of those contractual requirements may result in allegations that we have encouraged or participated in wrongful or illegal behavior and that payments to such third parties under our channel contracts are improper. This misconduct could subject us to civil or criminal claims and liabilities, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, could require us to refund portions of our services fees and could adversely effect our revenue and operating margin. Even an unsuccessful challenge of our activities could result in adverse publicity, require costly response from us, impair our ability to attract and maintain clients and lead analysts or potential investors to reduce their expectations of our performance, resulting in reduction to our market price. Failure to manage our rapid growth effectively could increase our expenses, decrease our revenue and prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We have been experiencing a period of rapid growth. To manage our anticipated future growth effectively, we must continue to maintain and may need to enhance our information technology infrastructure, financial and accounting systems and controls and manage expanded operations in geographically-distributed locations. We also must attract, train and retain a significant number of qualified sales and marketing personnel, professional services personnel, software engineers, technical personnel and management personnel. Failure to manage our rapid growth effectively could lead us to over-invest or under-invest in technology and operations, could result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, systems or controls, could give rise to operational mistakes, losses, loss of productivity or business opportunities, and could result in loss of employees and reduced productivity of remaining employees. Our growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of new services. If our management is unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our revenue could decline or may grow more slowly than expected, and we may be unable to implement our business strategy. We depend upon a third-party service provider for important processing functions. If this third-party provider does not fulfill its contractual obligations or chooses to discontinue its services, our business and operations could be disrupted and our operating results would be harmed. We have entered into a service agreement with Vision Healthsource, a subsidiary of Perot Systems Corporation, to provide data entry and other services from facilities located in India and the Philippines to support our client service operations. Among other things, this provider processes critical claims data and patient statements. If these services fail or are of poor quality, our business, reputation and operating results could be harmed. Failure of the service provider to perform satisfactorily could result in client dissatisfaction, disrupt our operations and adversely affect operating results. With respect to this service provider, we have 24 Table of Contents significantly less control over the systems and processes than if we maintained and operated them ourselves, which increases our risk. In some cases, functions necessary to our business are performed on proprietary systems and software to which we have no access. If we need to find an alternative source for performing these functions, we may have to expend significant money, resources and time to develop the alternative, and if this development is not accomplished in a timely manner and without significant disruption to our business, we may be unable to fulfill our responsibilities to clients or the expectations of clients, with the attendant potential for liability claims and a loss of business reputation, loss of ability to attract or maintain clients and reduction of our revenue or operating margin. Various risks could interrupt international operations, exposing us to significant costs. We have contracted with companies operating in Canada, India and the Philippines for various services, including data entry, outgoing calls to payers, data classification and software development. In addition, in August 2005, we established a subsidiary in Chennai, India to conduct research and development activities. International operations expose us to potential operational disruptions as a result of currency valuations, political turmoil and labor issues. Any such disruptions may have a negative effect on our profits, on client satisfaction and on our ability to attract or maintain clients. Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly-skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. To continue to execute on our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly-qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services and senior sales executives. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly-skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. Volatility in the price of our stock may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. Furthermore, the new requirement to expense stock options may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock option awards that job candidates require to join our company. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. If we acquire companies or technologies in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results and the value of our common stock. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire, enter into joint ventures with, or make investments in complementary companies, services and technologies in the future. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in identifying and acquiring products, technologies or businesses that will help our business; • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; • diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations; • risk of entering new markets in which we have little to no experience; and • delays in client purchases due to uncertainty and the inability to maintain relationships with clients of the acquired businesses. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate, and management resources and attention may be diverted from other necessary or valuable activities. 25 Table of Contents If we are required to collect sales and use taxes on the services we sell in additional jurisdictions, we may be subject to liability for past sales and our future sales may decrease. We may lose sales or incur significant expenses should states be successful in imposing state sales and use taxes. A successful assertion by one or more states that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers and otherwise harm our business. Each state has different rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. We review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe our services are subject to sales and use taxes in a particular state, voluntarily engage state tax authorities in order to determine how to comply with their rules and regulations. For example, in April 2006 we entered into a settlement agreement with the Ohio Department of Taxation after it determined that we owed sales and use taxes for sales made in the State of Ohio between July 2005 and January 2006. In connection with this settlement we paid the State of Ohio $0.2 million in taxes, interest and penalties. Additionally, in November 2004, we began paying sales and use taxes in the State of Texas. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to sales and use taxes or related penalties for past sales in states where we believe no compliance is necessary. Vendors of services, like us, are typically held responsible by taxing authorities for the collection and payment of any applicable sales and similar taxes. If one or more taxing authorities determines that taxes should have, but have not, been paid with respect to our services, we may be liable for past taxes in addition to taxes going forward. Liability for past taxes may also include very substantial interest and penalty charges. Our client contracts provide that our clients must pay all applicable sales and similar taxes. Nevertheless, clients may be reluctant to pay back taxes and may refuse responsibility for interest or penalties associated with those taxes. If we are required to collect and pay back taxes and the associated interest and penalties and if our clients fail or refuse to reimburse us for all or a portion of these amounts, we will have incurred unplanned expenses that may be substantial. Moreover, imposition of such taxes on our services going forward will effectively increase the cost of such services to our clients and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing clients or to gain new clients in the areas in which such taxes are imposed. We may also become subject to tax audits or similar procedures in states where we already pay sales and use taxes. For example, in October 2007, we received an audit notification from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Department of Revenue requesting materials relating to the amount of use tax the Company paid on account of purchases by the Company for the audit periods between January 1, 2004 and December 31, 2006. The audit is ongoing as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. During the fourth quarter of 2007, we accrued a liability of approximately $50,000 in connection with this ongoing audit. Although we do not think the impact of this particular audit will be material to us, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. The assessment of taxes, interest and penalties as a result of audits, litigation or otherwise, could be materially adverse to our current and future results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to adequately protect, and we may incur significant costs in enforcing, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent and unfair competition laws, as well as license and access agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring certain of our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, noncompetition and assignment of inventions agreements. Our attempts to protect our intellectual property may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. While we have six U.S. patent applications pending, we currently have no issued patents and may be unable to obtain meaningful patent protection for our technology. We have received a final office action rejecting application on our oldest and broadest application and have filed a request for continued examination, along with a response and revised claims with respect to that patent. In addition, if any patents are issued in the future, they may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Agreement terms that address non-competition are difficult to enforce in many jurisdictions and may not be enforceable in any 26 Table of Contents particular case. To the extent that our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected, third parties might gain access to our proprietary information, develop and market products or services similar to ours, or use trademarks similar to ours, each of which could materially harm our business. Existing U.S. federal and state intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. Moreover, the laws of other countries in which we now or may in the future conduct operations or contract for services may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. Further, our platform incorporates open source software components that are licensed to us under various public domain licenses. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses and therefore the potential impact of such terms on our business is somewhat unknown. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could materially harm our business. In addition, if we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. Any litigation that may be necessary in the future could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Moreover, our business involves the systematic gathering and analysis of data about the requirements and behaviors of payers and other third parties, some or all of which may be claimed to be confidential or proprietary. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties claiming that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others. For example, in 2005, Billingnetwork Patent, Inc. sued us in Florida federal court alleging infringement of its patent issued in 2002 entitled “Integrated Internet Facilitated Billing, Data Processing and Communications System.” We have moved to dismiss that case and oral argument on that motion was heard by the court in March 2006. We are awaiting further action from the court at this time. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims of rights against their use. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, could divert management attention from executing our business plan and could require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, many of our contracts contain warranties with respect to intellectual property rights, and some require us to indemnify our clients for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling on such a claim. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from such a claim could require us to pay substantial amounts of money or obtain a license to continue to use the technology or information that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology or information. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, from third parties asserting an infringement claim; that we would be able to develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all; or that we would be able to obtain a license to use a suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our clients to continue using, our affected services. Accordingly, an adverse determination could prevent us from offering our services to others. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our clients for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling for such a claim. We are bound by exclusivity provisions that restrict our ability to enter into certain sales and marketing relationships in order to market and sell our services. Our marketing and sales agreement with Worldmed Shared Services, Inc. (d/b/a PSS World Medical Shared Services, Inc.), or PSS, restricts us during the term of the agreement from certain sales and marketing relationships, including relationships with certain competitors of PSS and certain distributors and manufacturers of medical, surgical or pharmaceutical supplies. This restriction may make it more difficult for us to realize 27 Table of Contents sales, distribution and income opportunities with certain potential clients, in particular small physician practices, which could adversely affect our operating results. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges or opportunities, including the need to develop new services or enhance our existing service, enhance our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Our loan agreements contain operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities. We have loan agreements that provide for up to $16.0 million of total borrowings, of which $1.4 million was outstanding at December 31, 2007. Borrowings are secured by substantially all of our assets including our intellectual property. Our loan agreements restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • make investments; • sell assets; • pay dividends or make distributions on and, in certain cases, repurchase our stock; or • consolidate or merge with other entities. In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet specified minimum financial measurements. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in these credit facilities, as well as any future financing agreements that we may enter into, may restrict our ability to finance our operations, engage in business activities or expand or fully pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the loan agreement, which could cause all of the outstanding indebtedness under both credit facilities to become immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. We will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Global Market, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and 28 Table of Contents regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in 2008, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Global Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Current and future litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our clients in connection with commercial disputes and employment claims made by our current or former employees. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, overall financial condition and operating results. In addition, legal claims that have not yet been asserted against us may be asserted in the future. Insurance may not cover such claims, may not be sufficient for one or more such claims and may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs thereby reducing our operating results and leading analysts or potential investors to reduce their expectations of our performance resulting in a reduction in the trading price of our stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SERVICE OFFERINGS Our proprietary software or our services may not operate properly, which could damage our reputation, give rise to claims against us or divert application of our resources from other purposes, any of which could harm our business and operating results. Proprietary software development is time-consuming, expensive and complex. Unforeseen difficulties can arise. We may encounter technical obstacles, and it is possible that we discover additional problems that prevent our proprietary athenaNet application from operating properly. If athenaNet does not function reliably or fails to achieve client expectations in terms of performance, clients could assert liability claims against us and/or attempt to cancel their contracts with us. This could damage our reputation and impair our ability to attract or maintain clients. Moreover, information services as complex as those we offer have in the past contained, and may in the future develop or contain, undetected defects or errors. We cannot assure you that material performance problems or defects in our services will not arise in the future. Errors may result from receipt, entry or interpretation of patient information or from interface of our services with legacy systems and data which we did not develop and the function of which is outside of our control. Despite testing, defects or errors may arise in our existing or new software or service processes. Because changes in payer requirements and practices are frequent and sometimes difficult to determine except through trial and error, we are continuously discovering defects and errors in our software and service processes compared against these requirements and practices. These defects and errors and any failure by us to identify and address them could result in loss of revenue or market share, liability to clients or others, failure to achieve market acceptance or expansion, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation and increased service and maintenance costs. Defects or errors in our software and service processes might discourage existing or potential clients from purchasing services 29 Table of Contents from us. Correction of defects or errors could prove to be impossible or impracticable. The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors or in responding to resulting claims or liability may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, clients relying on our services to collect, manage and report clinical, business and administrative data may have a greater sensitivity to service errors and security vulnerabilities than clients of software products in general. We market and sell services that, among other things, provide information to assist care providers in tracking and treating ill patients. Any operational delay in or failure of our technology or service processes may result in the disruption of patient care and could cause harm to our business and operating results. Our clients or their patients may assert claims against us in the future alleging that they suffered damages due to a defect, error or other failure of our software or service processes. A product liability claim or errors or omissions claim could subject us to significant legal defense costs and adverse publicity regardless of the merits or eventual outcome of such a claim. If our security measures are breached or fail and unauthorized access is obtained to a client’s data, our service may be perceived as not being secure, clients may curtail or stop using our service and we may incur significant liabilities. Our service involves the storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information and protected health information of patients. Because of the sensitivity of this information, security features of our software are very important. If our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, insufficiency, defective design or otherwise, someone may be able to obtain unauthorized access to client or patient data. As a result, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could face damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations and significant costs for remediation and remediation efforts to prevent future occurrences. We rely upon our clients as users of our system for key activities to promote security of the system and the data within it, such as administration of client-side access credentialing and control of client-side display of data. On occasion, our clients have failed to perform these activities. Failure of clients to perform these activities may result in claims against us that this reliance was misplaced, which could expose us to significant expense and harm to our reputation. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. In addition, our clients may authorize or enable third parties to access their client data or the data of their patients on our systems. Because we do not control such access, we cannot ensure the complete propriety of that access or integrity or security of such data in our systems. Failure by our clients to obtain proper permissions and waivers may result in claims against us or may limit or prevent our use of data which could harm our business. We require our clients to provide necessary notices and to obtain necessary permissions and waivers for use and disclosure of the information that we receive, and we require contractual assurances from them that they have done so and will do so. If they do not obtain necessary permissions and waivers, then our use and disclosure of information that we receive from them or on their behalf may be limited or prohibited by state or federal privacy laws or other laws. This could impair our functions, processes and databases that reflect, contain or are based upon such data and may prevent use of such data. In addition, this could interfere with or prevent creation or use of rules, analyses or other data-driven activities that benefit us. Moreover, we may be subject to claims or liability for use or disclosure of information by reason of lack of valid notice, permission or waiver. These claims or liabilities could subject us to unexpected costs and adversely affect our operating results. 30 Table of Contents Various events could interrupt clients’ access to athenaNet, exposing us to significant costs. The ability to access athenaNet is critical to our clients’ cash flow and business viability. Our operations and facilities are vulnerable to interruption and/or damage from a number of sources, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: (i) power loss and telecommunications failures; (ii) fire, flood, hurricane and other natural disasters; (iii) software and hardware errors, failures or crashes in our own systems or in other systems; and (iv) computer viruses, hacking and similar disruptive problems in our own systems and in other systems. We attempt to mitigate these risks through various means including redundant infrastructure, disaster recovery plans, separate test systems and change control and system security measures, but our precautions will not protect against all potential problems. If clients’ access is interrupted because of problems in the operation of our facilities, we could be exposed to significant claims by clients or their patients, particularly if the access interruption is associated with problems in the timely delivery of funds due to clients or medical information relevant to patient care. Our plans for disaster recovery and business continuity rely upon third-party providers of related services, and if those vendors fail us at a time that our systems are not operating correctly, we could incur a loss of revenue and liability for failure to fulfill our obligations. Any significant instances of system downtime could negatively affect our reputation and ability to retain clients and sell our services which would adversely impact our revenues. In addition, retention and availability of patient care and physician reimbursement data are subject to federal and state laws governing record retention, accuracy and access. Some laws impose obligations on our clients and on us to produce information to third parties and to amend or expunge data at their direction. Our failure to meet these obligations may result in liability which could increase our costs and reduce our operating results. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data-hosting facilities could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we serve our clients from a third-party data-hosting facility located in Bedford, Massachusetts, operated by Sentinel Properties-Bedford, LLC. As part of our current disaster recovery arrangements, a subset of our production environment and client data with respect to scheduling is currently replicated in a separate standby facility located in Chicago, Illinois. We do not control the operation of any of these facilities, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at both facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Even with the disaster recovery arrangements, our service could be interrupted. We rely on Internet infrastructure, bandwidth providers, data center providers, other third parties and our own systems for providing services to our users, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties or our own systems could expose us to litigation and negatively impact our relationships with users, adversely affecting our brand and our business. Our ability to deliver our internet-based services is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet by third parties. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable Internet access and services. Our services are designed to operate without interruption in accordance with our service level commitments. However, we have experienced and expect that we will in the future experience interruptions and delays in services and availability from time to time. We rely on internal systems as well as third-party vendors, including data center providers and bandwidth providers, to provide our services. We do not maintain redundant systems or facilities for some of these services. In the event of a catastrophic event with respect to one or more of these systems or facilities, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our relationship with users. To operate without interruption, both we and our service providers must guard against: • damage from fire, power loss and other natural disasters; • communications failures; 31 Table of Contents • software and hardware errors, failures and crashes; • security breaches, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and • other potential interruptions. Any disruption in the network access or co-location services provided by these third-party providers or any failure of or by these third-party providers or our own systems to handle current or higher volume of use could significantly harm our business. We exercise limited control over these third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services or our own systems could negatively impact our relationships with users and adversely affect our business and could expose us to third-party liabilities. Although we maintain insurance for our business, the coverage under our policies may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost. The reliability and performance of the Internet may be harmed by increased usage or by denial-of-service attacks. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damages to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage as well as the availability of the Internet to us for delivery of our internet-based services. We rely on third-party computer hardware and software that may be difficult to replace or which could cause errors or failures of our service which could damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract and maintain clients and decrease our revenue. We rely on computer hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties in order to offer our service, including database software from Oracle Corporation. These licenses are generally commercially available on varying terms, however it is possible that this hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could result in delays in the provisioning of our service until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party hardware or software could result in errors or a failure of our service which could damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract and maintain clients and decrease our revenue. We are subject to the effect of payer and provider conduct which we cannot control and which could damage our reputation with clients and result in liability claims that increase our expenses. We offer certain electronic claims submission services as part of our service, and we rely on content from clients, payers and others. While we have implemented certain features and safeguards designed to maximize the accuracy and completeness of claims content, these features and safeguards may not be sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims data from being submitted to payers. Should inaccurate claims data be submitted to payers, we may experience poor operational results and may be subject to liability claims which could damage our reputation with clients and result in liability claims that increase our expenses. If our services fail to provide accurate and timely information, or if our content or any other element of our service is associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, we could have liability to clients, clinicians or patients which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our software, content and services are used to assist clinical decision-making and provide information about patient medical histories and treatment plans. If our software, content or services fail to provide accurate and timely information or are associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, then clients, clinicians or their patients could assert claims against us that could result in substantial costs to us, harm our reputation in the industry and cause demand for our services to decline. 32 Table of Contents Our proprietary athenaClinicals service is utilized in clinical decision-making, provides access to patient medical histories and assists in creating patient treatment plans including the issuance of prescription drugs. If our athenaClinicals service fails to provide accurate and timely information, or if our content or any other element of our service is associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, we could have liability to clients, clinicians or patients. The assertion of such claims and ensuing litigation, regardless of its outcome could result in substantial cost to us, divert management’s attention from operations, damage our reputation and decrease market acceptance of our services. We attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages and to require that our clients assume responsibility for medical care and approve key system rules, protocols and data. Despite these precautions, the allocations of responsibility and limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable, may not be binding upon patients or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability and insurance coverage, but this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us. In addition, the insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. One or more large claims could exceed our available insurance coverage. Our proprietary software may contain errors or failures that are not detected until after the software is introduced or updates and new versions are released. It is challenging for us to test our software for all potential problems because it is difficult to simulate the wide variety of computing environments or treatment methodologies that our clients may deploy or rely upon. From time to time we have discovered defects or errors in our software, and such defects or errors can be expected to appear in the future. Defects and errors that are not timely detected and remedied could expose us to risk of liability to clients, clinicians and patients and cause delays in introduction of new services, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications or decrease market acceptance or client satisfaction with our services. If any of these risks occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be liable for use of incorrect or incomplete data we provide which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We store and display data for use by healthcare providers in treating patients. Our clients or third parties provide us with most of these data. If these data are incorrect or incomplete or if we make mistakes in the capture or input of these data, adverse consequences, including death, may occur and give rise to product liability and other claims against us. In addition, a court or government agency may take the position that our storage and display of health information exposes us to personal injury liability or other liability for wrongful delivery or handling of healthcare services or erroneous health information. While we maintain insurance coverage, we cannot assure that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATION Government regulation of healthcare creates risks and challenges with respect to our compliance efforts and our business strategies. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Existing and new laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, could cause us to incur additional costs and could restrict our operations. Many healthcare laws are complex, and their application to specific services and relationships may not be clear. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the healthcare information services that we provide, and these laws and regulations may be applied to our services in ways that we do not anticipate. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or 33 Table of Contents our other failure to comply, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. Some of the risks we face from healthcare regulation are as follows: • False or Fraudulent Claim Laws. There are numerous federal and state laws that forbid submission of false information or the failure to disclose information in connection with submission and payment of physician claims for reimbursement. In some cases, these laws also forbid abuse of existing systems for such submission and payment. Any failure of our services to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial liability, including but not limited to criminal liability, could adversely affect demand for our services and could force us to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to address the failure. Errors by us or our systems with respect to entry, formatting, preparation or transmission of claim information may be determined or alleged to be in violation of these laws and regulations. Determination by a court or regulatory agency that our services violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could invalidate all or portions of some of our client contracts, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, could require us to refund portions of our services fees, could cause us to be disqualified from serving clients doing business with government payers and could have an adverse effect on our business. In most cases where we are permitted to do so, we calculate charges for our services based on a percentage of the collections that our clients receive as a result of our services. To the extent that violations or liability for violations of these laws and regulations require intent, it may be alleged that this percentage calculation provides us or our employees with incentive to commit or overlook fraud or abuse in connection with submission and payment of reimbursement claims. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has stated that it is concerned that percentage-based billing services may encourage billing companies to commit or to overlook fraudulent or abusive practices. • HIPAA and other Health Privacy Regulations. There are numerous federal and state laws related to patient privacy. In particular, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, includes privacy standards that protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of individually identifiable health information and data security standards that require covered entities to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and security of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. HIPAA also specifies formats that must be used in certain electronic transactions, such as claims, payment advice and eligibility inquiries. Because we translate electronic transactions to and from HIPAA-prescribed electronic formats and other forms, we are a clearinghouse and as such are a covered entity. In addition, our clients are also covered entities and are mandated by HIPAA to enter into written agreements with us, known as business associate agreements, that require us to safeguard individually identifiable health information. Business associate agreements typically include: • a description of our permitted uses of individually identifiable health information; • a covenant not to disclose the information other than as permitted under the agreement and to make our subcontractors, if any, subject to the same restrictions; • assurances that appropriate administrative, physical and technical safeguards are in place to prevent misuse of the information; • an obligation to report to our client any use or disclosure of the information not provided for in the agreement; • a prohibition against our use or disclosure of the information if a similar use or disclosure by our client would violate the HIPAA standards; • the ability for our clients to terminate the underlying support agreement if we breach a material term of the business associate agreement and are unable to cure the breach; • the requirement to return or destroy all individually identifiable health information at the end of our support agreement; and 34 Table of Contents • access by the Department of Health and Human Services to our internal practices, books and records to validate that we are safeguarding individually identifiable health information. We may not be able to adequately address the business risks created by HIPAA implementation. Furthermore, we are unable to predict what changes to HIPAA or other law or regulation might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business or the costs of compliance. In addition, the federal Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, or ONCHIT, is coordinating the development of national standards for creating an interoperable health information technology infrastructure based on the widespread adoption of electronic health records in the healthcare sector. We are unable to predict what, if any, impact the creation of such standards will have on our compliance costs or our services. In addition some payers and clearinghouses with which we conduct business interpret HIPAA transaction requirements differently than we do. Where clearinghouses or payers require conformity with their interpretations a condition of successful transaction we seek to comply with their interpretations. The HIPAA transaction standards include proper use of procedure and diagnosis codes. Since these codes are selected or approved by our clients, and since we do not verify their propriety, some of our capability to comply with the transaction standards is dependant on the proper conduct of our clients. In addition to the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules, most states have enacted patient confidentiality laws that protect against the disclosure of confidential medical information, and many states have adopted or are considering further legislation in this area, including privacy safeguards, security standards, and data security breach notification requirements. Such state laws, if more stringent than HIPAA requirements, are not preempted by the federal requirements we are required to comply with them. Failure by us to comply with any of the federal and state standards regarding patient privacy may subject us to penalties, including civil monetary penalties and in some circumstances, criminal penalties. In addition, such failure may injure our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain clients and attract new clients. • Anti-Kickback and Anti-Bribery Laws. There are federal and state laws that govern patient referrals, physician financial relationships and inducements to healthcare providers and patients. For example, the federal healthcare programs’ anti-kickback law prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase or order of any item, good, facility or service covered by these programs. Many states also have similar anti-kickback laws that are not necessarily limited to items or services for which payment is made by a federal healthcare program. Moreover, both federal and state laws forbid bribery and similar behavior. Any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our activities or those of our clients or, vendors or channel partners violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, could require us to refund a portion of our service fees, could disqualify us from providing services to clients doing business with government programs and could have an adverse effect on our business. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require costly response from us. • Anti-Referral Laws. There are federal and state laws that forbid payment for patient referrals, patient brokering, remuneration of patients or billing based on referrals between individuals and/or entities that have various financial, ownership or other business relationships. In many cases, billing for care arising from such actions is illegal. These vary widely from state to state, and one of the federal law, termed the Stark Law, is very complex in its application. Any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our clients violate or have violated any of these laws may result in allegations that claims that we have processed or forwarded are improper. This could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, could require us to refund portions of our services fees and could have an adverse effect on our business. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require costly response from us. 35 Table of Contents • Corporate Practice of Medicine Laws and Fee-Splitting Laws. In many states, there are state laws that forbid physicians from practicing medicine in partnership with non-physicians, such as business corporations. In some states, including New York, these take the form of laws or regulations forbidding splitting of physician fees with non-physicians or others. In some cases, these laws have been interpreted to prevent business service providers from charging their physician clients on the basis of a percentage of collections or charges. We have varied our charge structure in some states to comply with these laws, which may make our services less desirable to potential clients. Any determination by a state court or regulatory agency that our service contracts with our clients violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could invalidate all or portions of some of our client contracts, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, could require us to refund portions of our services fees and could have an adverse effect on our business. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require costly response from us. • Anti-Assignment Laws. There are federal and state laws that forbid or limit assignment of claims for reimbursement from government-funded programs. In some cases, these laws have been interpreted in regulations or policy statements to limit the manner in which business service companies may handle checks or other payments for such claims and to limit or prevent such companies from charging their physician clients on the basis of a percentage of collections or charges. Any determination by a state court or regulatory agency that our service contracts with our clients violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could invalidate all or portions of some of our client contracts, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, could require us to refund portions of our services fees and could have an adverse effect on our business. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require costly response from us. • Prescribing Laws. The use of our software by physicians to perform a variety of functions, including electronic prescribing, electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and dispensing of medication, is governed by state and federal law, including fraud and abuse laws, drug control regulations and state department of health regulations. States have differing prescription format requirements. Many existing laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate methods of e-commerce now being developed. For example, while federal law and the laws of many states permit the electronic transmission of prescription orders, the laws of several states neither specifically permit nor specifically prohibit the practice. Given the rapid growth of electronic transactions in healthcare, and particularly the growth of the Internet, we expect the remaining states to directly address these areas with regulation in the near future. Regulatory authorities such as the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services may impose functionality standards with regard to electronic prescribing and EMR technologies. Determination that we or our clients have violated prescribing laws may expose us to liability, loss of reputation and loss of business. These laws and requirements may also increase the cost and time necessary to market new services and could affect us in other respects not presently foreseeable. • Electronic Medical Records Laws. A number of federal and state laws govern the use and content of electronic health record systems, including fraud and abuse laws that may affect the donation of such technology. As a company that provides EMR functionality, our systems and services must be designed in a manner that facilitates our clients’ compliance with these laws. Because this is a topic of increasing state and federal regulation, we expect additional and continuing modification of the current legal and regulatory environment. We cannot predict the content or effect of possible future regulation on our business activities. The software component of our athenaClinicals service complies with the Certification Commission for Healthcare Information Technology, or CCHIT, for ambulatory electronic health record criteria for 2006. • Claims Transmission Laws. Our services include the manual and electronic transmission of our client’s claims for reimbursement from payers. Federal and various state laws provide for civil and criminal penalties for any person who submits, or causes to be submitted, a claim to any payer, including, 36 Table of Contents without limitation, Medicare, Medicaid and any private health plans and managed care plans, that is false or that that overbills or bills for items that have not been provided to the patient. • Prompt Pay Laws. Laws in many states govern prompt payment obligations for healthcare services. These laws generally define claims payment processes and set specific time frames for submission, payment and appeal steps. They frequently also define and require clean claims. Failure to meet these requirements and timeframes may result in rejection or delay of claims. Failure of our services to comply may adversely affect our business results and give rise to liability claims by clients. • Medical Device Laws. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has promulgated a draft policy for the regulation of computer software products as medical devices under the 1976 Medical Device Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. To the extent that computer software is a medical device under the policy, we, as a provider of application functionality, could be required, depending on the functionality, to: • register and list our products with the FDA; • notify the FDA and demonstrate substantial equivalence to other products on the market before marketing our functionality; or • obtain FDA approval by demonstrating safety and effectiveness before marketing our functionality. The FDA can impose extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market conditions like service investigation, approval, labeling and manufacturing. In addition, the FDA can impose extensive requirements governing development controls and quality assurance processes. Potential regulatory requirements placed on our software, services and content could impose increased costs on us, could delay or prevent our introduction of new services types and could impair the function or value of our existing service types. Our services are and are likely to continue to be subject to increasing regulatory requirements in a multitude of ways. As these requirements proliferate, we must change or adapt our services and our software to comply. Changing regulatory requirements may render our services obsolete or may block us from accomplishing our work or from developing new services. This may in turn impose additional costs upon us to comply or to further develop services or software. It may also make introduction of new service types more costly or more time consuming than we currently anticipate. It may even prevent such introduction by us of new services or continuation of our existing services unprofitably or impossible. Potential additional regulation of the disclosure of health information outside the United States may adversely affect our operations and may increase our costs. Federal or state governmental authorities may impose additional data security standards or additional privacy or other restrictions on the collection, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. Legislation has been proposed at various times at both the federal and the state level that would limit, forbid or regulate the use or transmission of medical information outside of the United States. Such legislation, if adopted, may render our use of our off-shore partners, such as our data-entry and customer service provider, Vision Healthsource, for work related to such data impracticable or substantially more expensive. Alternative processing of such information within the United States may involve substantial delay in implementation and increased cost. Errors or illegal activity on the part of our clients may result in claims against us. We rely on our clients, and we contractually obligate them, to provide us with accurate and appropriate data and directives for our actions. We rely upon our clients as users of our system for key activities to produce proper claims for reimbursement. Failure of clients to provide these data and directives or to perform these activities may result in claims against us that our reliance was misplaced or unreasonable or that we have facilitated or otherwise participated in submission of false claims. 37 Table of Contents Our services present the potential for embezzlement, identity theft or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or subcontractors with respect to third parties. Among other things, our services involve handling mail from payers and from patients for many of our clients, and this mail frequently includes original checks and/or credit card information, and occasionally, it includes currency. Even in those cases in which we do not handle original documents or mail, our services also involve the use and disclosure of personal and business information that could be used to impersonate third parties or otherwise gain access to their data or funds. If any of our employees or subcontractors takes, converts or misuses such funds, documents or data, we could be liable for damages, and our business reputation could be damaged or destroyed. In addition, we could be perceived to have facilitated or participated in illegal misappropriation of funds, documents or data and therefore be subject to civil or criminal liability. Potential subsidy of services similar to ours may reduce client demand. Recently, entities such as the Massachusetts Healthcare Consortium have offered to subsidize adoption by physicians of electronic health record technology. In addition, federal regulations have been changed to permit such subsidy from additional sources subject to certain limitations. To the extent that we do not qualify or participate in such subsidy programs, demand for our services may be reduced which may decrease our revenues. If participants in our channel marketing and sales lead programs do not maintain appropriate relationships with potential clients, our sales accomplished with their help or data may be unwound and our payments to them may be deemed improper. We maintain a series of relationships with third parties that we term channel relationships. These relationships take different forms under different contractual language. Some relationships help us identify sales leads. Other relationships permit third parties to act as value-added resellers or as independent sales representatives for our services. In some cases, for example in the case of some membership organizations, these relationships involve endorsement of our services as well as other marketing activities. In each of these cases, we require contractually that the third party disclose information to and/or limit their relationships with potential purchasers of our services for regulatory compliance reasons. If these third parties do not comply with these regulatory requirements or if our requirements are deemed insufficient, sales accomplished with the data or help that they have provided as well as the channel relationship themselves may not be enforceable, may be unwound and may be deemed to violate relevant laws or regulations. Third parties that, despite our requirements, exercise undue influence over decisions by prospective clients, occupy positions with obligations of fidelity or fiduciary obligations to prospective clients, or who offer bribes or kickbacks to prospective clients or their employees, may be committing wrongful or illegal acts that could render any resulting contract between us and the client unenforceable or in violation of relevant laws or regulations. Any misconduct by these third parties with respect to prospective clients, any failure to follow contractual requirements or any insufficiency of those contractual requirements may result in allegations that we have encouraged or participated in wrongful or illegal behavior and that payments to such third parties under our channel contracts are improper. This misconduct could subject us to civil or criminal claims and liabilities, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, could require us to refund portions of our services fees and could adversely effect our revenue and operating margin. Even an unsuccessful challenge of our activities could result in adverse publicity, require costly response from us, impair our ability to attract and maintain clients and lead analysts or potential investors to reduce their expectations of our performance, resulting in reduction to our market price. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not develop. Prior to our initial public in September 2007 offering there was no market for shares of our common stock. An active trading market for our common stock may never develop or be sustained, which could depress 38 Table of Contents the market price of our common stock and could affect your ability to sell your shares. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, these factors include: • our operating performance and the operating performance of similar companies; • the overall performance of the equity markets; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, business plans or commercial relationships; • threatened or actual litigation; • changes in laws or regulations relating to the sale of health insurance; • any major change in our board of directors or management; • publication of research reports or news stories about us, our competitors or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; • large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders; and • general political and economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for internet-related companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If a substantial number of shares become available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. As of December 31, 2007 we had approximately 32,324,824 shares of common stock outstanding. The 7,229,842 shares sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our affiliates. Taking into consideration the effect of the 180-day lock-up agreements that have been entered into by certain of our stockholders, we estimate that the remaining 25,094,982 shares of our common stock that were outstanding upon the closing of our initial public offering are available for sale pursuant to Rule 144 and Rule 701, as follows: 325,462 shares are shares saleable under Rules 144 and 701 that are not subject to a lock-up and 24,769,520 shares may be sold upon expiration of the lock-up agreements (subject in some cases to volume limitations). Moreover, the holders of shares of common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the shares they currently hold, or to include these shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders: We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our 1997 Stock Plan, 2000 Stock Plan, 2007 Stock Option and Incentive Plan and 2007 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding options to purchase 2,888,058 shares of common stock that, if exercised, will result in 2,460,060 additional shares becoming available for sale upon expiration of the initial public offering lock-up agreements. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the lock-up agreements referred to above. If a large number of these shares are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the underwriters, may at any time without notice, agree to release all or any portion of the shares subject to the lock-up agreements, which would result in more shares being available for sale in the public market at 39 Table of Contents earlier dates. Sales of common stock by existing stockholders in the public market, the availability of these shares for sale, our issuance of securities or the perception that any of these events might occur could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A limited number of stockholders have the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. As of December 31, 2007, our directors, executive officers and their affiliated entities beneficially owned more than 46% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they act together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our stock price. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by other stockholders. Actual or potential sales of our stock by our employees, including members of our senior management team, pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans could cause our stock price to fall or prevent it from increasing for numerous reasons and actual or potential sales by such persons could be viewed negatively by other investors. In accordance with the guidelines specified under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and our policies regarding stock transactions, a number of our employees, including members of our senior management team, adopted pre-arranged stock trading plans to sell a portion of our common stock. Generally, stock sales under such plans by members of our senior management team and directors require public filings. Actual or potential sales of our stock by such persons could cause our stock price to fall or prevent it from increasing for numerous reasons. For example, a substantial amount of our common stock becoming available (or being perceived to become available) for sale in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to fall or prevent it from increasing, particularly given the relatively low trading volumes of our stock. Also, actual or potential sales by such persons could be viewed negatively by other investors. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Also, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. 40 Table of Contents In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 