ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. We have a history of net losses, we may incur net losses in the future, and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses to develop and market our tests, which may make it difficult for us to achieve sustained profitability. We have historically incurred substantial net losses. From our inception in August 2000 through December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $165.8 million. We expect to continue to invest in our product pipeline, including our current Oncotype DX tests and future products, and in our global commercial infrastructure, our laboratory operations and next generation sequencing development. In addition, we plan to invest up to $20 million over the next two year period related to the development of InVitae Corporation, our new genetics-focused subsidiary. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our research and development expenses were $39.9 million and our selling and marketing expenses were $83.6 million. We expect our expense levels to continue to increase for the foreseeable future as we seek to expand the clinical utility of our Oncotype DX breast cancer test, drive adoption of and reimbursement for our Oncotype DX colon cancer test and develop new tests. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve sustained profitability. Our failure to achieve sustained profitability in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Continued weak general economic or business conditions could have a negative impact on our business. Continuing concerns over prolonged high unemployment levels, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, the U.S. real estate market, Federal budget proposals, proposed regulatory changes and taxation issues, inflation, deflation, energy costs and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased volatility and uncertain expectations for both the U.S. and global economies. These factors, combined with uncertainties in business and consumer confidence, volatile stock market and the international debt crisis, have precipitated an economic slowdown and expectations of slower global economic growth and possibly another recession going forward. These economic conditions continued to impact growth in tests delivered and revenues generated during the year ended December 31, 2011. If the economic environment does not improve or deteriorates, our business, including our patient population, our suppliers and our third-party payors, could be negatively affected, resulting in a negative impact on our product revenues. Healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation reforming the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively, the PPACA, enacted in March 2010, makes changes that are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries and clinical laboratories. Beginning in 2013, each medical device manufacturer will have to pay a sales tax in an amount equal to 2.3% of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices. Although there are some exceptions to the tax, because the FDA maintains that clinical laboratory tests that are developed and validated by a laboratory for its own use, or LDTs, such as our Oncotype DX breast and colon cancer tests, are medical devices, it may apply to some or all of our current products and products in development. The PPACA also mandates a reduction in payments for clinical laboratory services paid under the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule of 1.75% for the years 2011 through 2015 and a productivity adjustment to the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule. These or any future proposed or mandated reductions in payments may apply to some or all of our clinical laboratory tests delivered to Medicare beneficiaries. Other significant measures contained in the PPACA include, for example, coordination and promotion of research on comparative clinical effectiveness of different technologies and procedures, initiatives to revise Medicare payment methodologies, such as bundling of payments across the continuum of care by providers and physicians, and initiatives to promote quality indicators in payment methodologies. The PPACA also includes significant new fraud and abuse measures, including required disclosures of financial arrangements with physician customers, lower thresholds for violations and 34 Table of Contents increasing potential penalties for such violations. In addition, the PPACA establishes an Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, to reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending. The IPAB has broad discretion to propose policies to reduce expenditures, which may have a negative impact on payment rates for services, including clinical laboratory services. The IPAB proposals may impact payments for clinical laboratory services beginning in 2016 and for hospital services beginning in 2020. In addition to the PPACA, the effect of which cannot presently be fully quantified given its recent enactment, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged from federal and state governments. Changes in healthcare policy, such as changes in the FDA regulatory policy for LDTs, the creation of broad test utilization limits for diagnostic products in general or requirements that Medicare patients pay for portions of clinical laboratory tests or services received, could substantially impact the sales of our tests, increase costs and divert management's attention from our business. Such co-payments by Medicare beneficiaries for laboratory services were discussed as possible cost savings for the Medicare program as part of the debt ceiling budget discussions in mid-2011 and may be enacted in the future. In addition, sales of our tests outside of the United States make us subject to foreign regulatory requirements, which may also change over time. We cannot predict whether future healthcare initiatives will be implemented at the federal or state level or in countries outside of the United States in which we may do business, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. The taxes imposed by the new federal legislation and the expansion in government's role in the U.S. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursements by payors for our products or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, possibly materially. If the FDA were to begin regulating our tests, we could incur substantial costs and time delays associated with meeting requirements for pre-market clearance or approval or we could experience decreased demand for or reimbursement of our tests. Clinical laboratory tests like ours are regulated under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA, as well as by applicable state laws. Diagnostic kits that are sold and distributed through interstate commerce are regulated as medical devices by the FDA. Most LDTs are not currently subject to FDA regulation, although reagents or software provided by third parties and used to perform LDTs may be subject to regulation. We believe that our Oncotype DX tests are not diagnostic kits and also believe that they are LDTs. As a result, we believe our tests should not be subject to regulation under established FDA policies. The container we provide for collection and transport of tumor samples from a pathology laboratory to our clinical reference laboratory may be a medical device subject to FDA regulation but is currently exempt from pre-market review by the FDA. At various times since 2006, the FDA has issued guidance documents or announced draft guidance regarding initiatives that may require varying levels of FDA oversight of our tests. Legislative proposals addressing oversight of genetic testing and LDTs were introduced in the previous two Congresses and we expect that new legislative proposals will be introduced from time to time. In October 2011, Congress introduced the Modernizing of Laboratory Standards Act for Patients aimed at confirming CLIA as the appropriate mechanism for improving regulation of laboratory tests such as ours. We cannot provide any assurance that FDA regulation, including pre-market review, will not be required in the future for our tests, whether through additional guidance issued by the FDA, new enforcement policies adopted by the FDA or new legislation enacted by Congress. It is possible that legislation will be enacted into law or guidance could be issued by the FDA which may result in increased regulatory burdens for us to continue to offer our tests or to develop and introduce new tests. In addition, the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, requested that its Advisory Committee on Genetics, Health and Society make recommendations about the oversight of genetic testing. A final report was published in April 2008. If the report's recommendations for increased 35 Table of Contents oversight of genetic testing were to result in further regulatory burdens, it could have a negative impact on our business and could delay the commercialization of tests in development. If pre-market review is required, our business could be negatively impacted until such review is completed and clearance to market or approval is obtained, and the FDA could require that we stop selling our tests pending pre-market clearance or approval. If our tests are allowed to remain on the market but there is uncertainty about our tests, if they are labeled investigational by the FDA, or if labeling claims the FDA allows us to make are very limited, orders or reimbursement may decline. The regulatory approval process may involve, among other things, successfully completing additional clinical trials and submitting a pre-market clearance notice or filing a pre-market approval application with the FDA. If pre-market review is required by the FDA, there can be no assurance that our tests will be cleared or approved on a timely basis, if at all, nor can there be assurance that labeling claims will be consistent with our current claims or adequate to support continued adoption of and reimbursement for our tests. Ongoing compliance with FDA regulations would increase the cost of conducting our business, and subject us to inspection by and the requirements of the FDA and penalties for failure to comply with these requirements. We may also decide voluntarily to pursue FDA pre-market review of our tests if we determine that doing so would be appropriate. In June 2011, the FDA issued draft guidance regarding "Commercially Distributed In Vitro Diagnostic Products Labeled for Research Use Only or Investigational Use Only." Public comments were submitted in response to this draft guidance, which has not been finalized. In addition, the FDA has recently issued other draft guidance documents which may impact our tests or our future tests, including draft guidance regarding Mobile Medical Applications which is directed at patient management tools. Public comments were submitted in response to this draft guidance, which has not been finalized. In October 2011, the FDA published a list of planned guidance documents that the agency stated it plans to focus on in its fiscal year 2012, including three guidance documents addressing FDA regulation of laboratory tests such as ours. We cannot predict the ultimate form of any such guidance or regulation and the potential impact on our tests or materials used to perform our tests. While we qualify all materials used in our tests according to CLIA regulations, we cannot be certain that the FDA might not enact rules or guidance documents which could impact our ability to purchase materials necessary for the performance of our tests. Should any of the reagents obtained by us from vendors and used in conducting our tests be affected by future regulatory actions, our business could be adversely affected by those actions, including increasing the cost of testing or delaying, limiting or prohibiting the purchase of reagents necessary to perform testing. If we were required to conduct additional clinical trials prior to continuing to sell our breast and colon cancer tests or any other tests we may develop, those trials could lead to delays or failure to obtain necessary regulatory approval, which could cause significant delays in commercializing any future products and interruption in sales of our current tests and harm our ability to achieve sustained profitability. If the FDA decides to regulate our tests, it may require additional pre-market clinical testing prior to submitting a regulatory notification or application for commercial sales. If we are required to conduct pre-market clinical trials, whether using prospectively acquired samples or archival samples, delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly increase our test development costs and delay commercialization of any future tests, including our test for prostate cancer currently in development, and interrupt sales of our current tests. Many of the factors that may cause or lead to a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to delay or denial of regulatory clearance or approval. The commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. 36 Table of Contents We may find it necessary to engage contract research organizations to perform data collection and analysis and other aspects of our clinical trials, which might increase the cost and complexity of our trials. We may also depend on clinical investigators, medical institutions and contract research organizations to perform the trials properly. If these parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality, completeness or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may have to be extended, delayed or terminated. Many of these factors would be beyond our control. We may not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without undue delays or considerable expenditures. If there are delays in testing or approvals as a result of the failure to perform by third parties, our research and development costs would increase, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approval for our tests. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain relationships with these parties on favorable terms, if at all. Each of these outcomes would harm our ability to market our tests, or to achieve sustained profitability. If third-party payors, including managed care organizations and Medicare, do not provide reimbursement, breach, rescind or modify their contracts or reimbursement policies or delay payments for our Oncotype DX tests, our commercial success could be compromised. Physicians and patients may not order our Oncotype DX tests unless third-party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid and governmental payors outside of the United States, pay a substantial portion of the test price. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are: •not experimental or investigational, •medically necessary, •appropriate for the specific patient, •cost-effective, •supported by peer-reviewed publications, and •included in clinical practice guidelines. There is uncertainty concerning third-party payor reimbursement of any test incorporating new technology, including tests and indication extensions of existing tests developed using our Oncotype DX platform. Several entities conduct technology assessments of new medical tests and devices and provide the results of their assessments for informational purposes to other parties. These assessments may be used by third-party payors and health care providers as grounds to deny coverage for a test or procedure. Although there are a number of favorable assessments of our Oncotype DX breast cancer test, the test has received negative assessments in the past and our tests may receive negative assessments in the future. For example, in November 2010, the Medical Advisory Panel of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association's Technology Evaluation Center, a technology assessment group, published its conclusion that the existing clinical data in support of our Oncotype DX breast cancer test did not meet the panel's technology criteria for clinical effectiveness and appropriateness for usage in patients with N+ disease. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, the special health authority for the National Health Service in England, also recently issued a draft guidance that did not support any breast cancer treatment decision-making test. Since each payor makes its own decision as to whether to establish a policy to reimburse our test, seeking these approvals is a time-consuming and costly process. To date, we have positive coverage determinations for our Oncotype DX breast cancer test for N-, ER+ patients from most third-party payors in the United States through contracts, agreements or policy decisions. We cannot be certain that coverage for this test will be provided in the future by additional third-party payors or that existing contracts, agreements or policy decisions or reimbursement levels will remain in place or be fulfilled within existing terms and provisions. 37 Table of Contents Following the reporting of clinical studies to support the use of our Oncotype DX breast cancer test in patients with N+, ER+ disease and in patients with DCIS, we experienced an increase in usage for N+ patients and expect to experience increasing usage for DCIS patients. We may not be able to obtain reimbursement coverage for our test for breast cancer patients with N+, ER+ disease or DCIS that is similar to the coverage we have obtained for early stage N-, ER+ patients. We have obtained limited reimbursement from private third-party payors in the United States for our Oncotype DX colon cancer test launched in January 2010. We expect to focus substantial resources on obtaining adoption of and reimbursement coverage for this test. Until further clinical data is presented, our colon cancer test may be considered investigational by payors and therefore may not be covered under their reimbursement policies. We believe it may take several years to achieve reimbursement with a majority of third-party payors for our colon cancer test. However, we cannot predict whether, under what circumstances, or at what payment levels payors will reimburse for our test. If we fail to establish broad adoption of and reimbursement for our colon cancer test, our reputation could be harmed and our future prospects and our business could suffer. If we are unable to obtain or maintain reimbursement from private payors and Medicare and Medicaid programs for our existing tests or new tests or test enhancements we may develop in the future, our ability to generate revenues could be limited. We have in the past, and will likely in the future, experience delays and temporary interruptions in the receipt of payments from third-party payors due to contract implementation steps, documentation requirements and other issues, which could cause our revenues to fluctuate from period to period. If we are unable to obtain or maintain adequate reimbursement for our tests outside of the United States, our ability to expand internationally will be compromised. The majority of our international Oncotype DX breast and colon cancer test revenues come from direct payor reimbursement, payments from our distributors, patient self-pay, and clinical collaborations in various countries. In many countries outside of the United States, various coverage, pricing and reimbursement approvals are required. We expect that it will take several years to establish broad coverage and reimbursement for our tests with payors in countries outside of the United States, and our efforts may not be successful. In addition, because we rely on distributors to obtain reimbursement for our tests, to the extent we do not have direct reimbursement arrangements with payors, we may not be able to retain reimbursement coverage with a particular payor if our agreement with a distributor is terminated or expires. The prices at which our tests are reimbursed may be reduced by Medicare and private and other payors, and any such changes could have a negative impact on our revenues. Even if we are being reimbursed for our tests, Medicare, Medicaid and private and other payors may withdraw their coverage policies, cancel their contracts with us at any time, review and adjust the rate of reimbursement, require co-payments from patients or stop paying for our tests, which would reduce our revenues. In addition, insurers, including managed care organizations as well as government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services. These measures have resulted in reduced payment rates and decreased utilization for the clinical laboratory industry. From time to time, Congress has considered and implemented changes to the Medicare fee schedules in conjunction with budgetary legislation, and pricing and payment terms, including the possible requirement of a patient co-payment for Medicare beneficiaries for tests covered by Medicare, are subject to change at any time. Reductions in the reimbursement rate of payors may occur in the future. Reductions in the prices at which our tests are reimbursed could have a negative impact on our revenues. 38 Table of Contents There is no specific Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, procedure code or group of codes to report the Oncotype DX breast or colon cancer tests. The tests are reported under a non-specific, unlisted procedure code, which is subject to manual review of each claim. With regard to Medicare's current reimbursement of our Oncotype DX breast cancer test, we were informed that, under the local coverage determination, claims are to be paid consistent with the average allowed reimbursement rate for claims that were billed and processed to completion as of September 30, 2005. This reimbursement rate remains in effect as of the date of this report, but is subject to review and adjustment. A Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS, code has been issued effective January 1, 2006 for the Oncotype DX breast cancer test that some private third-party payors may accept on claims for the test. However, Medicare will not accept this HCPCS code. The American Medical Association, which has the copyright on the CPT coding system, has established a work group to develop a new coding framework for non-infectious disease molecular pathology testing and recommend new codes to the panel, which determines new and revised codes and descriptors. It is possible that this process will result in a new code or codes to report and bill for our Oncotype DX tests, and could result in our tests being priced on the physician fee schedule rather than the clinical laboratory fee schedule and that such coding changes may result in higher or lower reimbursement of our tests. Whether or not we obtain a specific CPT code for our tests, there can be no assurance that an adequate payment rate will continue to be assigned to the tests, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. Because of Medicare billing rules, we may not receive reimbursement for all tests provided to Medicare patients. Under current Medicare billing rules, claims for our Oncotype DX tests performed on Medicare beneficiaries who were hospital inpatients at the time the tumor tissue samples were obtained and whose tests were ordered less than 14 days from discharge must be incorporated in the payment that the hospital receives for the inpatient services provided. Medicare billing rules also require hospitals to bill for the test when ordered for hospital outpatients less than 14 days following the date of the hospital procedure where the tumor tissue samples were obtained. Accordingly, we are required to bill individual hospitals for tests performed on Medicare beneficiaries during these time frames. Because we generally do not have a written agreement in place with these hospitals to purchase these tests, we may not be paid for our tests or may have to pursue payment from the hospital on a case-by-case basis. We believe patients coming under this rule represent approximately 1% of our total breast cancer testing population. We believe these billing rules may lead to confusion regarding whether Medicare provides adequate reimbursement for our tests, and could discourage Medicare patients from using our test. We have no assurance that Medicare will revise or reverse these billing rules to allow us to bill for these tests or that Congress will require Medicare to do so at some point in the future, and we also cannot ensure that hospitals will agree to arrangements to pay us for Oncotype DX tests performed on patients falling under these rules. We depend on Medicare for a significant portion of our product revenues and if Medicare or other significant payors stop providing reimbursement or decrease the amount of reimbursement for our tests, our revenues could decline. Reimbursement on behalf of patients covered by Medicare accounted for 22%, 21% and 20% of our product revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Accounts receivable on behalf of patients covered by Medicare represented 27% and 37% of our net accounts receivable at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. While there were no other third-party payors with product revenues representing 10% or more for these periods, there have been in the past, and may be in the future, other payors accounting for 10% or more of our product revenues. Because the majority of stage II colon cancer patients in the United States are age 65 and over, we may become more dependent on Medicare reimbursement in the future. It is possible that Medicare or other third-party payors that provide reimbursement for our tests may suspend, revoke or discontinue coverage at any time, may require co-payments from patients, or may reduce the reimbursement rates payable to us. Any such action could have a negative impact on our revenues. 39 Table of Contents Our financial results depend largely on the sales of one test, our Oncotype DX breast cancer test, and we will need to generate sufficient revenues from this and other tests to run our business. For the near future, we expect to continue to derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of one test, our Oncotype DX test for invasive breast cancer. While we launched our test for colon cancer in January 2010, we do not expect to recognize significant revenues from this test until significant levels of adoption and reimbursement for this test have been established. We have similar expectations for revenue related to our DCIS breast cancer test, which was launched in December 2011. We are in various stages of research and development for other tests that we may offer as well as for enhancements to our existing tests. We may not be able to successfully commercialize tests for other cancers or diseases. If we are unable to increase sales of our test for invasive breast cancer, establish adoption of and reimbursement for our colon cancer and DCIS tests, or successfully develop and commercialize other tests or enhancements, our revenues and our ability to achieve sustained profitability would be impaired. Complying with numerous regulations pertaining to our business is an expensive and time-consuming process, and any failure to comply could result in substantial penalties. We are subject to CLIA, a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA regulations mandate specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. We have a current certificate of accreditation under CLIA to perform testing through our accreditation by the College of American Pathologists, or CAP. To renew this certificate, we are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make random inspections of our clinical reference laboratory. Although we are required to hold a certificate of accreditation under CLIA that allows us to perform high complexity testing, we are not required to hold a certificate of accreditation through CAP. We could alternatively maintain a certificate of accreditation from another accrediting organization or a certificate of compliance through inspection by surveyors acting on behalf of the CLIA program. If our accreditation under CAP were to terminate, either voluntarily or involuntarily, we would need to convert our certification under CLIA to a certificate of compliance (or to a certificate of accreditation with another accreditation organization) in order to maintain our ability to perform clinical testing and to continue commercial operations. Whether we would be able to successfully maintain operations through either of these alternatives would depend upon the facts and circumstances surrounding termination of our CAP accreditation, such as whether any deficiencies were identified by CAP as the basis for termination and, if so, whether these were addressed to the satisfaction of the surveyors for the CLIA program (or another accrediting organization). We are also required to maintain a license to conduct testing in California. California laws establish standards for day-to-day operation of our clinical reference laboratory, including the training and skills required of personnel and quality control. In addition, our clinical reference laboratory is required to be licensed on a product-specific basis by New York State. New York law also mandates proficiency testing for laboratories licensed under New York state law, regardless of whether or not such laboratories are located in New York. Moreover, several other states require that we hold licenses to test specimens from patients in those states. Other states may have similar requirements or may adopt similar requirements in the future. Finally, we may be subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions as we seek to expand international distribution of our tests which may require review of our tests in order to offer our services or may have other limitations such as prohibitions on the export of tissue necessary for us to perform our test which may limit our ability to distribute outside of the United States. If we were to lose our CLIA accreditation or California license, whether as a result of a revocation, suspension or limitation, we would no longer be able to sell our tests, which would limit our revenues and 40 Table of Contents harm our business. If we were to lose our license in New York or in other states where we are required to hold licenses, we would not be able to test specimens from those states. We are subject to other regulation by both the federal government and the states, in which we conduct our business, including: •Medicare billing and payment regulations applicable to clinical laboratories; •the Federal Anti-kickback Law and state anti-kickback prohibitions; •the Federal physician self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark Law, and the state equivalents; •the Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996; •the Medicare civil money penalty and exclusion requirements; •the Federal False Claims Act civil and criminal penalties and state equivalents; and •the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which applies to our international activities. We have adopted policies and procedures designed to comply with these laws. In the ordinary course of our business, we conduct internal reviews of our compliance with these laws. Our compliance is also subject to governmental review. The growth of our business and sales organization and our expansion outside of the United States may increase the potential of violating these laws or our internal policies and procedures. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is further increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action brought against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws and regulations, we may be subject to any applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines, we could be required to refund payments received by us, and we could be required to curtail or cease our operations. Any of the foregoing consequences could seriously harm our business and our financial results. New test development involves a lengthy and complex process, and we may be unable to commercialize on a timely basis, or at all, any of the tests we are currently developing. We have multiple tests in development and devote considerable resources to research and development. There can be no assurance that our technologies will be capable of reliably predicting the recurrence of cancers other than breast and colon cancer with the sensitivity and specificity necessary to be clinically and commercially useful, or that our colon cancer test will result in a commercially successful product. In addition, before we can develop diagnostic tests for new cancers or other diseases and commercialize any new products, we will need to: •conduct substantial research and development; •conduct validation studies; •expend significant funds; •develop and scale our laboratory processes to accommodate different tests; and •develop and scale our infrastructure to be able to analyze increasingly large amounts of data. Our product development process involves a high degree of risk and may take several years. Our product development efforts may fail for many reasons, including: •failure of the product at the research or development stage; 41 Table of Contents •difficulty in accessing archival tissue samples, especially tissue samples with known clinical results; or •lack of clinical validation data to support the effectiveness of the product. Few research and development projects result in commercial products, and success in early clinical trials often is not replicated in later studies. At any point, we may abandon development of a product candidate or we may be required to expend considerable resources repeating clinical trials, which would adversely impact the timing for generating potential revenues from those product candidates. In addition, as we develop products, we will have to make significant investments in product development, marketing and selling resources. If a clinical validation study fails to demonstrate the prospectively defined endpoints of the study, we might choose to abandon the development of the product or product feature that was the subject of the clinical trial, which could harm our business. In addition, competitors may develop and commercialize competing products faster than we are able to do so. If we are unable to support demand for our tests, including successfully managing the evolution of our technology and manufacturing platforms, our business could suffer. As our test volume grows, we will need to continue to ramp up our testing capacity, implement increases in scale and related processing, customer service, billing and systems process improvements, and expand our internal quality assurance program, technology and manufacturing platforms to support testing on a larger scale. We will also need additional certified laboratory scientists and other scientific and technical personnel to process higher volumes of our tests. We cannot assure you that any increases in scale, related improvements and quality assurance will be successfully implemented or that appropriate personnel will be available. As additional products are commercialized, we will need to bring new equipment on-line, implement new systems, technology, controls and procedures and hire personnel with different qualifications. Failure to implement necessary procedures or to hire the necessary personnel could result in higher cost of processing or an inability to meet market demand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to perform tests on a timely basis at a level consistent with demand, that our efforts to scale our commercial operations will not negatively affect the quality of test results, or that we will be successful in responding to the growing complexity of our testing operations. If we encounter difficulty meeting market demand or quality standards for our tests, our reputation could be harmed and our future prospects and our business could suffer. We may experience limits on our revenues if physicians decide not to order our tests. If medical practitioners do not order our Oncotype DX tests or any future tests developed or offered by us, we will likely not be able to create demand for our products in sufficient volume for us to achieve sustained profitability. To generate demand, we will need to continue to make oncologists, surgeons and pathologists aware of the benefits of each type of test through published papers, presentations at scientific conferences and one-on-one education by our sales force. In addition, we will need to demonstrate our ability to obtain and maintain adequate reimbursement coverage from third-party payors. Prior to the inclusion of our Oncotype DX breast cancer test in clinical guidelines for treatment of invasive breast cancer, guidelines and practices regarding the treatment of breast cancer recommended that chemotherapy be considered in most cases, including many cases in which our test might indicate that, based on our clinical trial results, chemotherapy would be of little or no benefit. Accordingly, physicians may be reluctant to order a test that may suggest recommending against chemotherapy in treating breast cancer. Moreover, our test provides quantitative information not currently provided by pathologists and it is performed at our facility rather than by the pathologist in a local laboratory, so pathologists may be reluctant to support our test. These facts may make it difficult for us to convince medical practitioners to order our test for their patients, which could limit our ability to generate revenues and achieve sustained profitability. 42 Table of Contents Our Oncotype DX colon cancer test predicts recurrence but, unlike our test for invasive breast cancer, does not predict chemotherapy benefit. We will need to educate physicians, patients and payors about the benefits and cost-effectiveness of our colon cancer test and to establish reimbursement arrangements for this test with payors. We may need to hire additional commercial, scientific, technical and other personnel to support this process. If our marketing and educational efforts do not result in sufficient physician or patient demand, we may not be able to obtain adequate reimbursement for our colon cancer test. If we fail to successfully establish adoption of and additional reimbursement beyond Medicare for our colon cancer test, our reputation could be harmed and our business could suffer. We may experience limits on our revenues if patients decide not to use our tests. Some patients may decide not to use our Oncotype DX tests due to their price, all or part of which may be payable directly by the patient if the applicable payor denies reimbursement in full or in part. Even if medical practitioners recommend that their patients use our tests, patients may still decide not to use our tests, either because they do not want to be made aware of the likelihood of recurrence or they wish to pursue a particular course of therapy regardless of test results. Additionally, the current economic environment could continue to negatively impact patients, resulting in loss of healthcare coverage, delayed medical checkups or inability to pay for our tests. If only a small portion of the patient population decides to use our tests, we will experience limits on our revenues and our ability to achieve sustained profitability. Our rights to use technologies licensed from third parties are not within our control, and we may not be able to sell our products if we lose our existing rights or cannot obtain new rights on reasonable terms. We license from third parties technology necessary to develop our products. For example, we license technology from Roche that we use to analyze genes for possible inclusion in our tests and that we use in our clinical reference laboratory to conduct our tests. In return for the use of a third party's technology, we may agree to pay the licensor royalties based on sales of our products. Royalties are a component of cost of product revenues and impact the margins on our tests. We may need to license other technologies to commercialize future products. Our business may suffer if these licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. Companies that attempt to replicate our tests could be set up in countries that do not recognize our intellectual property. Such companies could send test results into the United States and therefore reduce sales of our tests. If we are unable to develop products to keep pace with rapid technological, medical and scientific change, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. In recent years, there have been numerous advances in technologies relating to the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. For example, technologies in addition to ours now reportedly permit measurement of gene expression in fixed paraffin-embedded tissue specimens. New chemotherapeutic or biologic strategies are being developed that may increase survival time and reduce toxic side effects. There have also been advances in methods used to analyze very large amounts of genomic information, specifically next generation sequencing. These advances require us to continuously develop our technology, develop new products and enhance existing products to keep pace with evolving standards of care. Our tests could become obsolete unless we continually innovate and expand our products to demonstrate recurrence and treatment benefit in patients treated with new therapies. New treatment therapies typically have only a few years of clinical data associated with them, which limits our ability to perform clinical studies and correlate sets of genes to a new treatment's effectiveness. If we are unable to demonstrate the applicability of our tests to new treatments, sales of our test could decline, which would harm our revenues. 43 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain intellectual property protection, our competitive position could be harmed. Our ability to compete and to achieve sustained profitability is impacted by our ability to protect our proprietary discoveries and technologies. We currently rely on a combination of patent applications, copyrights, trademarks, and confidentiality, material data transfer, license and invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. We also rely upon trade secret laws to protect unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation. Our intellectual property strategy is intended to develop and maintain our competitive position. Patents may be granted to us jointly with other organizations, and while we may have a right of first refusal, we cannot guarantee that a joint owner will not license rights to another party, and we cannot guarantee that a joint owner will cooperate with us in the enforcement of patent rights. As of December 31, 2011, we had 21 issued patents in the United States and 24 issued patents internationally covering genes and methods that are components of the Oncotype DX breast and colon cancer tests or research methods and platform technologies. For patents granted by the European Patent Office, we have validated these patents in what we believe are key European Union countries. In addition, we have a number of pending patent applications in the United States and in other countries. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and we cannot assure you that our issued patents or any patents that might ultimately be issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, will protect our technology. Any patents that may be issued to us might be challenged by third parties as being invalid or unenforceable, or third parties may independently develop similar or competing technology that avoids our patents. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation and use of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. From time to time, the U.S. Supreme Court, other federal courts, the U.S. Congress or the USPTO may change the standards of patentability and any such changes could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, competitors may develop their own versions of our test in countries where we did not apply for patents or where our patents have not issued and compete with us in those countries, including encouraging the use of their test by physicians or patients in other countries. In October 2008, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision that methods or processes cannot be patented unless they are tied to a machine or involve a physical transformation. The U.S. Supreme Court reversed that decision in 2010, finding that the "machine-or-transformation" test is not the only test for determining patent eligibility. The Court, however, declined to specify how and when processes are patentable. In response, the USPTO issued an Interim Guidance for Determining Subject Matter Eligibility for Process Claim dated July 27, 2010. We cannot assure you that our patent portfolio will not be negatively impacted by the decision described above, rulings in other cases or changes in guidance or procedures issued by the USPTO. There have been several cases involving "gene patents" and diagnostic claims that are or may be pending before the U.S. Supreme Court. A suit brought by multiple plaintiffs, including the American Civil Liberties Union, or ACLU, against Myriad Genetics and the USPTO, could also impact biotechnology patents. That case involves certain of Myriad's U.S. patents related to the breast cancer susceptibility genes BRCA1 and BRCA2. The Federal Circuit issued a written decision on July 29, 2011 that reversed the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York's ruling that Myriad's composition claims to "isolated" DNA molecules cover unpatentable subject matter. However, the Federal Court affirmed the District Court's decision that Myriad's method claims directed to simply "comparing" or "analyzing" DNA sequences without a "transformation" step are not patentable. On December 17, 2010, the Federal Circuit issued a decision in Prometheus vs. Mayo, a case involving patent claims directed to for optimizing the amount of drug administered to a specific patient. The panel found that the steps of administering a drug and/or determining the level of the drug metabolite were sufficiently transformative and central to the 44 Table of Contents purpose of the method to render the inventions patentable. The U.S. Supreme Court has granted certiorari in both the Myriad and Prometheus cases. It is unknown whether or how these cases will be decided by the Supreme Court or whether such decisions will have an indirect impact on gene patents generally or the ability of biotechnology companies to obtain or enforce gene patents in the future. Also, in February 2010, the Secretary's Advisory Committee on Genetics, Health and Society for HHS voted to approve a report entitled "Gene Patents and Licensing Practices and Their Impact on Patient Access to Genetic Tests." That report defines "patent claims on genes" broadly to include claims to isolated nucleic acid molecules as well as methods of detecting particular sequences or mutations. The report also contains six recommendations, including the creation of an exemption from liability for infringement of patent claims on genes for anyone making, using, ordering, offering for sale, or selling a test developed under the patent for patient care purposes, or for anyone using the patent-protected genes in the pursuit of research. In addition, the report recommended that the Secretary should explore, identify, and implement mechanisms that will encourage more voluntary adherence to current guidelines that promote non-exclusive in-licensing of diagnostic genetic and genomic technologies. It is unclear whether these recommendations will be acted upon by the HHS, or if the recommendations would result in a change in law or process that could negatively impact our patent portfolio or future research and development efforts. In January 2012, the USPTO published a request for comments and notice of public hearings for the Genetic Testing Study. Congress has required the agency to study and report on several topics related to genetic testing including: (1) the impact that the current lack of independent second opinion testing has had on the ability to provide the highest level of medical care to patients and recipients of genetic diagnostic testing, and on inhibiting innovation to existing testing and diagnoses; (2) the effect that providing independent second opinion genetic diagnostic testing would have on the existing patent and license holders of an exclusive genetic test; (3) the impact that current exclusive licensing and patents on genetic testing activity has on the practice of medicine, including but not limited to: the interpretation of testing results and performance of testing procedures; and (4) the role that cost and insurance coverage have on access to and provision of genetic diagnostic tests. It is unclear whether the results of this study will be acted upon by the USPTO or result in Congressional efforts to change the law or process in a manner that could negatively impact our patent portfolio or future research and development efforts. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend, and could result in our loss of significant rights and the assessment of treble damages. We have received notices of claims of infringement and misappropriation or misuse of other parties' proprietary rights in the past and may from time to time receive additional notices. Some of these claims may lead to litigation. We cannot assure you that we will prevail in such actions, or that other actions alleging misappropriation or misuse by us of third-party trade secrets, infringement by us of third-party patents and trademarks or the validity of our patents, will not be asserted or prosecuted against us. We may also initiate claims to defend our intellectual property or to seek relief on allegations that we use, sell, or offer to sell technology that incorporates third party intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of outcome, is expensive and time-consuming, could divert management's attention from our business and have a material negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we were to be found to have willfully infringed a third party's patent) to the party claiming infringement, develop non-infringing technology, stop selling our tests or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or commercially practical terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. In addition, revising our tests to include the non-infringing technologies would require us to re-validate our tests, which would be costly and time consuming. Also, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our tests. Parties making infringement claims on future issued patents may be able to obtain an injunction that could prevent us from selling our tests or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could harm our business. 45 Table of Contents It is possible that a third party or patent office might take the position that one or more patents or patent applications constitute prior art in the field of genomic-based diagnostics. In such a case, we might be required to pay royalties, damages and costs to firms who own the rights to these patents, or we might be restricted from using any of the inventions claimed in those patents. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may be unable to increase or sustain our revenues or achieve sustained profitability. Our principal competition comes from existing diagnostic methods used by pathologists and oncologists. These methods have been used for many years and are therefore difficult to change or supplement. In addition, companies offering capital equipment and kits or reagents to local pathology laboratories represent another source of potential competition. These kits are used directly by the pathologist, which facilitates adoption more readily than tests like ours that are performed outside the pathology laboratory. We also face competition from companies that offer products or have conducted research to profile genes, gene expression or protein expression in breast or colon cancer, including public companies such as, GE Healthcare, a business unit of General Electric Company, Hologic, Inc., Novartis AG, Myriad Genetics, Inc., Qiagen N.V. and Response Genetics, Inc., and many private companies. We face competition from commercial laboratories with strong distribution networks for diagnostic tests, such as Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings and Quest Diagnostics Incorporated. Other potential competitors include companies that develop diagnostic tests such as Roche Diagnostics, a division of Roche Holding, Ltd, Siemens AG and Veridex LLC, a Johnson & Johnson company, as well as other companies and academic and research institutions. Others may invent and commercialize technology platforms such as next generation sequencing approaches that will compete with our test. Projects related to cancer genomics have received government funding, both in the United States and internationally. As more information regarding cancer genomics becomes available to the public, we anticipate that more products aimed at identifying targeted treatment options will be developed and that these products may compete with ours. In addition, competitors may develop their own versions of our tests in countries where we did not apply for patents or where our patents have not issued and compete with us in those countries, including encouraging the use of their test by physicians or patients in other countries. We have changed the list price of our tests in the past and we may change prices for our tests in the future. Any increase or decrease in pricing could impact reimbursement of and demand for our tests. Many of our present and potential competitors have widespread brand recognition and substantially greater financial and technical resources and development, production and marketing capabilities than we do. Others may develop lower-priced, less complex tests that could be viewed by physicians and payors as functionally equivalent to our tests, which could force us to lower the list prices of our tests and impact our operating margins and our ability to achieve sustained profitability. Some competitors have developed tests cleared for marketing by the FDA. There may be a marketing differentiation or perception that an FDA-cleared test is more desirable than Oncotype DX tests, and that may discourage adoption of and reimbursement for our tests. If we are unable to compete successfully against current or future competitors, we may be unable to increase market acceptance for and sales of our tests, which could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues or achieving sustained profitability and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our research and development efforts will be hindered if we are not able to contract with third parties for access to archival tissue samples. Under standard clinical practice in the United States, tumor biopsies removed from patients are chemically preserved and embedded in paraffin wax and stored. Our clinical development relies on our ability to secure access to these archived tumor biopsy samples, as well as information pertaining to their associated clinical outcomes. Others have demonstrated their ability to study archival samples and often 46 Table of Contents compete with us for access. Additionally, the process of negotiating access to archived samples is lengthy since it typically involves numerous parties and approval levels to resolve complex issues such as usage rights, institutional review board approval, privacy rights, publication rights, intellectual property ownership and research parameters. If we are not able to negotiate access to archival tumor tissue samples with hospitals, clinical partners, pharmaceutical companies, or companies developing therapeutics on a timely basis, or at all, or if other laboratories or our competitors secure access to these samples before us, our ability to research, develop and commercialize future products will be limited or delayed. If we cannot maintain our current clinical collaborations and enter into new collaborations, our product development could be delayed. We rely on and expect to continue to rely on clinical collaborators to perform a substantial portion of our clinical trial functions. If any of our collaborators were to breach or terminate its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct the contracted activities successfully and in a timely manner, the research, development or commercialization of the products contemplated by the collaboration could be delayed or terminated. If any of our collaboration agreements are terminated, or if we are unable to renew those agreements on acceptable terms, we would be required to seek alternatives. We may not be able to negotiate additional collaborations on acceptable terms, if at all, and these collaborations may not be successful. In the past, we have entered into clinical trial collaborations with highly regarded organizations in the cancer field including, for example, the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project, or NSABP. Our success in the future depends in part on our ability to enter into agreements with other leading cancer organizations. This can be difficult due to internal and external constraints placed on these organizations. Some organizations may limit the number of collaborations they have with any one company so as to not be perceived as biased or conflicted. Organizations may also have insufficient administrative and related infrastructure to enable collaborations with many companies at once, which can extend the time it takes to develop, negotiate and implement a collaboration. Additionally, organizations often insist on retaining the rights to publish the clinical data resulting from the collaboration. The publication of clinical data in peer-reviewed journals is a crucial step in commercializing and obtaining reimbursement for a test such as ours, and our inability to control when, if ever, results are published may delay or limit our ability to derive sufficient revenues from any product that may result from a collaboration. From time to time we expect to engage in discussions with potential clinical collaborators which may or may not lead to collaborations. However, we cannot guarantee that any discussions will result in clinical collaborations or that any clinical studies which may result will be enrolled or completed in a reasonable time frame or with successful outcomes. Once news of discussions regarding possible collaborations are known in the medical community, regardless of whether the news is accurate, failure to announce a collaboration agreement or the entity's announcement of a collaboration with an entity other than us could result in adverse speculation about us, our product or our technology, resulting in harm to our reputation and our business. The loss of key members of our senior management team or our inability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists, clinicians and salespeople could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our executive management team and others in key management positions. The efforts of each of these persons together will be critical to us as we continue to develop our technologies and testing processes and as we transition to a company with multiple commercialized products. If we were to lose one or more of these key employees, we may experience difficulties in competing effectively, developing our technologies and implementing our business strategies. 47 Table of Contents Our research and development programs and commercial laboratory operations depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists and technicians, including geneticists, licensed laboratory technicians, chemists, biostatisticians and engineers. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified scientists and technicians in the future due to the competition for qualified personnel among life science businesses, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area. In addition, it is expected that there will be a shortage of clinical laboratory scientists in coming years, which would make it more difficult to hire sufficient numbers of qualified personnel. We also face competition from universities and public and private research institutions in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific personnel. In addition, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain salespeople with extensive experience in oncology and close relationships with medical oncologists, surgeons, pathologists and other hospital personnel. We may have difficulties locating, recruiting or retaining qualified salespeople, which could cause a delay or decline in the rate of adoption of our tests. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to support our research and development and sales programs. All of our employees are at-will, which means that either we or the employee may terminate their employment at any time. If our sole laboratory facility becomes inoperable, we will be unable to perform our tests and our business will be harmed. We do not have redundant clinical reference laboratory facilities outside of Redwood City, California. Redwood City is situated near active earthquake fault lines. Our facility and the equipment we use to perform our tests would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. The facility may be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including earthquakes, flooding and power outages, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to perform our tests for some period of time. The inability to perform our tests or the backlog of tests that could develop if our facility is inoperable for even a short period of time may result in the loss of customers or harm our reputation, and we may be unable to regain those customers in the future. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In order to rely on a third party to perform our tests, we could only use another facility with established state licensure and CLIA accreditation under the scope of which Oncotype DX tests could be performed following validation and other required procedures. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find another CLIA-certified facility willing to comply with the required procedures, that this laboratory would be willing to perform the tests for us on commercially reasonable terms, or that it would be able to meet our quality standards. In order to establish a redundant clinical reference laboratory facility, we would have to spend considerable time and money securing adequate space, constructing the facility, recruiting and training employees, and establishing the additional operational and administrative infrastructure necessary to support a second facility. We may not be able, or it may take considerable time, to replicate our testing processes or results in a new facility. Additionally, any new clinical reference laboratory facility opened by us would be subject to certification under CLIA and licensing by several states, including California and New York, which could take a significant amount of time and result in delays in our ability to begin operations. International expansion of our business exposes us to business, regulatory, political, operational, financial and economic risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Our business strategy incorporates international expansion, including establishing and maintaining direct sales and physician outreach and education capabilities outside of the United States and expanding 48 Table of Contents our relationships with international payors and distributors. Doing business internationally involves a number of risks, including: •multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tax laws, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; •failure by us or our distributors to obtain regulatory approvals for the use of our tests in various countries; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •complexities associated with managing multiple payor reimbursement regimes or patient self-pay systems; •logistics and regulations associated with shipping tissue samples, including infrastructure conditions and transportation delays; •limits in our ability to penetrate international markets if we are not able to process tests locally; •financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty collecting accounts receivable, the impact of local and regional financial crises on demand for our tests and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; •natural disasters, political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, and political unrest, outbreak of disease, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and •regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over sales and distributors' activities that may fall within the purview of the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, its books and records provisions or its anti-bribery provisions. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future international expansion and operations and, consequently, our revenues and results of operations. Our dependence on distributors for sales of our Oncotype DX tests outside of the U.S. could limit or prevent us from selling our test in foreign markets and impact our revenue. As of December 31, 2011, we have established exclusive distribution agreements for one or more of our Oncotype DX tests with 17 distributors covering 30 countries. We may enter into other similar arrangements to distribute our tests in other countries in the future. We intend to grow our business internationally, and to do so we may need to attract additional distributors to expand the territories in which we sell our test. Distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our test to the level of our expectations. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately, or we are unable to enter into arrangements with distributors in particular geographic areas, we may not realize long-term international revenue growth. In addition, our revenue from distributors could be negatively impacted as a result of changes in business cycles, business conditions or other factors that could affect their ability to pay us for tests on a timely basis or at all. Regulatory requirements, costs of doing business outside of the United States and the reimbursement process in foreign markets may also impact our revenues from international sales or impact our ability to increase international sales in the future. We may acquire other businesses, form joint ventures or make investments in other companies or technologies that could harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders' ownership, increase our debt or cause us to incur significant expense. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and assets, as well as technology licensing arrangements. We also may pursue strategic alliances that leverage our core technology and industry experience to expand our product offerings or distribution, or make investments in 49 Table of Contents other companies. We have recently experienced and may in the future experience losses related to the recognition of our portion of the net losses of equity method investees, and we may in the future experience impairment losses related to our investments in companies if we determine that the value of an investment is impaired. Losses related to our investments in other companies could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. We have no experience with respect to acquiring other companies and limited experience with respect to the formation of strategic alliances and joint ventures. If we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. Any future acquisitions by us also could result in significant write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. Integration of an acquired company also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. We may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license, strategic alliance, joint venture or investment. To finance any acquisitions or investments, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would dilute the ownership of our stockholders. Periods of upheaval in the capital markets and world economy have in the past, and may in the future, cause volatility in the market price of our common stock. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other companies for stock. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds for acquisitions through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Our marketable securities are subject to risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. We invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy in instruments which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. However, similar types of investments have in the past and may in the future experience losses in value or liquidity issues which differ from historical patterns. Should a portion of our marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. Such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may limit our ability to develop and commercialize new tests and technologies and expand our operations. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we expand our infrastructure, commercial operations and research and development activities. Specifically, we may need to raise capital to, among other things: •sustain commercialization of our Oncotype DX tests and enhancements to those tests; •fund commercialization of any future tests we may develop; •increase our selling and marketing efforts to drive market adoption and address competitive developments; •further expand our clinical laboratory operations; •expand our technologies into other areas of cancer or other diseases; •expand our research and development activities; •develop our genetics-focused subsidiary, InVitae Corporation; •acquire, license or invest in technologies, including next generation sequencing; 50 Table of Contents •acquire or invest in complementary businesses or assets; and •finance capital expenditures and general and administrative expenses. Our present and future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the rate of progress in establishing reimbursement arrangements with domestic and international third-party payors; •the cost of expanding our commercial and laboratory operations, including our selling and marketing efforts; •the rate of progress and cost of research and development activities associated with expansion of our Oncotype DX breast and colon cancer tests; •the rate of progress and cost of selling and marketing activities associated with establishing adoption of and reimbursement for our Oncotype DX colon and DCIS cancer tests; •the rate of progress and cost of research and development activities associated with products in research and early development focused on cancers other than breast and colon cancer; •the rate of progress and cost of research and development activities associated with next generation sequencing; •the costs of acquiring, licensing or investing in technologies, including next generation sequencing; •the cost of acquiring or investing in complementary businesses or assets; •costs related to future product launches; •the cost of acquiring or achieving access to tissue samples and technologies; •the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; •the effect of competing technological and market developments; •costs related to international expansion; •the cost and delays in product development as a result of any changes in regulatory oversight applicable to our products or operations; •the impact of changes in Federal, state and international taxation; and •the economic and other terms and timing of any collaborations, licensing or other arrangements into which we may enter or acquisitions we may seek to effect. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our stockholders could result. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities issued or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. The credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government. These events have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain. Accordingly, additional equity or debt financing might not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more research and development programs 51 Table of Contents or selling and marketing initiatives. In addition, we may have to work with a partner on one or more of our product or market development programs, which could lower the economic value of those programs to our company. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems, and any failure of these systems could harm our business. We depend on information technology, or IT, and telecommunications systems for significant aspects of our operations. In addition, our third-party billing and collections provider is dependent upon telecommunications and data systems provided by outside vendors and information it receives from us on a regular basis. These IT and telecommunications systems support a variety of functions, including test processing, sample tracking, quality control, customer service and support, billing and reimbursement, research and development activities, and our general and administrative activities. Failures or significant downtime of our IT or telecommunications systems or those used by our third-party service providers could prevent us from processing tests, providing test results to physicians, billing payors, processing reimbursement appeals, handling patient or physician inquiries, conducting research and development activities, and managing the administrative aspects of our business. Any disruption or loss of IT or telecommunications systems on which critical aspects of our operations depend could have an adverse effect on our business and our product revenues. Security breaches, loss of data and other disruptions could compromise sensitive information related to our business and expose us to liability, which could adversely affect our business and our reputation. In the ordinary course of our business, we and our third-party billing and collections provider collect and store sensitive data, including legally-protected health information, credit card information, personally identifiable information about our employees, intellectual property, and our proprietary business information and that of our customers, payors and collaboration partners. The secure processing, storage, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy, and we devote significant resources to protecting such information. Although we take measures to protect sensitive information from unauthorized access or disclosure, our information technology and infrastructure, and that of our third-party billing and collections provider, may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or viruses or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach or interruption could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed by unauthorized parties, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, and regulatory penalties. Unauthorized access, loss or dissemination could also disrupt our operations, including our ability to process tests, provide test results, bill payors or patients, process claims and appeals, provide customer assistance services, conduct research and development activities, collect, process and prepare company financial information, provide information about our tests and other patient and physician education and outreach efforts through our website, manage the administrative aspects of our business and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer, health-related and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain, contradictory and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices. If so, this could result in government imposed fines or orders requiring that we change our practices, which could adversely affect our business. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices and compliance procedures in a manner adverse to our business. 52 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in some cases, a sole supplier, for some of our laboratory instruments and materials and may not be able to find replacements in the event our suppliers no longer supply that equipment or those materials, or those materials do not meet our quality specifications. We rely solely on Applied Biosystems, a division of Life Technologies Corporation, to supply and service some of the laboratory equipment on which we perform our tests. We periodically forecast our needs for laboratory equipment and enter into standard purchase orders with Applied Biosystems based on these forecasts. We believe that there are relatively few equipment manufacturers other than Applied Biosystems that are currently capable of supplying and servicing the equipment necessary for our Oncotype DX platform. Even if we were to identify other suppliers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into agreements with such suppliers on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. If we should encounter delays or difficulties in securing from Applied Biosystems the quality and quantity of equipment we require for our tests, we may need to reconfigure our test processes, which would result in delays in commercialization or an interruption in sales. If any of these events occur, our business and operating results could be harmed. We are also required to indemnify Applied Biosystems against any damages caused by any legal action or proceeding brought by a third party against Applied Biosystems for damages caused by our failure to obtain required approval with any regulatory agency. We also rely on several sole suppliers for certain laboratory reagents and materials which we use to perform our tests. While we have developed alternate sourcing strategies for these materials, we cannot be certain that these strategies will be effective. If we should encounter delays or difficulties in securing these laboratory materials, or if the materials do not meet our quality specifications, delays in commercialization or an interruption in sales could occur. We may be unable to manage our future growth effectively, which could make it difficult to execute our business strategy. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on management, including the need to identify, recruit, train and integrate additional employees. In addition, rapid and significant growth may place strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure, including customer service and our clinical reference laboratory. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it may be difficult for us to execute our business strategy. If we were sued for product liability or professional liability, we could face substantial liabilities that exceed our resources. The marketing, sale and use of our tests could lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that our tests failed to perform as it was designed. We may also be subject to liability for errors in the test results we provide to physicians or for a misunderstanding of, or inappropriate reliance upon, the information we provide. For example, physicians sometimes order our Oncotype DX breast cancer test for patients who do not have the same specific clinical attributes indicated on the report form as those for which the test provides clinical experience information from validation studies. It is our practice to offer medical consultation to physicians ordering our test for such patients, including patients with ER- breast cancers. A product liability or professional liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming for us to defend. Although we maintain product and professional liability insurance, we cannot assure you that our insurance would fully protect us from the financial impact of defending against product liability or professional liability claims. Any product liability or professional liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. Additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, result in the recall of our products, or cause current clinical partners to terminate existing agreements and potential clinical partners to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. 53 Table of Contents If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we could be liable for damages. Our activities currently require the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials, hazardous materials and chemicals and may in the future require the use of radioactive compounds. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to employees or third parties from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources or any applicable insurance coverage we may have. Additionally, we are subject on an ongoing basis to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations may become significant and could negatively affect our operating results. We must implement additional and expensive finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy public company reporting requirements, which will increase our costs and require additional management resources. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements has increased our costs and required additional management resources. We will need to continue to implement additional finance, accounting, and business operating systems, procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy existing reporting requirements. If we fail to maintain or implement adequate controls, if we are unable to complete the required Section 404 assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting in future Form 10-K filings, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future Form 10-K filings, our ability to obtain additional financing could be impaired. In addition, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting and in the accuracy of our periodic reports filed under the Exchange Act. A lack of investor confidence in the reliability and accuracy of our public reporting could cause our stock price to decline. We are subject to increasingly complex taxation rules and practices, which may affect how we conduct our business and our results of operations. As our business grows, we are required to comply with increasingly complex taxation rules and practices. We are subject to tax in multiple U.S. tax jurisdictions and in foreign tax jurisdictions as we expand internationally. The development of our tax strategies requires additional expertise and may impact how we conduct our business. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by lapses of the availability of the U.S. research and development tax credit or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Furthermore, we provide for certain tax liabilities that involve significant judgment. We are subject to the examination of our tax returns by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which could focus on our intercompany transfer pricing methodology as well as other matters. If our tax strategies are ineffective or we are not in compliance with domestic and international tax laws, our financial position, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 