ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are an exploration stage company with no current source of revenue. Our ability to continue in business depends upon our continued ability to obtain significant financing from external sources and the success of our exploration efforts, none of which can be assured. We were incorporated in April 2000 and are still an exploration stage company. Our operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in exploration stage companies with no revenues or operating income. Our potential for success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with a new business, especially the oil and gas exploration business, and in particular the deep, wildcat wells in which we are engaged in Israel. We cannot warrant or provide any assurance that our business objectives will be accomplished. We have historically depended entirely upon capital infusions from the issuance of equity securities to provide the cash needed to fund our operations. Between June 2009 and December 2010, we raised approximately US$ 70 million in the public equity market from rights offerings of our common stock and warrants to our stockholders. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to raise funds in the public (or private) equity markets. Our ability to continue in business depends upon our continued ability to obtain significant financing from external sources and the success of our exploration efforts. Any reduction in our ability to raise equity capital in the future would force us to reallocate funds from other planned uses and could have a significant negative effect on our business plans and operations, including our ability to continue our current exploration activities. All of our audited financial statements since inception have contained a statement by the auditors that raises substantial doubt about us being able to continue as a "going concern" unless we are able to raise additional capital. 21 We will require substantial additional funds to drill additional wells and to realize our business plan Our planned work program is expensive. Our current cash resources are sufficient to allow us to reach the target depth of the exploratory well that we are currently drilling (the Ma’anit-Joseph #3 well), conduct any production testing that may be required thereon, undertake additional non-drilling exploratory activities in our current license areas and in the applied for license and permit areas and otherwise meet our drilling plans through December 31, 2011. In addition, as of March 7, 2011, we have outstanding publicly traded warrants exercisable through December 31, 2012 for cash proceeds payable to us of approximately $17,800,000. Unless we receive significant proceeds during 2011 from the exercise of these publicly traded warrants (of which no assurance can be provided), we anticipate needing to raise substantial additional capital in order to implement our multi-well drilling program and acquire a majority interest in an onshore rig. We have no commitments for any financing and no assurance can be provided that we will be able to raise funds when needed. We estimate that, when we are not actively drilling a well, our monthly expenditure is approximately $400,000 per month. However, when we are engaged in active drilling operations, as we currently are with Ma’anit Joseph #3 well, we estimate that there is an additional cost of approximately $75,000 per day (equivalent to approximately $2,250,000 per month). If there is turmoil in the credit and equity markets, then our ability to raise funds may be significant and adversely affected. Additional financing could cause your relative interest in our assets and potential earnings to be significantly diluted (unless you participated in such financings). Even if we have exploration success, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset the cost of dry holes and general and administrative expenses. We may not have a rig at our disposal following the completion of our currently drilled well and, unless we acquire control of a rig and/or make other appropriate arrangements, we may not be able to continue with our future drilling plans. We anticipate that we will have reached our target drilling depth on the Ma’anit-Joseph #3 well by late April 2011, assuming we do not encounter any additional technical difficulties. Depending on a number of factors, including the results of the Ma’anit-Joseph #3 well, the decision to be taken as to whether to re-enter the Elijah #3 well and the identification of additional appropriate drilling prospects in these license areas, the drilling rig currently at our disposal may be moved out of Israel. Unless we reach an understanding with the current operators of this rig or identify and obtain access to an alternative rig, of which no assurance can be provided, we may not be able to continue with our drilling plans without substantial delay. Any delay in our drilling timetables can have a material adverse effect on the implementation of our business plan. Our future operations may be adversely affected by the recent changes in Israel’s current tax policy with respect to oil and gas resources. Under Israeli law, we are required to pay royalties to the Government of Israel on the gross production of any oil and gas that we may discover in Israel. The current royalty rate to which we are subject is 12.5% of the produced reserves. To date, no proved reserves have yet been discovered on our license areas, and therefore we have not had any outstanding obligation with respect to royalty payments. In 2010, the Finance Minister of Israel established an advisory committee to study the country’s fiscal policy as it relates to the upstream oil and natural gas sector, as well as various options, including an increase in royalties or cancellation of tax incentives. In January 2011, the Finance Ministry advisory committee issued its final recommendations which included cancellation of currently-existing tax incentives, including the depletion allowance, and imposition of a special levy ranging from 20% to 50%, on oil and gas profits after a return on investment has been achieved. The existing rate of royalties of 12.5% remained unchanged. At this time we are uncertain of the final outcome of these recommendations, which must be voted on by Israel’s Parliament, and are unable to predict the complete economic impact any change in Israel’s fiscal regime would have on our operations or future drilling activities. 22 We are not currently in full compliance with the terms of the one of our licenses which may result in the loss or forfeiture of such license. The loss or forfeiture of such license may have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. We currently hold two petroleum exploration licenses, the Joseph License and the Asher-Menashe License, covering approximately 162,100 acres onshore in the State of Israel between Netanya in the south and Haifa in the north. Under the terms of the Asher-Menashe License, as extended, we were required, among other things, to identify a new drilling prospect in the Asher-Menashe License area by April 1, 2011 and sign, by May 1, 2011, a drilling contract to drill such prospect to the Permian-age geological layer. As discussed above, based on the processing, interpretation and analysis of the 2-D seismic data in the Elijah #3 project area (in the Asher-Menashe License Area), we determined that the volcanics in the Asher-Menashe License area are substantially greater (i.e., thicker and deeper) than originally estimated. Accordingly, further engineering work is needed to determine if the Elijah #3 well can be successfully re-drilled (or should be) through this dense volcanic formation or even whether we can identify a viable drilling prospect within the Asher-Menashe License area. Currently, and since August 2010, the drilling rig available to us and all of our accompanying available drilling equipment and resources have been exclusively dedicated to reaching the Permian-age target in the Ma’anit-Joseph #3 well (in the Joseph License Area), which we expect to reach in late April 2011, assuming we do not encounter any further technical difficulties. Following the completion of the drilling of the Ma’anit-Joseph #3 well, the analysis of the well and the completion of any testing procedures that we may then deem necessary or desirable (in light of the results of our analysis), we anticipate being in a position to take the appropriate decision as to our next step in the Asher-Menashe License area. For the reasons noted above, we will not identify a new drilling prospect in the Asher-Menashe License area by the required date of April 1, 2011, the result of which is that we are not in full compliance with the terms of the Asher-Menashe License. In fact, the results of the Ma’anit Joseph #3 well may be determinative as to whether we will re-enter the Elijah #3 well and may inform any subsequent decision as to the identity and location of a new drilling prospect, if any, in the Asher-Menashe License area. Our partial non-compliance with the license terms could result in the loss or forfeiture of the Asher-Menashe License and may jeapordize our obtaining any subsequent rights that we may want to have in such license area. Any such development may have an adverse material effect on our business and prospects. Depending on the results of our current exploratory well, the Ma’anit-Joseph #3 well, we may elect to surrender some or all of the Joseph License area. We cannot, at this time, assess the effects, if any, that the loss or forfeiture of such license may have on our business or prospects. Our work program calls for the drilling of the Ma’anit-Joseph #3 well to a depth of approximately 19,357 feet (5,900 meters) on the Joseph License. We anticipate reaching the Permian-age target depth in late April 2011, assuming that we do not encounter any further technical difficulties. We will then select the intervals (if any) that appear to be hydrocarbon bearing and carry out testing procedures. If we ultimately determine that the Ma’anit-Joseph #3 well does not contain any commercial quantity of hydrocarbons, we will need to decide on our subsequent activity in the Joseph License area. We may, based on these results and other factors, determine to surrender the Ma’anit Joseph License and/or request a new permit for certain of the acreage currently subject to the license so that we can undertake further geologic studies (but not drilling) in such part of the current license area that our geologists conclude contains the greatest potential for hydrocarbons. Thus, subsequent developments may lead us to surrender or abandon the Ma’anit-Joseph License and also surrender, forfeit or lose the Asher-Menashe License. Our Jordan Valley License Application is to be considered by the Petroleum Commissioner's Committee in their March 2011 meeting. The Dead Sea License Application as well as the Zebulun Permit Application which we submitted to the Petroleum Commissioner will not be considered until Mid-Summer to late Fall of 2011 and no assurance can be provided that we will be awarded all (or any part) of these application. The loss of our exploration rights, even on a temporary basis, may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. 23 We rely on independent experts and technical or operational service providers over whom we may have limited control. The success of our oil and gas exploration efforts is dependent upon the efforts of various third parties that we do not control. These third parties provide critical engineering, geological, geophysical and other scientific analytical services, including 2-D seismic imaging technology to explore for and develop oil and gas prospects. Given our small size and limited resources, we do not have all the required expertise on staff. As a result, we rely upon various companies and other third persons to assist us in identifying desirable hydrocarbon prospects to acquire and to provide us with technical assistance and services. In addition, we rely upon the owners and operators of drilling rigs and related equipment. The drilling rig and much of its crew which we are currently using to drill the Ma’anit-Joseph #3 well and which we used to drill most of our previous exploratory wells is operated by AME, a subsidiary company of the Sayer Group. Although we have developed relationships with AME and the Sayer Group and with a number of other third-party service providers, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to rely on such persons. If any of these relationships with third-party service providers are terminated or are unavailable on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our limited control over the activities and business practices of these third parties, any inability on our part to maintain satisfactory commercial relationships with them, their limited availability or their failure to provide quality services could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We typically commence exploration drilling operations without undertaking extensive analytical testing thereby potentially increasing the risk (and associated costs) of drilling a non-producing well. Larger oil and gas exploration companies typically conduct extensive analytical pre drilling testing. These include 3-D seismic imaging, the drilling of an expendable “pilot” well or “stratigraphic test” to collect data (logs, cores, fluid samples, pressure data) to determine if drilling a well capable of producing oil or gas well (full completion with casing and well testing) is justified. The use of pilot or stratigraphic tests is often used in areas where there is little or no offset well data, like Israel, where our exploration license and permits areas are located. While 3-D seismic imaging data is more useful than 2-D data in identifying potential new drilling prospect, its acquisition and processing costs are many multiples greater than that for 2-D data, and GII, our primary provider of geophysical data, has limited ability to acquire and process onshore 3-D data. In addition to using 2-D seismic technology prior to drilling, we have historically also utilized gravity and magnetic data, built cross section maps from offset wells and utilized geophysical analysis from similar geologic targets. We believe that the additional months, delays and associated costs associated with more extensive pre-drilling testing typically undertaken by larger oil and gas exploration companies is not necessarily justified when drilling vertical exploration wells (as we have historically been doing). Nonetheless, the absence of more extensive pre-drilling testing may potentially increase the risk of drilling a non-producing well, which would in turn result in increased costs and expenses. Additionally, Zion is typically engaged in drilling very deep onshore wildcat wells in Israel where only approximately 500 total wells have ever been drilled, the vast majority of which are relatively substantially shallower. As such, exploration risks are inherently very substantial. A substantial and extended decline in oil or natural gas prices could adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our unproved oil & gas assets. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely. Fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas will affect many aspects of our business, including our ability to attract capital to finance our operations, our cost of capital, and the value of our unproved oil and natural gas properties. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a wide variety of additional factors (such as the current political turmoil in the Middle East) that are beyond our control, such as the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls, technological advances affecting energy consumption, and domestic and foreign governmental regulations. Significant and extended reductions in oil and natural gas prices could require us to reduce our capital expenditures and impair the carrying value of our assets. 24 If we are successful in finding commercial quantities of oil and/or gas, our revenues, operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital will depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Declines in oil and gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and operating results. Lower oil and gas prices also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we could produce economically. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile, making it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of oil and gas. We may continue to recognize substantial write-downs with respect to well impairment costs. We account for our oil and gas property costs using the full-cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Accordingly, all costs associated with acquisition, exploration and development of oil and gas reserves, including directly related overhead costs, are capitalized. We record an investment impairment charge when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary. We drilled the Ma’anit-Rehoboth #2 well to a depth of 17,913 feet (5,460 meters). Our testing procedures conclusively determined in April 2010 that the well was currently incapable of producing oil and/or gas in commercial quantities, so we temporarily suspended operations on the well and have recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $22,022,000 to our unproved oil and gas properties for the quarter ending June 30, 2010. As of January 2010, we drilled the Elijah #3 well to a depth of 10,938 feet (3,334 meters), however, as certain drill pipe became stuck in the well, the well was temporarily suspended. In June 2010, we acquired approximately 20 miles (32 kilometers) of additional field seismic data to help us to resolve certain questions regarding the geology of the area surrounding the Elijah #3 well. The Elijah #3 well remains temporarily suspended. We currently anticipate making the determination relating to the Elijah #3 well after we complete drilling the Ma’anit Joseph #3 well to the target depth, which we expect to reach in late April 2011, assuming we do not encounter additional technical difficulties. The determination relating to the Elijah #3 well will partly depend on the results from drilling the Ma'anit-Joseph #3 well and may require us to abandon the Elijah #3 well or lead us to restart operations on it. Abandonment of properties is accounted for as adjustments to capitalized costs. The net capitalized costs are subject to a “ceiling test,” which limits such costs to the aggregate of the estimated present value of future net revenues from proved reserves discounted at ten percent based on current economic and operating conditions, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. The recoverability of amounts capitalized for oil and gas properties is dependent upon the identification of economically recoverable reserves, together with obtaining the necessary financing to exploit such reserves and the achievement of profitable operations. We review our unproved oil and gas properties periodically to determine whether they have been impaired. An impairment allowance is provided on an unproved property when we determine that the property will not be developed. Any impairment charge incurred is recorded in accumulated depletion, impairment and amortization to reduce our recorded basis in the asset. 25 The failure to obtain extensions of our existing exploration licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The Asher-Menashe License had an initial three-year term which commenced on June 10, 2007 and ran through June 9, 2010. It was extended by one year to June 9, 2011 and may be extended for up to an additional three years as provided by the Petroleum Law. The license extensions are only granted in increments of a maximum of one year. The Joseph License had an initial three-year term which commenced on October 11, 2007 and ran through October 10, 2010. It was extended by one year to October 10, 2011 and may be extended for an additional three years as provided by the Petroleum Law. While we are not aware of any reason that may prevent the granting of future extensions, no assurance can be given that such extensions will be forthcoming. The Petroleum Commissioner’s refusal to extend a license, or even delay in such extensions, can have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The failure to obtain the approval of applications submitted for new exploration licenses and exploration permits would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects On February 17, 2011, we applied for a new license and permit covering most of the territory under our recently expired Issachar-Zebulun Permit. On or about the same time, we also filed an application for a license on areas in the vicinity of the Dead Sea. As of the filing of this report on Form 10-K, these applications are pending before the Petroleum Commissioner. No assurance can be provided that we will be awarded these applied for licenses and the permit. The Petroleum Commissioner’s refusal to award these applications can have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our lack of diversification increases the risk of an investment in us, and our financial condition and results of operations may deteriorate if we fail to diversify. Our business focus is on oil and gas exploration on a limited number of properties in Israel. As a result, we lack diversification, in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. We will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate than we would if our business were more diversified. If we are unable to diversify our operations, our financial condition and results of operations could deteriorate. We currently have no proved reserves or current production and we may never have any. We do not have any proved reserves or current production of oil or gas. We cannot assure you that any wells will be completed or produce oil or gas in commercially profitable quantities. We have a history of losses and we cannot assure you that we will ever be profitable. We incurred net losses of $27,658,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, $4,424,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009, $4,018,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008, and $56,487,000 for period from April 6, 2000 (inception) to December 31, 2010. We cannot provide any assurance that we will ever be profitable. Oil and gas exploration is an inherently risky business. Exploratory drilling involves enormous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be discovered. Even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data analysis and other computer simulation techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in trying to identify subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically available. The risk analysis techniques we use in evaluating potential drilling sites rely on subjective judgments of our personnel and consultants. Additionally, Zion is typically engaged in drilling very deep onshore wildcat wells in Israel where only approximately 500 total wells have ever been drilled, the vast majority of which are relatively substantially shallower. As such, exploration risks are inherently very substantial. 26 Operating hazards and uninsured risks with respect to the oil and gas operations may have material adverse effects on our operations. Our exploration and, if successful, development and production operations are subject to all of the risks normally incident to the exploration for and the development and production of oil and gas, including blowouts, cratering, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution and other environmental and operating risks. These hazards could result in substantial losses due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. While as a matter of practice we take out insurance against some or all of these risks, such insurance may not cover the particular hazard and may not be sufficient to cover all losses. The occurrence of a significant event adversely affecting any of the oil and gas properties in which we have an interest could have a material adverse affect on us, could materially affect our continued operation and could expose us to material liability. Political risks may adversely affect our operations and/or inhibit our ability to raise capital. Our operations are concentrated in Israel and could be directly affected by political, economic and military conditions in Israel. Efforts to secure a lasting peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors and Palestinian residents have been underway since Israel became a country in 1948 and the future of these peace efforts is still uncertain. Kibbutz Ma'anit (where we drilled our first and second wells and are currently drilling our third well) is in an area adjacent to Israeli Arab towns where anti-Israeli rioting broke out in late 2000. On December 27, 2008, Israel began a military offensive against the Hamas terrorist organization based in Gaza. (Gaza is in the South and our license areas are in the North of Israel.) Currently, a cease-fire is in effect. In recent weeks, civil unrest, which initially began in Tunisia and then spread to Egypt, have resulted in changes in the Tunisian and Egyptian governments, has spread to other areas in the Middle East. There have been numerous demonstrations by protestors demanding a regime change in their country, and some of the demonstrations have been marked by violence. Recently, the King of Jordan reconstituted his government after protestors demanded economic and political reforms. Civil unrest could continue to spread throughout the region and involve other areas such as the Gaza Strip or nations such as Syria, Yemen, Lebanon or others. Such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in intensity, could lead to civil wars; regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to the US and/or Israel, such as has previously occurred in the region; violations of the 1979 Egypt-Israel Peace Treaty; or regional conflict. At this time, we are uncertain of the outcome of these events. However, prolonged and/or widespread regional conflict in the Middle East could have the following results, among others: · capital market reassessment of risk and subsequent redeployment of capital to more stable areas making it more difficult for us or our partners to obtain financing for potential development projects; · security concerns in Israel, making it more difficult for our personnel or supplies to enter or exit the country; · security concerns leading to evacuation of our personnel; · damage to or destruction of our wells, production facilities, receiving terminals or other operating assets; · inability of our service and equipment providers to deliver items necessary for us to conduct our operations in, resulting in delays; and · lack of availability of drilling rig and experienced crew, oilfield equipment or services if third party providers decide to exit the region. Loss of property and/or interruption of our business plans resulting from hostile acts could have a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow. In addition, we may not have enough insurance to cover any loss of property or other claims resulting from these risks. 27 We face various risks associated with the trend toward increased activism against oil and gas exploration and development activities. Opposition toward oil and gas drilling and development activity has been growing globally and is particularly pronounced in OECD countries which include the US, the UK and Israel. Companies in the oil and gas industry, such as us, are often the target of activist efforts from both individuals and non-governmental organizations regarding safety, human rights, environmental compliance and business practices. Future activist efforts could result in the following: · delay or denial of drilling permits; · shortening of lease terms or reduction in lease size; · restrictions on installation or operation of gathering or processing facilities; · restrictions on the use of certain operating practices, such as hydraulic fracturing; · legal challenges or lawsuits; · damaging publicity about us; · increased costs of doing business; · reduction in demand for our products; and · other adverse affects on our ability to develop our properties and expand production. Our need to incur costs associated with responding to these initiatives or complying with any resulting new legal or regulatory requirements resulting from these activities that are substantial and not adequately provided for, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic risks may adversely affect our operations and/or inhibit our ability to raise additional capital. Economically, our operations in Israel may be subject to: · exchange rate fluctuations; · royalty and tax increases and other risks arising out of Israeli State sovereignty over the mineral rights in Israel and its taxing authority; and · changes in Israel's economy that could cause the legislation of oil and gas price controls. Consequently, our operations may be substantially affected by local economic factors beyond our control, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance and prospects. Legal risks could negatively affect Zion’s value. Legally, our operations in Israel may be subject to: · changes in the Petroleum Law resulting in modification of license and permit rights; · adoption of new legislation relating to the terms and conditions pursuant to which operations in the energy sector may be conducted; · changes in laws and policies affecting operations of foreign-based companies in Israel; and · changes in governmental energy and environmental policies or the personnel administering them. The Israeli Ministry of National Infrastructures is considering proposed legislation relating to licensing requirements for entities engaged in the fuel sector that, if adopted as currently proposed, may result in our having to obtain additional licenses to market and sell hydrocarbons that may be discovered by us. We have been advised by the Ministry that they do not intend to deprive a holder of petroleum rights under the Petroleum Law of its right under that law to sell hydrocarbons discovered and produced under its petroleum rights. See “BUSINESS—Proposed Legislation” at page 19. We cannot now predict whether or in what form the proposed legislation may be adopted or, if adopted, its possible impact on our operations. 28 Further, in the event of a legal dispute in Israel, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of Israeli courts or we may not be successful in subjecting persons who are not United States residents to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States, either of which could adversely affect the outcome of a dispute. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is considering proposed legislation relating to polluted materials, including their production, treatment, handling, storage and transportation, that may affect land or water resources. Persons engaged in activities involving these types of materials will be required to prepare environmental impact statements and remediation plans either prior to commencing activities or following the occurrence of an event that may cause pollution to land or water resources or endanger public health. See “BUSINESS—Environmental Matters” at page 18. We do now know and cannot predict whether any legislation in this area will be enacted and, if so, in what form and which of its provisions, if any, will relate to and affect our activities, how and to what extent. Our petroleum rights (including licenses and permits) could be canceled, terminated or not extended, and we would not be able to successfully execute our business plan. Any license or other petroleum right we hold or may be granted is granted for fixed periods and requires compliance with a work program detailed in the license or other petroleum right. If we do not fulfill the relevant work program due to inadequate funding or for any other reason, the Israeli government may terminate the license or any other petroleum right before its scheduled expiration date. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to obtain an extension to this if in fact we are unable to begin drilling by such date. There are limitations on the transfer of interests in our petroleum rights, which could impair our ability to raise additional funds to execute our business plan. The Israeli government has the right to approve any transfer of rights and interests in any license or other petroleum right we hold or may be granted and any mortgage of any license or other petroleum rights to borrow money. If we attempt to raise additional funds through borrowings or joint ventures with other companies and are unable to obtain required approvals from the government, the value of your investment could be significantly diluted or even lost. Our dependence on the limited contractors, equipment and professional services available in Israel may result in increased costs and possibly material delays in our work schedule. Due to the lack of competitive resources in Israel, costs for our operations may be more expensive than costs for similar operations in other parts of the world. We are also more likely to incur delays in our drilling schedule and be subject to a greater risk of failure in meeting our required work schedule. Similarly, some of the oil field personnel we need to undertake our planned operations are not necessarily available in Israel or available on short notice for work in Israel. Any or all of the factors specified above may result in increased costs and delays in the work schedule. Our dependence on Israeli local licenses and permits may require more funds than we have budgeted and may cause delays in our work schedule. In connection with drilling operations, we are subject to a number of Israeli local licenses and permits. Some of these are issued by the Israeli security forces, the Civil Aviation Authority, the Israeli Water Commission, the Israel Lands Authority, the holders of the surface rights in the lands on which we intend to conduct drilling operations, including Kibbutz Ma'anit, Kibbutz Ein Carmel, local and regional planning commissions and environmental authorities. 29 The surface rights to the drill site on which we are drilling the Ma’anit- Joseph #3 well are held under a long-term lease by Kibbutz Ma'anit. The rights are owned by the State of Israel and administered by the Israel Lands Authority. Permission has been granted to Zion by both Kibbutz Ma'anit and the Israel Lands Authority for the use of the surface rights. The surface rights to the drill site of the Elijah #3 well are held under a long-term lease by Kibbutz Ein Carmel. The rights are owned by the State of Israel and administered by the Israel Lands Authority. Permission has been granted to Zion by both Kibbutz Ein Carmel and the Israel Lands Authority for the use of the surface rights. In the event of a commercial discovery and depending on the nature of the discovery and the production and related distribution equipment necessary to produce and sell the discovered hydrocarbons, we will be subject to additional licenses and permits, including from various departments in the Ministry of National Infrastructures, regional and local planning commissions, the environmental authorities and the Israel Lands Authority. If we are unable to obtain some or all of these permits or the time required to obtain them is longer than anticipated, we may have to alter or delay our planned work schedule, which would increase our costs. If we are successful in finding commercial quantities of oil and/or gas, our operations will be subject to laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment, which can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of our doing business. Many Israeli laws and regulations require permits for the operation of various facilities, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations could subject us to fines, injunctions or both. If compliance with environmental regulations is more expensive than anticipated, it could adversely impact the profitability of our business. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are inherent in oil and gas operations. It is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from oil and gas exploration and production, would result in substantial costs and liabilities. This could also cause our insurance premiums to be significantly greater than anticipated. See “BUSINESS – Environmental Matters” at page 18. Earnings will be diluted due to charitable contributions and key employee incentive plan. We are legally bound to fund in the form of a royalty interest or equivalent net operating profits interest, 6% of our gross sales revenues, if any, to two charitable foundations. In addition, we may allocate 1.5% royalty interest or equivalent net operating profits interest to a key employee incentive plan designed as bonus compensation over and above our executive compensation payments. This means that the total royalty burden on our property (including the government royalty of 12.5%) may be up to 20% of gross revenue. As our expenses increase with respect to the amount of sales, these donations and allocation could significantly dilute future earnings and, thus, depress the price of the common stock. The exercise of currently outstanding warrants and options or an offering under our shelf registration statement may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In connection with our Follow On Public Offering which we completed in January 2009, we issued warrants (trading on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol ZNWAW) to purchase up to 666,343 shares of our common stock at a per share exercise price of $7.00, exercisable through January 31, 2012. The shares underlying these warrants have been registered and, accordingly, any shares issued upon the exercise of these warrants will be immediately resalable on the open market. As of March 7, 2011, warrants (trading under the symbol ZNWAW) for 506,079 shares of our common stock were outstanding. 30 In connection with our Rights Offering which we completed on December 15, 2010, we issued warrants (trading on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol ZNWAZ) to purchase up to 3,642,821 shares of our common stock at a per share exercise price of $4.00, exercisable through December 31, 2012. The shares underlying these warrants have been registered and, accordingly, any shares issued upon the exercise of these warrants will be immediately resalable on the open market. As of March 7, 2011, warrants (trading with the symbol ZNWAZ) for 3,567,561 shares of our common stock are outstanding. Additionally, as of March 7, 2011, we had employee stock options outstanding to purchase 737,665 shares of common stock at prices ranging between $0.01 and $8.25 per share. The exercise or possibility of exercise of outstanding warrants and employee stock options, or any offering under the S-3 shelf registration statement that we may complete, could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock, and you may experience dilution to your holdings. Cash dividends will not be paid to shareholders for the foreseeable future. You may receive little or no cash or stock dividends on your shares of common stock. The board of directors has not directed the payment of any dividend, does not anticipate paying dividends on the shares for the foreseeable future and intends to retain any future earnings to the extent necessary to develop and expand our business. Payment of cash dividends, if any, will depend, among other factors, on our earnings, capital requirements, and the general operating and financial condition, and will be subject to legal limitations on the payment of dividends out of paid-in capital. Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market for our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results, • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors, • conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry, • the success of our operating strategy, and • the operating and stock performance of other comparable companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. No assurance can be provided that you will be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you acquired those shares in this offering. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will increase to the per share price at which the Unit was offered or that the market price of common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. 31 Future sales of our common stock may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, of which there were 25,043,078 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 7, 2011. An additional 4,979,758 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and options previously issued, including the warrants issued in connection with our follow-on public offering which terminated on January 9, 2009 and our most recent rights offering which we completed in December 2010. The exercise of these warrants and/or the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in connection with the above would dilute the interest in our company represented by each share of common stock and may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 