ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks that we have highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial conditions or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline, and our stockholders may lose part or all of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have Substantial Customer Concentration, with One Customer Accounting for a Substantial Portion of our 2007 Revenues. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenues from one customer, AT&T. Our relationship with AT&T dates back to January 2001 when we began providing service to AT&T Wireless, which was subsequently acquired by Cingular Wireless (now known as AT&T Mobility) and is now a division of AT&T Corp. For the year ended December 31, 2007, AT&T accounted for approximately 76% of our revenues, compared to 66% for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Our five largest customers, AT&T, Vonage, Level 3 Communications, Time Warner Cable and Cablevision, accounted for approximately 95% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to 95% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. If We Do Not Adapt to Rapid Technological Change in the Communications Industry, We Could Lose Customers or Market Share. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new service offerings. Significant technological changes could make our technology and services obsolete, less marketable or less competitive. We must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving the features, functionality, reliability and responsiveness of our transaction management services, and by developing new features, services and applications to meet changing customer needs. We may not be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way. Our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers and/or market share. The Success of Our Business Depends on the Continued Growth of Consumer and Business Transactions Related to Communications Services on the Internet. The future success of our business depends upon the continued growth of consumer and business transactions on the Internet, including attracting consumers who have historically purchased wireless services and devices through traditional retail stores. Specific factors that could deter consumers from purchasing wireless services and devices on the Internet include concerns about buying wireless devices without face-to-face interaction with sales personnel and the ability to physically handle and examine the devices. Our business growth would be impeded if the performance or perception of the Internet was harmed by security problems such as “viruses,” “worms” and other malicious programs, reliability issues arising from outages and damage to Internet infrastructure, delays in development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, increased costs, decreased accessibility and quality of service, or increased government regulation and taxation of Internet activity. The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant user and traffic growth, which has, at times, caused user frustration with slow access and download times. If Internet activity grows faster than Internet infrastructure or if the Internet infrastructure is otherwise unable to support the demands placed on it, or if hosting capacity becomes scarce, our business growth may be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Compromises to Our Privacy Safeguards Could Impact Our Reputation. Names, addresses, telephone numbers, credit card data and other personal identification information, or PII, is collected, processed and stored in our systems. The steps we have taken to protect PII may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation or improper disclosure of such PII. If such misappropriation or disclosure were to occur, our business could be harmed through reputational injury, litigation and possible damages claimed by the affected end customers. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information could deter consumers from transacting business with us on the Internet. Fraudulent Internet Transactions Could Negatively Impact Our Business. Our business may be exposed to risks associated with Internet credit card fraud and identity theft that could cause us to incur unexpected expenditures and loss of revenues. Under current credit card practices, a merchant is liable for fraudulent credit card transactions when, as is the case with the transactions we process, that merchant does not obtain a cardholder’s signature. Although our CSP customers currently bear the risk for a fraudulent credit card transaction, in the future we may be forced to share some of that risk and the associated costs with our CSP customers. To the extent that technology upgrades or other expenditures are required to prevent credit card fraud and identity theft, we may be required to bear the costs associated with such expenditures. In addition, to the extent that credit card fraud and/or identity theft cause a decline in business transactions over the Internet generally, both the business of the CSP and our business could be adversely affected. If the Wireless Services Industry Experiences a Decline in Subscribers, Our Business May Suffer. The wireless services industry has faced an increasing number of challenges, including a slowdown in new subscriber growth. Revenues from services performed for customers in the wireless services industry accounted for 76% of our revenues in 2007 and 65% in 2006. A continued slowdown in subscriber growth in the wireless services industry could adversely affect our business growth. The Consolidation in the Communications Industry Can Reduce the Number of Customers and Adversely Affect Our Business. The communications industry continues to experience consolidation and an increased formation of alliances among communications service providers and between communications service providers and other entities. Should one of our significant customers consolidate or enter into an alliance with an entity and decide to either use a different service provider or to manage its transactions internally, this could have a negative material impact on our business. These consolidations and alliances may cause us to lose customers or require us to reduce prices as a result of enhanced customer leverage, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions. We may not be able to expand our customer base to make up any revenue declines if we lose customers or if our transaction volumes decline. If We Fail to Compete Successfully With Existing or New Competitors, Our Business Could Be Harmed. If we fail to compete successfully with established or new competitors, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The communications industry is highly competitive and fragmented, and we expect competition to increase. We compete with independent providers of information systems and services and with the in-house departments of communications services companies. Rapid technological changes, such as advancements in software integration across multiple and incompatible systems, and economies of scale may make it more economical for CSPs to develop their own in-house processes and systems, which may render some of our products and services less valuable or eventually obsolete. Our competitors include firms that provide comprehensive information systems and managed services solutions, systems integrators, clearinghouses and service bureaus. Many of our competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, substantial financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, and strong name recognition. 16 Table of Contents Current and potential competitors have established, and may establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address the needs of our prospective customers. In addition, our competitors have acquired, and may continue to acquire in the future, companies that may enhance their market offerings. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. These relationships and alliances may also result in transaction pricing pressure which could result in large reductions in the selling price of our services. Our competitors or our customers’ in-house solutions may also provide services at a lower cost, significantly increasing pricing pressure on us. We may not be able to offset the effects of this potential pricing pressure. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with established or new competitors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, a failure to offset competitive pressures brought about by competitors or in-house solutions developed by AT&T could result in a substantial reduction in or the outright termination of our contract with AT&T, which would have a significant negative material impact on our business. Failures or Interruptions of Our Systems and Services Could Materially Harm Our Revenues, Impair Our Ability to Conduct Our Operations and Damage Relationships with Our Customers. Our success depends on our ability to provide reliable services to our customers and process a high volume of transactions in a timely and effective manner. Although we have a disaster recovery facility in our Bridgewater, New Jersey corporate headquarters, our network operations are currently located in a single facility in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania that is susceptible to damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks and similar events. We could also experience failures or interruptions of our systems and services, or other problems in connection with our operations, as a result of: • damage to or failure of our computer software or hardware or our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties; • errors in the processing of data by our system; • computer viruses or software defects; • physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; • fire, cyberattack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event; • increased capacity demands or changes in systems requirements of our customers; or • errors by our employees or third-party service providers. In addition, our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Any interruptions in our systems or services could damage our reputation and substantially harm our business and results of operations. If We Fail to Meet Our Service Level Obligations Under Our Service Level Agreements, We Would Be Subject to Penalties and Could Lose Customers. We have service level agreements with many of our customers under which we guarantee specified levels of service availability. These arrangements involve the risk that we may not have adequately estimated the level of service we will in fact be able to provide. If we fail to meet our service level obligations under these agreements, we would be subject to penalties, which could result in higher than expected costs, decreased revenues and decreased operating margins. We could also lose customers. 17 Table of Contents The Financial and Operating Difficulties in the Telecommunications Sector May Negatively Affect Our Customers and Our Company. Recently, the telecommunications sector has been facing significant challenges resulting from excess capacity, poor operating results and financing difficulties. The sector’s financial status has at times been uncertain and access to debt and equity capital has been seriously limited. The impact of these events on us could include slower collection on accounts receivable, higher bad debt expense, uncertainties due to possible customer bankruptcies, lower pricing on new customer contracts, lower revenues due to lower usage by the end customer and possible consolidation among our customers, which will put our customers and operating performance at risk. In addition, because we operate in the communications sector, we may also be negatively impacted by limited access to debt and equity capital. Our Reliance on Third-Party Providers for Communications Software, Services, Hardware and Infrastructure Exposes Us to a Variety of Risks We Cannot Control. Our success depends on software, equipment, network connectivity and infrastructure hosting services supplied by our vendors and customers. In addition, we rely on third-party vendors to perform a substantial portion of our exception handling services. We may not be able to continue to purchase the necessary software, equipment and services from vendors on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to maintain current purchasing terms or ensure service availability with these vendors and customers, we may lose customers and experience an increase in costs in seeking alternative supplier services. Our business also depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of the infrastructure owned and managed by third parties, including our vendors and customers, that is used by our technology interoperability services, network services, number portability services, call processed services and enterprise solutions. We have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of a significant portion of that infrastructure and whether those third parties will upgrade or improve their software, equipment and services to meet our and our customers’ evolving requirements. We depend on these companies to maintain the operational integrity of our services. If one or more of these companies is unable or unwilling to supply or expand its levels of services to us in the future, our operations could be severely interrupted. In addition, rapid changes in the communications industry have led to industry consolidation. This consolidation may cause the availability, pricing and quality of the services we use to vary and could lengthen the amount of time it takes to deliver the services that we use. Our Failure to Protect Confidential Information and Our Network Against Security Breaches Could Damage Our Reputation and Substantially Harm Our Business and Results of Operations. A significant barrier to online commerce is concern about the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. The encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties on which we rely to securely transmit confidential information, including credit card numbers, may not adequately protect customer transaction data. Any compromise of our security could damage our reputation and expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability which could substantially harm our business and results of operation. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. If We Are Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights, Our Competitive Position Could Be Harmed or We Could Be Required to Incur Significant Expenses to Enforce Our Rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology rights, particularly our ActivationNow® and ConvergenceNow® platforms. We rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the reverse engineering of our solutions. Legal standards relating to the validity, 18 Table of Contents enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in other countries are uncertain and may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Consequently, we may be unable to prevent our proprietary technology from being exploited abroad, which could require costly efforts to protect our technology. Policing the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could materially harm our business. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Claims By Others That We Infringe Their Proprietary Technology Could Harm Our Business. Third parties could claim that our current or future products or technology infringe their proprietary rights. We expect that software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors providing software and services to the communications industry increases and overlaps occur. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our services. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers. We also generally indemnify our customers if our services infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. If anyone asserts a claim against us relating to proprietary technology or information, while we might seek to license their intellectual property, we might not be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or on any terms. In addition, any efforts to develop non-infringing technology could be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights or to develop non-infringing technology could prevent us from offering our services and could therefore seriously harm our business. We May Seek to Acquire Companies or Technologies, Which Could Disrupt Our Ongoing Business, Disrupt Our Management and Employees and Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We may acquire companies where we believe we can acquire new products or services or otherwise enhance our market position or strategic strengths. We have not made any acquisitions to date, and therefore our ability as an organization to make acquisitions is unproven. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we cannot be sure that they will ultimately enhance our products or strengthen our competitive position. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and harm our results of operations or financial condition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, which may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses, an increase in contingent liabilities or an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, each of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Expansion into International Markets May Be Subject to Uncertainties That Could Increase Our Costs to Comply with Regulatory Requirements in Foreign Jurisdictions, Disrupt Our Operations and Require Increased Focus from Our Management. Our growth strategy includes the growth of our operations in foreign jurisdictions. International operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including economic and political risks in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate, the difficulty of enforcing contracts and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, potential difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights in foreign countries and the difficulties 19 Table of Contents associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. Our Senior Management is Important to Our Customer Relationships, and the Loss of One or More of Our Senior Managers Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Business. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our senior management. We rely on our executive officers and senior management to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that members of our management team have established and maintain with our customers and our regulators contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations. The loss of any members of our senior management could materially impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts and otherwise manage our business. We Continue to Incur Significant Costs as a Result of Operating as a Public Company, and Our Management Is Required to Devote Substantial Time to New Compliance Initiatives. We have only operated as a public company since June 2006 and we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market’s National Market. These rules impose various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statements as of the end of each fiscal year. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, (“E&Y”), is required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the year. We successfully completed our assessment and obtained E&Y’s attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. Our continued compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance related issues. We currently do not have an internal audit group and we will evaluate the need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. In future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if E&Y cannot timely attest, there may be a loss of public confidence in our internal control, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to regulatory sanctions or investigations by the Nasdaq Stock Market’s National Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. Changes in, or Interpretations of, Accounting Principles Could Result in Unfavorable Accounting Charges. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our accounting principles that recently have been or may 20 Table of Contents be affected by changes in accounting principles are: (i) accounting for stock-based compensation; (ii) accounting for income taxes; (iii) accounting for business combinations and goodwill; and (iv) accounting for foreign currency translation. Changes in, or Interpretations of, Tax Rules and Regulations, Could Adversely Affect our Effective Tax Rates. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to the continued examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other domestic tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations, if any, to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We believe such estimates to be reasonable, but there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. If Securities or Industry Analysts Do Not Publish Research or Publish Inaccurate or Unfavorable Research About Our Business, Our Stock Price and Trading Volumes Could Decline. The trading market for our common stock will continue to depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If we do not continue to maintain adequate research coverage or if one of more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price may decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volumes to decline. Our Stock Price May Continue to Experience Significant Fluctuations. Our stock price, like that of other technology companies, continues to fluctuate greatly. Our stock price can be affected by many factors such as quarterly increases or decreases in our earnings, speculation in the investment community about our financial condition or results of operations and changes in revenue or earnings estimates, announcement of new services, technological developments, alliances, or acquisitions by us. Additionally, the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly in the future due to factors that are non-company specific, such as the decline in the United States and/or international economies, acts of terror against the United States, war or due to a variety of company specific factors, including quarter to quarter variations in our operating results, shortfalls in revenue, gross margin or earnings from levels by securities analysts and the other factors discussed in these risk factors. Delaware Law and Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws Could Make a Merger, Tender Offer or Proxy Contest Difficult, Therefore Depressing the Trading Price of Our Common Stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of the stock to elect some directors; 21 Table of Contents • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 