ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves risk. In evaluating the Company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report. Each of these risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. In addition, the ''Forward-Looking Statements’’ located in this Form 10-K, and the forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference herein describe additional uncertainties associated with our business. Risks Related to our Business and the Economy We have incurred significant losses. We expect future losses and we may never become consistently profitable. We have incurred significant losses in the past. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, we incurred net income (losses) from operations of ($14.2 million), $2.4 million and ($5.7 million), respectively. In addition, we had an accumulated deficit of $42.0 million at December 31, 2008. The fluctuations in oil and gas commodity prices are beyond our control and the mark-to-market accounting for related derivatives and the fair value accounting for oil and gas properties can have a significant non-cash impact on both earnings and retained earnings/accumulated deficit. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reach profitability on a consistent basis. 19 Table of Contents Our leverage may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, comply with the terms of our indebtedness or capitalize on business opportunities. At December 31, 2008, the principal amount of our total outstanding debt was $55.9 million. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates above current levels. Various limitations in our senior credit facility and 10.75% Secured Convertible Debentures may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to engage in some transactions and to capitalize on business opportunities. A significant downturn in our business of other development adversely affecting our cash flow could materially impair our ability to service our indebtedness. The instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain beneficial transactions. The agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on incurring additional debt, entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets, making investments and granting liens. Our leverage may adversely affect our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, future acquisitions, exploration or development activities, or to otherwise fully realize the value of our assets and opportunities because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness or to comply with any restrictive terms of our indebtedness. Our leverage may also make our results more susceptible to adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and may place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt. We may be unable to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets, and oil and gas commodity prices. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile due to a variety of factors, including significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the current weak economic conditions. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly, even more so for smaller companies like Teton. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduced, or in some cases ceased, to provide adequate borrowing base funding to borrowers. In addition, lending counterparties under existing revolving credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or development projects, or take advantage of other business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and future viability. Our revenues, profitability, future growth and reserve levels depend on reasonable prices for oil and natural gas. These prices also affect the amount of our cash flow available for capital expenditures and payments on our debt, and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow under our senior secured revolving credit facility (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) is subject to periodic borrowing base re-determinations based in part on changing expectations of future crude oil and natural gas prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. Among the factors that can cause fluctuations in such prices are: • domestic and foreign supply, and perceptions of supply, of oil and natural gas; • level of consumer demand; • political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; • weather conditions; • world-wide economic conditions; 20 Table of Contents • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; and • price and availability of alternative fuels. We periodically have hedges placed on our oil and gas production to attempt to mitigate this problem to some extent. See Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our credit facility has borrowing base restrictions, which could adversely affect our operations. Our revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by our lenders in their sole discretion, based upon, among other things, our level of proved reserves and the projected revenues from the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all lenders. Upon a downward adjustment of the borrowing base, if borrowings in excess of the revised borrowing base are outstanding, we could be forced to repay our indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base under the revolving credit facility if we do not have any substantial unpledged properties to pledge as additional collateral. We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments under our revolving credit facility. We may be unable to fully execute our growth strategy if we encounter illiquid capital markets. Our strategy contemplates growth through the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and gas reserves while maintaining a strong balance sheet. We have historically addressed our short and long-term liquidity needs through the use of cash flow provided by operating activities, borrowing under bank credit facilities and the issuance of equity. Any limitations on our access to capital will impair our ability to execute this strategy. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, our ability to acquire or develop accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our cost of equity include market conditions, fees we pay underwriters and other offering costs, which include amounts we pay for legal and accounting services. The primary factors influencing our cost of borrowing include interest rates, credit spreads, covenants, underwriting or loan origination fees and similar charges we pay to lenders. In addition, we are experiencing increased competition for the types of assets and businesses we have historically purchased or acquired. Increased competition for a limited pool of assets, as well as our limitations in the current capital markets, could result in our losing to other bidders more often or acquiring assets on less attractive terms. Either occurrence would limit our ability to fully execute our growth strategy. Many of our competitors may also have financial resources that are substantially greater than ours, which may adversely affect our ability to compete within the industry. Our oil and gas production results are dependent on factors, including commodity prices and commodity price basis differentials, which are subject to various external influences that cannot be controlled. Recent volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices has negatively affected the results of operations and cash flows of our oil and gas production business. The business is subject to external influences that cannot be controlled by us, including fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, fluctuations in commodity price basis differentials, availability of economic supplies of natural gas, drilling successes in oil and natural gas operations, the timely receipt of necessary permits and approvals, the ability to contract for or to secure necessary drilling rigs and service contracts to drill for and develop reserves, the ability to acquire oil and gas properties, and other risks incidental to the operations of the oil and natural gas wells. Our use of oil and natural gas price hedging contracts involves credit risk and may limit future revenues from price increases while not hedging may result in significant fluctuations in our net income and stockholders’ equity. We enter into hedging transactions for our oil and natural gas production to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas. We may in the future enter into additional hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the market prices of oil and natural gas. Hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including if production is less than expected or the other party to the contract 21 Table of Contents defaults on its obligations. Hedging transactions may limit the benefit we otherwise would have received from increases in the price for oil and natural gas, when the respective price goes above our hedged price. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploration, exploitation, development, and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control; including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop, or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Acquisitions are a part of our business strategy and are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our business strategy includes a continuing acquisition program. In addition to the leaseholds, we are seeking to acquire producing properties including the possibility of acquiring producing properties through the acquisition of an entire company. Possible future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The successful acquisition of producing and non-producing properties requires an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are inherently inexact and may prove to be inaccurate. These factors include: evaluating recoverable reserves, estimating future oil and gas prices, estimating future operating costs, estimating future development costs, estimating the costs and timing of plugging and abandonment and potential environmental and other liabilities, assessing title issues and other factors. Our assessments of potential acquisitions will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will such assessments permit us to become familiar enough with the properties fully to assess their capabilities and deficiencies. In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well or pipeline. Inspections may not reveal structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination, when they are made. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from a seller of a property for liabilities that we assume. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of acquired properties in addition to the risk that the acquired properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. As a result, some of the acquired businesses or properties may not produce revenues, reserves, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels and in connection with these acquisitions, we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to or known by us or that exceed our estimates. Our acquisitions may pose integration risks and other difficulties. Increasing our reserve base through acquisitions is an important part of our business strategy. Our failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing business, or the expense incurred in consummating acquisitions, could result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. In addition, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. We have limited operating control over our current production. Approximately one half of our current revenues come through joint operating agreements under which we own partial non-operated interests in oil and natural gas properties. As we do not currently operate a portion of the production in which we own an interest, we do not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties. Consequently, a portion of our operating results are beyond our control. The failure of an operator of our wells to perform operations adequately, or an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements, could reduce our production and revenues. In addition, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology. Since we do not have a majority interest in our 22 Table of Contents current non-operated properties, we may not be in a position to remove the operator in the event of poor performance. Further, significant cost overruns of an operation in any one of our current non-operated projects may require us to increase our capital expenditure budget and could result in some wells becoming uneconomic. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, operation, and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. We currently own an interest in numerous wells that are capable of producing but may be curtailed from time to time at some point in the future pending gas sales contract negotiations, as well as construction of gas gathering systems, pipelines, and processing facilities. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations can adversely affect the conduct of drilling activities on our properties. Oil and natural gas operations can be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. In certain areas, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities can only be conducted during the spring and summer months. This may limit operations in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. Resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Our reserves and future net revenues may differ significantly from our estimates. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. Reserve estimates are based on assumptions relating to oil and natural gas pricing, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes, timing of operations and the percentage of interest owned by us in the well. The reserve estimates are prepared by external engineers who are experts in the geographic areas in which we operate. They analyze available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each geographic area. The engineers make various assumptions regarding this data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. Although our reserve estimates are prepared in accordance with guidelines established by the industry and the SEC, significant changes to the reserve estimate may occur based on actual results of production, drilling, costs and pricing. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be significantly different. Sustained downward movements in oil and natural gas prices could result in additional future write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. We currently have key employees who serve in senior management roles. The loss of any one of these employees could severely harm our business. Although we have life insurance policies on our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, of which we are the beneficiary, we do not currently maintain key man insurance on the lives of any of the other key employees. Furthermore, competition for experienced personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. We may incur non-cash charges to our operations as a result of current and future financing transactions. Under current accounting rules, we have incurred $9.6 million of non-cash interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2008, and may incur additional non-cash charges to future operations beyond the stated contractual interest payments required under our current and potential future financing arrangements. While such charges are generally non-cash, they impact our results of operations and earnings per share and have been and may be material. 23 Table of Contents Risks Relating To Our Common Stock Our insiders beneficially own a significant portion of our stock. As of February 25, 2009, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons beneficially own approximately 8.49% of our common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have significant influence to: • elect or defeat the election of our directors; • amend or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; • effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and • affect the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for vote. In addition, sales of significant amounts of shares held by our directors and executive officers, or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Management’s stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. The anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter and by-laws and of certain provisions of Delaware corporate law, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other “change in control” of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our amended certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”) contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or our management which stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions include the fact that we are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL. In general, Section 203 of the DGCL prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder. A “business combination” includes a merger, sale of 10% or more of our assets and certain other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the stockholder. For purposes of Section 203, an “interested stockholder” includes any person that is: — the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation; — an affiliate or associate of the corporation and was the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation, at any time within three years immediately prior to the relevant date; and — an affiliate or associate of the persons defined as an interested stockholder. Any one of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock when they want to or at prices they find attractive. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, listed under the ticker symbol TEC, constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • low average daily trading volume; • quarterly variations in operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; 24 Table of Contents • changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • developments generally affecting the oil and gas industry; • announcements by us, or other industry companies, of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint ventures, capital commitments or operational successes; • future sales of our equity or equity-linked securities; and • general domestic and international economic conditions including the availability of short- and long-term financing. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 