ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to our Business We have incurred significant losses. We expect future losses and we may never become profitable. We have incurred significant losses in the past. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, we incurred net losses from continuing operations of $5,724,469, $3,777,449, and $5,193,281, respectively. In addition, we had an accumulated deficit of $30,224,195 at December 31, 2006. We may fail to achieve significant revenues or sustain profitability. There can be no assurance of when, if ever, we will be profitable or, if we do become profitable, will be able to maintain profitability. Substantially all of our producing properties are located in the Rocky Mountains, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one geographic area. Our operations are focused on the Rocky Mountain region, which means our producing properties are geographically concentrated in that area. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production or interruption of transportation of natural gas produced from the wells in these basins. If we are unable to obtain additional funding our business operations will be harmed. We will require additional funding to meet increasing capital costs associated with our operations. Based on our operating partners’ current capital expenditure plans, we will be unable to participate in additional wells if we are unable to secure additional funding. Although we received approximately $10.8 million from a raise involving the sale of our common stock in July 2006, we cannot assure you that any future offerings will be successful, nor can we estimate when, if such offerings are successful, these offerings will close and capital will become available to us. In addition, although our revolving credit facility provides for availability of up to $50 million, our current borrowing base is only $6 million as of March 12, 2007 and there can be no assurance that our borrowing base will be increased or that additional advances will be made under the revolving credit facility. We do not know if additional financing will be available when needed, or if it is available, if it will be available on acceptable terms. The lack of available future funding may prevent us from implementing our business strategy. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development, and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop, or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay, or cancel drilling, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; 8 Table of Contents • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, including drilling rigs, and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • title problems; and • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. Our business involves numerous operating hazards for which our insurance and other contractual rights may not adequately cover our potential losses. Our operations are subject to certain hazards inherent in drilling for oil or natural gas, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, punchthroughs, craterings, or fires. The occurrence of any one of these events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, equipment shortages, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. Damage to the environment could also result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to damage claims by other oil and gas companies. Although we and/or our operating partners maintain insurance to cover our operations, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Our insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover our losses, and we do not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or contractual indemnity, it could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Acquisitions are a part of our business strategy and are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our business strategy includes a continuing acquisition program. During 2005 and 2006, we completed two separate leasehold acquisitions each year. In addition to the leaseholds, we are seeking to acquire producing properties including the possibility of acquiring a producing property through the acquisition of an entire company. Possible future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities, and expenses, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We could be subject to significant liabilities related to our acquisitions. The successful acquisition of producing and non-producing properties requires an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are inherently inexact and may prove to be inaccurate. These factors include: evaluating recoverable reserves, estimating future oil and gas prices, estimating future operating costs, future development costs, the costs and timing of plugging and abandonment and potential environmental and other liabilities, assessing title issues, and other factors. Our assessments of potential acquisitions will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will such assessments permit us to become familiar enough with the properties fully to assess their capabilities and deficiencies. In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well, platform, or pipeline. Inspections may not reveal structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination, when they are made. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from a seller of a property for liabilities that we assume. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of acquired properties in 9 Table of Contents addition to the risk that the acquired properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. As a result, some of the acquired businesses or properties may not produce revenues, reserves, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels and in connection with these acquisitions, we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to or known by us or that exceed our estimates. Our ability to complete acquisitions could be affected by competition with other companies and our ability to obtain financing or regulatory approvals. In pursuing acquisitions, we compete with other companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources to acquire attractive companies and properties. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our strategy of completing acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are not able to obtain financing or regulatory approvals. Our acquisitions may pose integration risks and other difficulties. Increasing our reserve base through acquisitions is an important part of our business strategy. Our failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing business, or the expense incurred in consummating future acquisitions, could result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. In addition, we may have to assume cleanup or reclamation obligations or other unanticipated liabilities in connection with these acquisitions. The scope and cost of these obligations may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. In addition, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Possible future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Substantial acquisitions or other transactions could require significant external capital and could change our risk and property profile. In order to finance acquisitions of additional producing properties, we may need to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities, the sale of production payments, or other means. These changes in capitalization may significantly affect our risk profile. Additionally, significant acquisitions or other transactions can change the character of our operations and business. The character of the new properties may be substantially different in operating or geological characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain external funding for future acquisitions, other transactions, or on terms acceptable to us. Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties and of proved undeveloped acreage. Major and independent oil and gas companies actively bid for desirable oil and gas properties, as well as for the equipment, supplies, labor and services required to operate and develop their properties. Some of these resources may be limited and have higher prices due 10 Table of Contents to current strong demand. Many of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than ours, which may adversely affect our ability to compete within the industry. There is currently a shortage of available drilling rigs and equipment which could cause us to experience higher costs and delays that could adversely affect our operations. Although equipment and supplies used in our business are usually available from multiple sources, there is currently a general shortage of drilling equipment, drilling supplies, and personnel or firms that provide such services on a contract basis. We believe that these shortages are likely to intensify. The costs of equipment and supplies are substantially greater now than in prior periods and are currently escalating. In addition, the delivery time associated with such equipment and supplies is substantially longer from the date of order until receipt and continues to increase. We and our joint venture partners are also attempting to establish arrangements with others to assure adequate availability of certain other necessary drilling equipment and supplies on satisfactory terms, but there can be no guarantee that we will be able to do so. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not experience shortages of, or material price increases in, drilling equipment and supplies, including drill pipe, in the future. Any such shortages could delay and adversely affect our ability to meet our drilling commitments. We have limited operating control over our properties. All of our business activities are conducted through joint operating agreements under which we own partial non-operated interests in oil and natural gas properties. As we do not currently operate the properties in which we own an interest, we do not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures, or future development of underlying properties. Consequently, our operating results are beyond our control. The failure of an operator of our wells to perform operations adequately, or an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements, could reduce our production and revenues. In addition, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells, and use of technology. Since we do not have a majority interest in our current properties, we may not be in a position to remove the operator in the event of poor performance. Further, significant cost overruns of an operation in any one of our current projects may require us to increase our capital expenditure budget and could result in some wells becoming uneconomic. We have no long-term contracts to sell oil and gas. We do not have any long-term supply or similar agreements with governments or other authorities or entities for which we act as a producer. We are therefore dependent upon our ability to sell oil and gas at the prevailing wellhead market price. There can be no assurance that purchasers will be available or that the prices they are willing to pay will remain stable. Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely, and low prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and reserve calculations depend substantially on reasonable prices for oil and gas. These prices also affect the amount of our cash flow available for capital expenditures, working capital and payments on our debt and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility (see Note 6 to the financial statements) is subject to periodic asset redeterminations based in part on changing expectations of future crude oil and natural gas prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. 11 Table of Contents Among the factors that can cause fluctuations are: • domestic and foreign supply, and perceptions of supply, of oil and natural gas; • level of consumer demand; • political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; • weather conditions; • world-wide economic conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; and • price and availability of alternative fuels We have multiple hedges placed on our oil and gas production. See Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our use of oil and natural gas price hedging contracts involves credit risk and may limit future revenues from price increases and result in significant fluctuations in our net income and shareholders’ equity. We enter into hedging transactions for our oil and natural gas production to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the price of oil and natural gas. Our only hedging transaction to date has consisted of a so-called costless collar, which in a hedging transaction that limits both our downside loss and our upside gain between a certain price range over a defined period of time. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition of Operations — Cash Flows and Expenditures”. We may in the future enter into these and other types of hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the market prices of oil and natural gas. Hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including if production is less than expected, the other party to the contract defaults on its obligations or there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received. Hedging transactions may limit the benefit we otherwise would have received from increases in the price for oil and natural gas. Furthermore, if we do not engage in hedging transactions, then we may be more adversely affected by declines in oil and natural gas prices than our competitors that engage in hedging transactions. Additionally, hedging transactions may expose us to cash margin requirements. The marketability of our production depends mostly upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, operation, and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. We currently own an interest in several wells that are capable of producing but may be curtailed from time to time at some point in the future pending gas sales contract negotiations, as well as construction of gas gathering systems, pipelines, and processing facilities. United States federal, state, and foreign regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, damage to or destruction of pipelines, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas. If market factors change dramatically, the financial impact on us could be substantial. The availability of markets and the volatility of product prices are beyond our control and represent a significant risk. 12 Table of Contents Our credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants and we may have difficulty obtaining additional credit, which could adversely affect our operations. Our revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by our lenders in their sole discretion, based upon, among other things, our level of proven reserves and the projected revenues from the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all of the lenders. If the lenders do not agree on an increase, then the borrowing base will be the lowest borrowing base acceptable to the required number of lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. Upon a downward adjustment of the borrowing base, if borrowings in excess of the revised borrowing base are outstanding, we could be forced to repay our indebtedness under the revolving credit facility if we do not have any substantial unpledged properties to pledge as additional collateral. We may not have sufficient funds to make repayments under our revolving credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, or will be able to refinance such debt through equity financings or by selling assets. The terms of our revolving credit facility also may prohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We cannot assure you that any such offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed. Our debt level and the covenants in the agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences for our operations, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and detracting from our ability to withstand successfully a downturn in our business or the economy generally; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because borrowings under our credit facility may be at rates prevailing at the time of each borrowing. 13 Table of Contents The instruments governing our indebtedness contain various covenants limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business. Our revolving credit facility contains various restrictive covenants that limit our management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these agreements will limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt, if any; • make loans to others; • make investments; • incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; • create certain liens; • sell assets; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries to us; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of the assets of us and our subsidiaries taken as a whole; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • enter into hedging contracts; • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and • enter into sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, our revolving credit facility also requires us to maintain a certain working capital ratio and a certain debt to EBITDAX (as defined in the revolving credit facility as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and exploration expense) ratio. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in the revolving credit facility (or any other subsequent financing agreements), a default may allow the creditors (if the agreements so provide) to accelerate the related indebtedness as well as any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to make available further funds. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration for and development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with equity financings as well as from cash generated from the sale of our Russian operations. We anticipate being able to finance our future capital expenditures with a combination of cash flow from operations, our existing financing arrangements, and equity financings. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. 14 Table of Contents If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, then we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may, from time to time, need to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you of the availability or terms of any additional financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in our financial statements. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We also must analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves in our financial statements. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those presented using the present value estimate. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations can adversely affect the conduct of drilling activities on our properties. Oil and natural gas operations can be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife, particularly in the Rocky Mountain region where we currently operate. In certain areas, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities can only be conducted during the spring and summer months. This may limit operations in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified 15 Table of Contents personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. Resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our level of reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and income. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation, and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and, therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. We currently have four employees that serve in senior management roles. In particular, our Chief Executive Officer, Karl F. Arleth, our Chief Operating Officer, Dominic J. Bazile II, and our Vice President of Production, Andrew N. Schultz, are responsible for the operation of our oil and gas business and Bill I. Pennington, our Executive Vice President, Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer, oversees our finance and administrative organizations. The loss of any one of these employees could severely harm our business. Although we have a life insurance policy on Mr. Arleth, of which we are a beneficiary, we do not currently maintain key man insurance on the lives of any of the other three individuals. Furthermore, competition for experienced personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Rising inflation and price increases could have a negative effect on our value and increase our costs. We may experience increased costs during 2007 and 2008 due to increased demand for oil and gas field products and services. The oil and natural gas industry is cyclical and the demand for goods and services of oil field companies, suppliers and others associated with the industry can place extreme pressure on the economic stability and pricing structure within the industry. Typically, as prices for oil and natural gas increase, so do all associated costs. Historically in the oil and gas industry, material changes in prices also impact the current revenue stream, estimates of future reserves, borrowing base calculations of bank loans and values of properties in purchase and sale transactions. Material changes in prices can impact the value of oil and natural gas companies and their ability to raise capital, borrow money and retain personnel. While we do not currently expect business costs materially to increase, continued high prices for oil and natural gas could result in increases in the costs of materials, services and personnel. Our inability to meet operating and financial obligations could adversely affect our business. We have obligations and commitments related to our operations as well as our general and administrative activities. Our partners in our various projects have expectations that we will fund our proportionate share of drilling and related capital costs each year. Our commitments are expected to increase significantly as our operating partners increase their drilling activities and we incur additional cash calls in respect of these projects. In the event that we are unable to maintain our funding obligations in respect of our projects, we may be deemed to have gone “non-consent,” which will result in a project’s other partners funding a well’s operating costs without us. If we go “non-consent” on a well, the consequences to us likely will enable the consenting partners to recover their costs plus an agreed-upon percentage (typically 300% to 400%) before we will be entitled to participate in any of the future economics of the 16 Table of Contents well, if at all. Our general and administrative commitments principally include our office lease, under which we are contractually obligated until 2009. Risks Relating To Our Common Stock Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry, or our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts; • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; • conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry; • the success of our operating strategy; and • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. Our insiders beneficially own a significant portion of our stock. As of December 31, 2006 our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons beneficially own approximately 14.55 % of our common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have significant influence to: • elect or defeat the election of our directors; • amend or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; • effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and • affect the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for vote. In addition, sales of significant amounts of shares held by our directors and executive officers, or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Management’s stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, holders of our common stock must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our existing credit agreement prohibits the payment of cash dividends without lender consent. Any payment of cash 17 Table of Contents dividends also will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Further, our current business strategy calls for the reinvestment of cash flow from operations back into our business. Accordingly, holders of our common stock will have to rely on capital appreciation, if any, to earn a return on their investment in our common stock. The anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and shareholder rights plan, and of certain provisions of Delaware corporate law, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other “change in control” of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our amended certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, our shareholder rights plan and Delaware General Corporation Law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or our management which shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions include the following: • We are authorized to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common shareholders; • We have a shareholder rights plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our board of directors and principal shareholders. • We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL. In general, Section 203 of the DGCL prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder. A “business combination” includes a merger, sale of 10% or more of our assets and certain other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the stockholder. For purposes of Section 203, an “interested stockholder” includes any person that is: — the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation; — an affiliate or associate of the corporation and was the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation, at any time within three years immediately prior to the relevant date; and — an affiliate or associate of the persons defined as an interested shareholder. Any one of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 