ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks that we have highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline, and our stockholders may lose part or all of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have Substantial Customer Concentration, with One Customer Accounting for a Substantial Portion of our 2010 Revenues. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenues from one customer, AT&T. Our relationship with AT&T dates back to January 2001 when we began providing service to AT&T Wireless, which was subsequently acquired by Cingular Wireless and is now a division of AT&T. For the year ended December 31, 2010, AT&T accounted for approximately 62% of our revenues, compared to 65% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our agreement with AT&T was renewed effective January 1, 2009 and runs through December 2011. AT&T may renew this agreement for two additional one year periods. This agreement defines the work activities, transaction pricing, forecasting process, service level agreements and remedies associated with certain services performed by us for AT&T’s ecommerce organization. The agreement provides for AT&T to pay us (i) a monthly hosting fee, (ii) a fee based on the number of transactions processed through our technology platform, (iii) a fee based on manual processing services and (iv) for professional services rendered by us. A copy of this agreement has been previously filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission. Our five largest customers, AT&T, Level 3 Communications, Time Warner Cable, Verizon Wireless, and Vonage, accounted for approximately 83% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to 84% of our revenues from our five largest customers, AT&T, Cablevision, Comcast, Level 3 Communications, and Vonage, for the year ended December 31, 2009. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand for our services that will be generated by these customers or the future demand for the products and services of these customers in the end-user marketplace. In addition, revenues from these larger customers may fluctuate from time to time based on the commencement and completion of projects, the timing of which may be affected by market conditions. Further, some of our contracts with these larger customers permit them to terminate our services at any time (subject to notice and certain other provisions). If any of these customers experience declining or delayed sales due to market, economic or competitive conditions, we could be pressured to reduce the prices we charge for our services or we could lose a major customer, which would affect our margins and would negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. If We Do Not Adapt to Rapid Technological Change in the Communications Industry, We Could Lose Customers or Market Share. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new service offerings. Significant technological changes could make our technology and services obsolete, less marketable or less competitive. We must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving the features, functionality, reliability and responsiveness of our transaction management services, and by developing new features, services and applications to meet changing customer needs. We may not be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way. Our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers and/or market share. In addition, our present or future service offerings may not satisfy the evolving needs of the industry in which we operate. If we are unable to anticipate or respond adequately to such needs, due to resource, technological or other constraints, our business and results of operations could be harmed. 16 Table of Contents The Success of Our Business Depends on the Continued Growth of Consumer and Business Transactions Related to Communications Services on the Internet. The future success of our business depends upon the continued growth of consumer and business transactions on the Internet, including attracting consumers who have historically purchased wireless services and devices through traditional retail stores. Specific factors that could deter consumers from purchasing wireless services and devices on the Internet include concerns about buying wireless devices without a face-to-face interaction with sales personnel and the ability to physically handle and examine the devices. Our business growth would be impeded if the performance or perception of the Internet was harmed by security problems such as “viruses,” “worms” or other malicious programs, reliability issues arising from outages and damage to Internet infrastructure, delays in development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, increased costs, decreased accessibility and quality of service, or increased government regulation and taxation of Internet activity. The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant user and traffic growth, which has, at times, caused user frustration with slow access and download times. If Internet activity grows faster than Internet infrastructure or if the Internet infrastructure is otherwise unable to support the demands placed on it, or if hosting capacity becomes scarce, our business growth may be adversely affected. The Success of Our Business Depends on the Continued Growth in Demand for Connected Devices. The future success of our business depends upon the continued growth in demand for connected devices. While we believe the market for connected devices will continue to grow for the foreseeable future, we cannot accurately predict the extent to which demand for connected devices will increase, if at all. If the demand for connected devices were to stabilize or decline, our business may be adversely affected. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is directly affected by the length of our sales cycle. Our customers’ businesses are relatively complex and their purchase of the types of services that we offer generally involve a significant commitment of capital, with attendant delays frequently associated with large capital commitments and procurement procedures within an organization. The purchase of the types of services that we offer typically also requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customer’s organization. Delays associated with such timing factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In periods of economic slowdown our typical sales cycle lengthens, which means that the average time between our initial contact with a prospective customer and the signing of a sales contract increases. The lengthening of our sales cycle could reduce growth in our revenue. In addition, the lengthening of our sales cycle contributes to an increased cost of sales, thereby reducing our profitability. Compromises to Our Privacy Safeguards Could Impact Our Reputation. Names, addresses, telephone numbers, credit card data and other personal identification information, or PII, is collected, processed and stored in our systems. The steps we have taken to protect PII may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation or improper disclosure of such PII. If such misappropriation or disclosure were to occur, our business could be harmed through reputational injury, litigation and possible damages claimed by the affected end customers. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information could deter consumers from transacting business with us on the Internet. Fraudulent Internet Transactions Could Negatively Impact Our Business. Our business may be exposed to risks associated with Internet credit card fraud and identity theft that could cause us to incur unexpected expenditures and loss of revenues. Under current credit card practices, a merchant is liable for fraudulent credit card transactions when, as is the case with the transactions we process, that merchant 17 Table of Contents does not obtain a cardholder’s signature. Although our customers currently bear the risk for a fraudulent credit card transaction, in the future we may be forced to share some of that risk and the associated costs with our customers. To the extent that technology upgrades or other expenditures are required to prevent credit card fraud and identity theft, we may be required to bear the costs associated with such expenditures. In addition, to the extent that credit card fraud and/or identity theft cause a decline in business transactions over the Internet generally, both the business of our customers and our business could be adversely affected. If the Wireless Services Industry Experiences a Decline in Subscribers, Our Business May Suffer. The wireless services industry has faced an increasing number of challenges, including a slowdown in new subscriber growth. Revenues from services performed for customers in the wireless services industry accounted for 52% of our revenues in 2010 and 56% in 2009. A continued slowdown in subscriber growth in the wireless services industry could adversely affect our business growth. The Consolidation in the Communications Industry Can Reduce the Number of Customers and Adversely Affect Our Business. The communications industry continues to experience consolidation and an increased formation of alliances among communications service providers and between communications service providers and other entities. Should one of our significant customers consolidate or enter into an alliance with an entity or decide to either use a different service provider or to manage its transactions internally, this could have a negative material impact on our business. Any such consolidations, alliances or decisions to manage transactions internally may cause us to lose customers or require us to reduce prices as a result of enhanced customer leverage, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions. We may not be able to expand our customer base to make up any revenue declines if we lose customers or if our transaction volumes decline. If We Fail to Compete Successfully With Existing or New Competitors, Our Business Could Be Harmed. If we fail to compete successfully with established or new competitors, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The communications industry is highly competitive and fragmented, and we expect competition to increase. We compete with independent providers of information systems and services and with the in-house departments of our OEMs and communications services companies’ customers. Rapid technological changes, such as advancements in software integration across multiple and incompatible systems, and economies of scale may make it more economical for CSPs, MSOs or OEMs to develop their own in-house processes and systems, which may render some of our products and services less valuable or eventually obsolete. Our competitors include firms that provide comprehensive information systems and managed services solutions, systems integrators, clearinghouses and service bureaus. Many of our competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, substantial financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, and strong name recognition. Current and potential competitors have established, and may establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address the needs of our current or prospective customers. In addition, our competitors have acquired, and may continue to acquire in the future, companies that may enhance their market offerings. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. These relationships and alliances may also result in transaction pricing pressure which could result in large reductions in the selling price of our services. Our competitors or our customers’ in-house solutions may also provide services at a lower cost, significantly increasing pricing pressure on us. We may not be able to offset the effects of this potential pricing pressure. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with established or new competitors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, a failure to offset competitive pressures brought about by competitors or in-house solutions developed by AT&T could result in a substantial reduction in or the 18 Table of Contents outright termination of our contract with AT&T, which would have a significant, negative and material impact on our business. Failures or Interruptions of Our Systems and Services Could Materially Harm Our Revenues, Impair Our Ability to Conduct Our Operations and Damage Relationships with Our Customers. Our success depends on our ability to provide reliable services to our customers and process a high volume of transactions in a timely and effective manner. Although we have a disaster recovery facility in our Bridgewater, New Jersey corporate headquarters, our network operations are currently located in a single facility in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania that is susceptible to damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks and similar events. We could also experience failures or interruptions of our systems and services, or other problems in connection with our operations, as a result of, among other things: • damage to or failure of our computer software or hardware or our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties; • errors in the processing of data by our system; • computer viruses or software defects; • physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; • fire, cyber attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event; • increased capacity demands or changes in systems requirements of our customers; or • errors by our employees or third-party service providers. In addition, our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Any interruptions in our systems or services could damage our reputation and substantially harm our business and results of operations. If We Fail to Meet Our Service Level Obligations Under Our Service Level Agreements, We Would Be Subject to Penalties and Could Lose Customers. We have service level agreements with many of our customers under which we guarantee specified levels of service availability. These arrangements involve the risk that we may not have adequately estimated the level of service we will in fact be able to provide. If we fail to meet our service level obligations under these agreements, we would be subject to penalties, which could result in higher than expected costs, decreased revenues and decreased operating margins. We could also lose customers. We are Exposed to Risks Associated with the Recent Financial Crisis and Weakening Global Economy. The recent severe tightening of the credit markets, disruptions in the financial markets and challenging economic conditions have adversely affected the United States and world economies, and in particular, have resulted in reduced consumer spending and reduced spending by businesses. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in consumer spending and may negatively impact the businesses of certain of our customers, which may cause a reduction in their use of our platforms and therefore a reduction in our revenues. These conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. It also may result in a more competitive environment, resulting in possible pricing pressure. In addition, we maintain an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by deteriorating financial market conditions and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are also subject to the credit risk of our customers and customers with liquidity issues may lead to bad debt expense for us. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the 19 Table of Contents United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer payment terms in some markets outside the United States. We use various methods to screen potential customers and establish appropriate credit limits, but these methods cannot eliminate all potential bad credit risks and may not prevent us from approving applications that are fraudulently completed. Moreover, businesses that are good credit risks at the time of application may become bad credit risks over time and we may fail to detect this change. We maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. If we fail to adequately assess and monitor our credit risks, we could experience longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and higher bad debt expense. A decrease in accounts receivable resulting from an increase in bad debt expense could adversely affect our liquidity. Our exposure to credit risks may increase if our customers are adversely affected by the difficult macroeconomic environment, or if there is a continuation or worsening of the economic environment. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks or the incurrence of additional losses. Future and additional losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. Additionally, to the degree that the recent turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The Financial and Operating Difficulties in the Telecommunications Sector May Negatively Affect Our Customers and Our Company. The telecommunications sector faces significant challenges resulting from excess capacity, poor operating results and financing difficulties. The sector’s financial status has at times been uncertain and access to debt and equity capital has been seriously limited. The impact of these events on us could include slower collection on accounts receivable, higher bad debt expense, uncertainties due to possible customer bankruptcies, lower pricing on new customer contracts, lower revenues due to lower usage by the end customer and possible consolidation among our customers, which will put our customers and operating performance at risk. In addition, because we operate in the communications sector, we may also be negatively impacted by limited access to debt and equity capital. Our Reliance on Third-Party Providers for Communications Software, Services, Hardware and Infrastructure Exposes Us to a Variety of Risks We Cannot Control. Our success depends on software, equipment, network connectivity and infrastructure hosting services supplied by our vendors and customers. In addition, we rely on third-party vendors to perform a substantial portion of our exception handling services. We may not be able to continue to purchase the necessary software, equipment and services from vendors on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to maintain current purchasing terms or ensure service availability with these vendors and customers, we may lose customers and experience an increase in costs in seeking alternative supplier services. Our business also depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of the infrastructure owned and managed by third parties, including our vendors and customers, that is used by our technology interoperability services, network services, number portability services, call processed services and enterprise solutions. We have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of a significant portion of that infrastructure and whether those third parties will upgrade or improve their software, equipment and services to meet our and our customers’ evolving requirements. We depend on these companies to maintain the operational integrity of our services. If one or more of these companies is unable or unwilling to supply or expand its levels of services to us in the future, our operations could be severely interrupted. In addition, rapid changes in the communications industry have led to industry consolidation. This consolidation may cause the availability, pricing and quality of the services we use to vary and could lengthen the amount of time it takes to deliver the services that we use. Our Failure to Protect Confidential Information and Our Network Against Security Breaches Could Damage Our Reputation and Substantially Harm Our Business and Results of Operations. A significant barrier to online commerce is concern about the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. The encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties on which we rely to 20 Table of Contents securely transmit confidential information, including credit card numbers, may not adequately protect customer transaction data. Any compromise of our security could damage our reputation and expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability which could substantially harm our business and results of operation. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. If We Are Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights, Our Competitive Position Could Be Harmed or We Could Be Required to Incur Significant Expenses to Enforce Our Rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology rights, particularly our ConvergenceNow®, ConvergenceNow® Plus+tm and InterConnectNowtm platforms. We rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. We also regularly file patent applications to protect inventions arising from our research and development, and have obtained a number of patents in the United States and other countries. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the reverse engineering of our solutions. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in other countries are uncertain and may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Consequently, we may be unable to prevent our proprietary technology from being exploited abroad, which could require costly efforts to protect our technology. Policing the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could materially harm our business. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Claims By Others That We Infringe Their Proprietary Technology Could Harm Our Business. Third parties could claim that our current or future products or technology infringe their proprietary rights. We expect that software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors providing software and services to the communications industry increases and overlaps occur. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our services. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers. We also generally indemnify our customers if our services infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. If anyone asserts a claim against us relating to proprietary technology or information, while we might seek to license their intellectual property, we might not be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or on any terms. In addition, any efforts to develop non-infringing technology could be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights or to develop non-infringing technology could prevent us from offering our services and could therefore seriously harm our business. We May Seek to Acquire Companies or Technologies, Which Could Disrupt Our Ongoing Business, Disrupt Our Management and Employees and Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We have made, and in the future intend to make, acquisitions of, and investments in, companies, technologies or products in existing, related or new markets for us which we believe may enhance our market position or strategic strengths. However, we cannot be sure that any acquisition or investment will ultimately enhance our products or 21 Table of Contents strengthen our competitive position. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: (1) diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; (2) inability to identify acquisition candidates on terms acceptable to us or at all, or inability to complete acquisitions as anticipated or at all; (3) inability to realize anticipated benefits; (4) failure to commercialize purchased technologies; (5) inability to capitalize on characteristics of new markets that may be significantly different from our existing markets; (6) exposure to operational risks, rules and regulations to the extent such activities are located in countries where we have not historically done business; (7) inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies; (8) ineffectiveness of an acquired company’s internal controls; (9) impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company or its product offerings; (10) unknown, underestimated and/or undisclosed commitments or liabilities; (11) excess or underutilized facilities; and (12) ineffective integration of operations, technologies, products or employees of the acquired companies. In addition, acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations and increase our expenses and harm our results of operations or financial condition. Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, which may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses, an increase in contingent liabilities or an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, each of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Expansion into International Markets May Be Subject to Uncertainties That Could Increase Our Costs to Comply with Regulatory Requirements in Foreign Jurisdictions, Disrupt Our Operations and Require Increased Focus from Our Management. Our growth strategy includes the growth of our operations in foreign jurisdictions. International operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including economic and political risks in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate, the difficulty of enforcing contracts and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, potential difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights in foreign countries, varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands, and the difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. Our Expansion into International Markets May Expose Us to Risks Associated with Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates That Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. However, as we expand our operations into international markets a portion of our revenues and/or operating costs may be incurred outside the United States in other currencies. In such event, fluctuations in exchange rates between the currencies in which such revenues and/or costs may occur and the dollar may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, from time to time following our expansion into international markets we may experience increases in the costs of our operations outside the United States, as expressed in dollars, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, the imposition of restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Senior Management is Important to Our Customer Relationships, and the Loss of One or More of Our Senior Managers Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Business. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our senior management. We rely on our executive officers and senior management to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that members of our management team have established and maintain with our customers and our regulators contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations. The loss of any members of senior management could materially impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts and otherwise manage our business. 22 Table of Contents We Continue to Incur Significant Costs as a Result of Operating as a Public Company, and Our Management Is Required to Devote Substantial Time to New Compliance Initiatives. We operate as a public company, and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Global Market’s National Market, including recent changes under the Dodd-FrankWall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. These rules impose various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statements as of the end of each fiscal year. We successfully completed our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. Our continued compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance related issues. We currently do not have an internal audit group and we will evaluate the need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. In future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, there may be a loss of public confidence in our internal control, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to regulatory sanctions or investigations by the Nasdaq Stock Market’s National Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. Changes in, or Interpretations of, Accounting Principles Could Result in Unfavorable Accounting Charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported results. Our accounting principles that recently have been or may be affected by changes in accounting principles are: (i) accounting for stock-based compensation; (ii) accounting for income taxes; (iii) accounting for business combinations and goodwill; and (iv) accounting for foreign currency translation. Changes in, or Interpretations of, Tax Rules and Regulations, Could Adversely Affect our Effective Tax Rates. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to the continued examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other domestic tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations, if any, to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We believe such estimates to be reasonable, but there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Our Stock Price May Continue to Experience Significant Fluctuations. Our stock price, like that of other technology companies, continues to fluctuate greatly. Our stock price can be affected by many factors such as quarterly increases or decreases in our earnings, speculation in the investment community about our financial condition or results of operations and changes in revenue or earnings estimates, 23 Table of Contents announcement of new services, technological developments, alliances, or acquisitions by us. Additionally, the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly in the future due to factors that are non-company specific, such as the decline in the United States and/or international economies, acts of terror against the United States, war or due to a variety of company specific factors, including quarter to quarter variations in our operating results, shortfalls in revenue, gross margin or earnings from levels projected by securities analysts and the other factors discussed in these risk factors. If Securities or Industry Analysts Do Not Publish Research or Reports or Publish Unfavorable Research About Our Business, Our Stock Price and Trading Volume Could Decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We currently have research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or states a view that our business prospects are reduced, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to regularly publish reports on us, interest in the purchase of our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Delaware Law and Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws Could Make a Merger, Tender Offer or Proxy Contest Difficult, Therefore Depressing the Trading Price of Our Common Stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of the stock to elect some directors; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 