ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves risk. In evaluating the Company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report. Each of these risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. In addition, the “Forward-Looking Statements’’ located in this Form 10-K, and the forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference herein describe additional uncertainties associated with our business. Risks Related to our Business We have incurred significant losses. We expect future losses and we may never become profitable. We have incurred significant losses in the past. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, we incurred net income (losses) from operations of $2.4 million, ($5.7 million), and ($4.1 million), respectively. In addition, we had an accumulated deficit of $27.8 million at December 31, 2007. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain profitability. Substantially all of our producing properties are located in the Rocky Mountains, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one geographic area. Our current operations are focused on the Rocky Mountain region, which means our producing properties are geographically concentrated in that area. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production or interruption of transportation of oil and natural gas produced from the wells in these basins. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to fund our planned capital expenditures. We spend and will continue to spend a substantial amount of capital for the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and gas reserves. We have historically addressed our short and long-term liquidity needs through the use of cash flow provided by operating activities, borrowing under bank credit facilities and the issuance of equity. Without adequate financing we may not be able successfully to execute our operating strategy. The availability of these sources of capital will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • general economic and financial market conditions; • oil and natural gas prices; and • our market value and operating performance. We may be unable to execute our operating strategy if we cannot obtain adequate capital. If low oil and natural gas prices, lack of adequate gathering or transportation facilities, operating difficulties or other factors, many of which are beyond our control, cause our revenues and cash flows from operating activities to decrease, we may be limited in our ability to spend the capital necessary to complete our capital expenditures program. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploration, exploitation, development, and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control; including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop, or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Acquisitions are a part of our business strategy and are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our business strategy includes a continuing acquisition program. In addition to the leaseholds, we are seeking to acquire producing properties including the possibility of acquiring producing properties through the acquisition of an entire company. Possible future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The successful acquisition of producing and non-producing properties requires an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are inherently inexact and may prove to be inaccurate. These factors include: evaluating recoverable reserves, estimating future oil and gas prices, estimating future operating costs, estimating future development costs, estimating the costs and timing of plugging and abandonment and potential environmental and other liabilities, assessing title issues and other factors. Our assessments of potential acquisitions will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will such assessments permit us to become familiar enough with the properties fully to assess their capabilities and deficiencies. In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well or pipeline. Inspections may not reveal structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination, when they are made. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from a seller of a property for liabilities that we assume. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of acquired properties in addition to the risk that the acquired properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. As a result, some of the acquired businesses or properties may not produce revenues, reserves, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels and in connection with these acquisitions, we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to or known by us or that exceed our estimates. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to complete acquisitions could be affected by competition with other companies and our ability to obtain financing or regulatory approvals. In pursuing acquisitions, we compete with other companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources to acquire attractive companies and properties. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our strategy of completing acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain adequate financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our acquisitions may pose integration risks and other difficulties. Increasing our reserve base through acquisitions is an important part of our business strategy. Our failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing business, or the expense incurred in consummating acquisitions, could result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. In addition, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Possible future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense and oil and gas companies actively bid for desirable oil and gas properties, as well as for the equipment, supplies, labor and services required to operate and develop their properties. Some of these resources may be limited and have higher prices due to strong demand. Many of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than ours, which may adversely affect our ability to compete within the industry. We have limited operating control over our current production. Most of our current production comes through joint operating agreements under which we own partial non-operated interests in oil and natural gas properties. As we do not currently operate a large portion of the production in which we own an interest, we do not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties. Consequently, a portion of our operating results are beyond our control. The failure of an operator of our wells to perform operations adequately, or an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements, could reduce our production and revenues. In addition, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology. Since we do not have a majority interest in our current non-operated properties, we may not be in a position to remove the operator in the event of poor performance. Further, significant cost overruns of an operation in any one of our current non-operated projects may require us to increase our capital expenditure budget and could result in some wells becoming uneconomic. Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely, and low prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues, profitability, future growth and reserve calculations depend on reasonable prices for oil and natural gas. These prices also affect the amount of our cash flow available for capital expenditures and payments on our debt, and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow under our senior secured revolving credit facility (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) is subject to periodic borrowing base re-determinations based in part on changing expectations of future crude oil and natural gas prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. Among the factors that can cause fluctuations are: • domestic and foreign supply, and perceptions of supply, of oil and natural gas; • level of consumer demand; 18 Table of Contents • political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; • weather conditions; • world-wide economic conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; and • price and availability of alternative fuels. We have multiple hedges placed on our oil and gas production to attempt to mitigate this problem to some extent. See Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our use of oil and natural gas price hedging contracts involves credit risk and may limit future revenues from price increases while not hedging may result in significant fluctuations in our net income and stockholders’ equity. We enter into hedging transactions for our oil and natural gas production to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas. We may in the future enter into additional hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the market prices of oil and natural gas. Hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including if production is less than expected or the other party to the contract defaults on its obligations. Hedging transactions may limit the benefit we otherwise would have received from increases in the price for oil and natural gas, when the respective price goes above our hedged price. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, operation, and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. We currently own an interest in several wells that are capable of producing but may be curtailed from time to time at some point in the future pending gas sales contract negotiations, as well as construction of gas gathering systems, pipelines, and processing facilities. Our credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants, and we may have difficulty obtaining additional credit, which could adversely affect our operations. Our revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by our lender in its sole discretion, based upon, among other things, our level of proved reserves and the projected revenues from the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. The lender can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lender. Upon a downward adjustment of the borrowing base, if borrowings in excess of the revised borrowing base are outstanding, we could be forced to repay our indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base under the revolving credit facility if we do not have any substantial unpledged properties to pledge as additional collateral. We may not have sufficient funds to make repayments under our revolving credit facility. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt or will be able to refinance such debt through equity financings or additional debt arrangements, or by selling assets. The terms of our revolving credit facility also may prohibit us from taking such actions without the consent of the lender. We cannot assure you that any such offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed. Our debt level and the covenants in the agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences for our operations, including: 19 Table of Contents • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities; • limiting our flexibility reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less-leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because borrowings under our credit facility may be at floating interest rates which are subject to change from time to time, based on LIBOR or U.S. prime rates. The instruments governing our indebtedness contain various covenants limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business. Our revolving credit facility contains various restrictive covenants that limit our management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these agreements will limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; • make loans to others; • make investments; • incur additional indebtedness; • create certain liens; • sell assets; • enter into agreements that allow dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries to us; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of the assets of us and our subsidiaries taken as a whole; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • enter into hedging contracts; • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and • enter into sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, our revolving credit facility also requires us to maintain a certain working capital ratio and a certain debt to EBITDAX (as defined in the revolving credit facility as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and exploration expense) ratio. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in the revolving credit facility (or any other subsequent financing agreements), a default may occur which might allow the creditors (if the agreements so provide) to accelerate the related indebtedness as well as any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to make available further funds. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations can adversely affect the conduct of drilling activities on our properties. Oil and natural gas operations can be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife, particularly in the Rocky Mountain region where we currently operate. In 20 Table of Contents certain areas, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities can only be conducted during the spring and summer months. This may limit operations in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. Resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Our reserves and future net revenues may differ significantly from our estimates. The estimates of reserves and future net revenues are not exact and are based on many variable and uncertain factors; therefore, the estimates may vary substantially from the actual amounts depending, in part, on the assumptions made and may be subject to adjustment either up or down in the future. The actual amounts of production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves to be encountered may vary substantially from the estimated amounts. In addition, estimates of reserves are extremely sensitive to the market prices for oil and gas. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. We currently have key employees that serve in senior management roles. The loss of any one of these employees could severely harm our business. Although we have a life insurance policy on our Chief Executive Officer, of which we are a part beneficiary, we do not currently maintain key man insurance on the lives of any of the other key employees. Furthermore, competition for experienced personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. We may incur non-cash charges to our operations as a result of current and future financing transactions. Under current accounting rules, we have incurred $2.6 million of non-cash charges for the year ended December 31, 2007, and may incur additional non-cash charges to future operations beyond the stated contractual interest payments required under our current and potential future financing arrangements. While such charges are generally non-cash, they impact our results of operations and earnings per share and have been and may be material. Risks Relating To Our Common Stock Our insiders beneficially own a significant portion of our stock. As of March 10, 2008 our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons beneficially own approximately 14.44% of our common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have significant influence to: • elect or defeat the election of our directors; • amend or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; • effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and • affect the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for vote. In addition, sales of significant amounts of shares held by our directors and executive officers, or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Management’s stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. The anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and shareholder rights plan, and of certain provisions of Delaware corporate law, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other “change in control” of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our amended certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, our shareholder rights plan and Delaware General Corporation Law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or our management which stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions include the following: 21 Table of Contents • We are authorized to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stockholders; • We have a shareholder rights plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our Board of Directors and principal shareholders. • We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”). In general, Section 203 of the DGCL prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder. A “business combination” includes a merger, sale of 10% or more of our assets and certain other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the stockholder. For purposes of Section 203, an “interested stockholder” includes any person that is: • the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation; • an affiliate or associate of the corporation and was the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation, at any time within three years immediately prior to the relevant date; and • an affiliate or associate of the persons defined as an interested stockholder. Any one of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 