ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with our Company We are an exploration stage company with no current source of revenue. Our ability to continue in business depends upon our continued ability to obtain significant financing from external sources and the success of our exploration efforts, none of which can be assured. We were incorporated in April 2000 and are still an exploration stage company. We have incurred negative cash flows from our operations, and presently all exploration activities and overhead expenses are financed solely by way of the issue and sale of equity securities. The recoverability of the costs we have incurred to date is uncertain and is dependent upon achieving commercial production or sale, none of which can be assured. Our operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in exploration stage companies with no revenues or operating income. Our potential for success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with a new business, especially the oil and gas exploration business, and in particular the deep, wildcat wells in which we are engaged in Israel. We cannot warrant or provide any assurance that our business objectives will be accomplished. Our ability to continue in business depends upon our continued ability to obtain the necessary financing from external sources to undertake further exploration and development activities and generate profitable operations from oil and natural gas interests in the future. We incurred net losses of $52,182,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, $27,658,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $4,424,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009, and $108,669,000 for period from April 6, 2000 (inception) to December 31, 2011. All of our audited financial statements since inception have contained a statement by the auditors that raises substantial doubt about us being able to continue as a "going concern" unless we are able to raise additional capital. 21 We expect to incur substantial expenditures in our exploration and development programs. Our existing cash balances will not be sufficient to satisfy current obligations and meet our exploration and development commitments and plans. We are considering various alternatives to remedy any future shortfall in capital. We may deem it necessary to raise capital through equity markets, debt markets or other financing arrangements, including participation arrangements that may be available. Because of the absence of any oil and natural gas reserves and revenues, there can be no assurance this capital will be available on commercially acceptable terms (or at all) and if it is not, we may be forced to substantially curtail or cease exploration expenditures which could lead to our inability to meet all of our commitments. Our consolidated financial statements do not reflect the adjustments or reclassifications of assets and liabilities that would be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. We require significant capital to realize our business plan. Our planned work program is expensive. We believe that our current cash resources are sufficient to allow us to undertake non-drilling exploratory activities in our current license, spud one additional exploratory well in one of our exploration license areas in 2012 and otherwise meet our plans through December 31, 2012. This assessment is premised on our spudding our next exploratory well in the October-November 2012 time-frame. We estimate that, when we are not actively drilling a well, our monthly expenditure is approximately $600,000 per month. However, when we are engaged in active drilling operations, we estimate that there is an additional cost of approximately $2,500,000 per month. Accordingly, we anticipate that we will have to seek additional financing in 2012. We have no commitments for any financing and no assurance can be provided that we will be able to raise funds when needed. Further, we cannot assure you that our actual cash requirements will not exceed our estimates. Even if we were to discover hydrocarbons in commercial quantities, case we will require additional financing to bring our interests into commercial operation and pay for operating expenses until we achieve a positive cash flow. Additional capital also may be required in the event we incur any significant unanticipated expenses. Under the current capital and credit market conditions, we may not be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing on acceptable terms. Even if financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are favorable to us or in sufficient amounts to satisfy our requirements. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to implement our business plan and our growth strategies, respond to changing business or economic conditions and withstand adverse operating results. If we are unable to raise further financing when required, our planned exploration activities may have to be scaled down or even ceased, and our ability to generate revenues in the future would be negatively affected. Additional financing could cause your relative interest in our assets and potential earnings to be significantly diluted. Even if we have exploration success, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset the cost of dry holes and general and administrative expenses. 22 We will not be able to comply with the terms of one or more of our licenses which may result in the loss or forfeiture of such license(s). The loss or forfeiture of any of our licenses may have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. By the terms of the Asher-Menashe License, we were required to prepare an interpretation of the new seismic survey and its integration with existing seismic lines by March 1, 2012. The additional seismic survey we are contemplating in the Asher-Menashe license area requires bringing an appropriate rig to the Elijah #3 well site. Due to the lack of suitable available equipment in Israel, we have been unable to secure the requisite equipment and personnel within the time frame set out in the license terms. We have identified an Israeli based rig operator that has the requisite drilling equipment; however, their rig will become available only in the May-June 2012 time frame . Hence, we will not be able to process and interpret the results of the new seismic survey prior to the extension of the license term on June 9, 2012. We have formally informed the Petroleum Commissioner of the delay in procuring the necessary rig and have requested additional time in the form of a one-year license extension. At this point, we are unable to assess the implication of our prospective non-compliance with the express terms of the Asher-Menashe License extension. Under the terms of the Joseph License, we were required to, among other things, (i) sign an agreement with an appropriate geological services provider to acquire approximately 15 kilometers of 2-D seismic by March 1, 2012 and are required to (ii) perform the seismic survey, process and integrate the data and submit the process report and ancillary material to the National archives at the Geophysics Institute by June 1, 2012, (iii) process and integrate the results of the new seismic survey with existing seismic lines, update the geophysical maps and submit a geophysical summary and file a report with the Commissioner by August 1, 2012, (iv) identify a new drilling prospect by September 1, 2012 that includes a description of the geological background, the purposes of the drilling, the petroleum system/s that are related therein and a geological forecast and engineering plan and (v) sign a drilling contract to drill a new well (or re-enter an existing well) by October 1, 2012. We have entered into an agreement to obtain approximately 16 kilometers of seismic data in the southern portion of the license area. However, as we plan to drill our next exploratory well in either the Asher-Menashe or Jordan Valley License area, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to enter into an agreement to drill a new exploratory well in the Joseph License area (or re-enter an exiting wellbore) by the required date of October 1, 2012. At this point, we are unable to assess the implication of our possible prospective non-compliance with the express terms of the Joseph License extension. Finally, under the terms of the Jordan Valley License, we are required to sign a drilling contract to drill a new well by mid-October 2012. We are also required to complete drilling a new exploratory well to approximately 5,000 meters in such license area by mid-April 2013. Based on the advice provided to us by the Geophysical Institute of Israel, our seismic testing services provider, the seismic will be performed in March 2012. Following the completion and interpretation of the seismic data in the Asher-Menashe license area and the Jordan Valley License area, we hope to be able to identify our next drilling site. We anticipate that we will make a final determination as to the drill site in the third quarter of 2012. It is highly likely that the site of our next exploratory well will be in either the Jordan Valley or the Asher Menashe License area. We have no control over the timing of the performance of the seismic surveys. The time frames in which the seismic surveys are to be performed are projections based on the advice provided by our seismic provider as to when the suitable equipment and/or personnel will become available. No assurance can be provided that these time frames will be met. 23 At this point, we are unable to assess the implication of our possible non-compliance with the express terms of one or more of our licenses. The loss or forfeiture of one or more of current licenses may adversely affect our business and prospects. We have not yet signed an agreement with a drilling contractor and, thus, we may be unable to continue our planned drilling operations within the contemplated time-frame. Following the completion of the Ma’anit-Joseph #3 well, the drilling rig that we used to drill our last three exploratory wells was exported by the owner from Israel, in January 2012. As of March 5, 2012, we are in discussions with a drilling contractor with respect to our drilling program. However, until such time as we sign a legally binding agreement, there can be no assurance that we will be able to come to an agreement with the drilling contractor to drill our planned well(s) on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Under the current terms of two of our licenses, unless we commence the drilling of a well by certain specified dates (which dates are subject to extension by the Petroleum Commissioner), we risk losing each of the licenses. The date specified for the Asher-Menashe License is June 1, 2012 and the date specified for the Jordan Valley License is April 12, 2013. For the Joseph License, we are required to execute a contract with a drilling contractor to drill a new well (or re-enter an existing wellbore in such license area) by October 1, 2012. Any delay in our drilling timetables can have a material adverse effect on our rights under our licenses and on the implementation of our business plan. We rely on independent experts and technical or operational service providers over whom we may have limited control. The success of our oil and gas exploration efforts is dependent upon the efforts of various third parties that we do not control. These third parties provide critical engineering, geological, geophysical and other scientific analytical services, including 2-D seismic imaging technology to explore for and develop oil and gas prospects. Given our small size and limited resources, we do not have all the required expertise on staff. As a result, we rely upon various companies and other third persons to assist us in identifying desirable hydrocarbon prospects to acquire and to provide us with technical assistance and services. In addition, we rely upon the owners and operators of drilling rigs and related equipment. If any of these relationships with third-party service providers are terminated or are unavailable on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our limited control over the activities and business practices of these third parties, any inability on our part to maintain satisfactory commercial relationships with them, their limited availability or their failure to provide quality services could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We typically commence exploration drilling operations without undertaking extensive analytical testing thereby potentially increasing the risk (and associated costs) of drilling a non-producing well. Larger oil and gas exploration companies typically conduct extensive analytical pre drilling testing. These include 3-D seismic imaging, the drilling of an expendable “pilot” well or “stratigraphic test” to collect data (logs, cores, fluid samples, pressure data) to determine if drilling a well capable of producing oil or gas well (full completion with casing and well testing) is justified. The use of pilot or stratigraphic tests is often used in areas where there is little or no offset well data, like Israel, where our exploration license and permits areas are located. While 3-D seismic imaging data is more useful than 2-D data in identifying potential new drilling prospect, its acquisition and processing costs are many multiples greater than that for 2-D data, and GII, our primary provider of geophysical data, has limited ability to acquire and process onshore 3-D data. In addition to using 2-D seismic technology prior to drilling, we have historically also utilized gravity and magnetic data, built cross section maps from offset wells and utilized geophysical analysis from similar geologic targets. We believe that the additional months, delays and associated costs associated with more extensive pre-drilling testing typically undertaken by larger oil and gas exploration companies is not necessarily justified when drilling vertical exploration wells (as we have historically been doing). Nonetheless, the absence of more extensive pre-drilling testing may potentially increase the risk of drilling a non-producing well, which would in turn result in increased costs and expenses. Additionally, we are typically engaged in drilling very deep onshore wildcat wells in Israel where only approximately 500 total wells have ever been drilled, the vast majority of which are relatively substantially shallower. As such, exploration risks are inherently very substantial. 24 The failure to obtain the approval of applications submitted for new exploration licenses and exploration permits would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects We currently have pending before the Commissioner applications for one exploration license and two preliminary exploration permits. In February 2011, we submitted to the Commissioner a license application for an area covering approximately 74,925 acres of land within the vicinity of the Dead Sea, in central Israel, which we have named the Dead Sea License Application as well as an application for a preliminary exploration permit covering part of the area previously covered by the our previous Issachar-Zebulun Permit, which expired on February 23, 2011. We named the new permit application the Zebulun Permit Application. Subsequently, in June 2011, we submitted an application to the Commissioner for a preliminary exploration permit on an area adjacent to our Joseph License area. We named the new permit application the “Asher-Joseph Permit Application”. No assurance can be provided that we will be ultimately awarded the Dead Sea License Application or the Zebulun Permit Application or the Asher-Joseph Permit Application. The Petroleum Commissioner’s refusal to award these applications could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Deterioration of political, economic and security conditions in Israel may adversely affect our operations. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a substantial decline in the prevailing regional security situation or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Beginning in September 2000, the overall relationship and security situation between Israel and the Palestinians deteriorated significantly and continues to be marked by ongoing violence, also varying in its degree of severity. During the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party; and during the winter of 2008-2009, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas, a militia group and political party operating in the Gaza Strip. These conflicts involved missile strikes against civilian targets in various parts of. To date, these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. 25 In addition, civil unrest, often accompanied by violence, has spread throughout the region. Protestors have demanded economic and political reforms, and to date, there have been several regime changes in other countries. Civil unrest could continue to spread throughout the region or grow in intensity, leading to regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to the US, civil wars, or regional conflict. There have also been rising international tensions over Iran, which was censured by the United Nations over suspicions that it is trying to develop nuclear weapons. Certain countries have considered actions ranging from economic sanctions to pre-emptive strikes on suspected nuclear sites, and Iranian officials have threatened retaliation by, among other actions, closing the Strait of Hormuz, through which a significant portion of the global crude oil supply is transported. Prolonged and/or widespread regional conflict in the Middle East could have the following results, among others: · Capital market reassessment of risk and subsequent redeployment of capital to more stable areas making it more difficult for us to obtain financing for potential development projects; · security concerns in Israel, making it more difficult for our personnel or supplies to enter or exit the country; · security concerns leading to evacuation of our personnel; · damage to or destruction of our wells, production facilities, receiving terminals or other operating assets; · inability of our service and equipment providers to deliver items necessary for us to conduct our operations in, resulting in delays; and · lack of availability of drilling rig and experienced crew, oilfield equipment or services if third party providers decide to exit the region. Loss of property and/or interruption of our business plans resulting from hostile acts could have a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow. In addition, we may not have enough insurance to cover any loss of property or other claims resulting from these risks. We have a history of losses and we cannot assure you that we will ever be profitable. We incurred net losses of $52,182,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, $27,658,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $4,424,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009, and $108,669,000 for period from April 6, 2000 (inception) to December 31, 2011. We cannot provide any assurance that we will ever be profitable. 26 Earnings, if any, will be diluted due to charitable contributions and key employee incentive plans. We are legally bound to fund in the form of a royalty interest or equivalent net operating profits interest, 6% of our gross sales revenues, if any, to two charitable foundations. In addition, we may allocate 1.5% royalty interest or equivalent net operating profits interest to a key employee incentive plan designed as bonus compensation over and above our executive compensation payments. This means that the total royalty burden on our property (including the government royalty of 12.5%) may be up to 20% of gross revenue. As our expenses increase with respect to the amount of sales, these donations and allocation could significantly dilute future earnings and, thus, depress the price of the common stock. Risks Associated with our Business We are subject to increasing Israeli governmental regulations and environmental requirements that may cause us to incur substantial incremental costs and/or delays in our drilling program. Our business is subject to laws and regulations promulgated by the State if Israel relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and marketing of, crude oil and natural gas, as well as safety matters. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make substantial expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. Environmental laws and regulations change frequently and the implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations could adversely impact our operations. The discharge of natural gas, crude oil, or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to substantial liabilities on our part to government agencies and third parties and may require us to incur substantial costs of remediation. In addition, we may incur costs and penalties in addressing regulatory agency procedures involving instances of possible non-compliance. Our lack of diversification increases the risk of an investment in us, and our financial condition and results of operations may deteriorate if we fail to diversify. Our business focus is on oil and gas exploration on a limited number of properties in Israel and exploitation of any significant reserves that are found. As a result, we lack diversification, in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. We will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate than we would if our business were more diversified. If we are unable to diversify our operations, our financial condition and results of operations could deteriorate. We currently have no proved reserves or current production and we may never have any. We do not have any proved reserves or current production of oil or gas. We cannot assure you that any wells will be completed or produce oil or gas in commercially profitable quantities. 27 Oil and gas exploration is an inherently risky business. Exploratory drilling involves enormous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be discovered. Even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data analysis and other computer simulation techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in trying to identify subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically available. The risk analysis techniques we use in evaluating potential drilling sites rely on subjective judgments of our personnel and consultants. Additionally, Zion is typically engaged in drilling very deep onshore wildcat wells in Israel where only approximately 500 total wells have ever been drilled, the vast majority of which are relatively substantially shallower. As such, exploration risks are inherently very substantial. A substantial and extended decline in oil or natural gas prices could adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our unproved oil and gas assets. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely. Fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas will affect many aspects of our business, including our ability to attract capital to finance our operations, our cost of capital, and the value of our unproved oil and natural gas properties. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a wide variety of additional factors (such as the current political turmoil in the Middle East) that are beyond our control, such as the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls, technological advances affecting energy consumption, and domestic and foreign governmental regulations. Significant and extended reductions in oil and natural gas prices could require us to reduce our capital expenditures and impair the carrying value of our assets. If we are successful in finding commercial quantities of oil and/or gas, our revenues, operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital will depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Declines in oil and gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and operating results. Lower oil and gas prices also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we could produce economically. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile, making it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of oil and gas. The insurance we carry is insufficient to cover all of the risks we face, which could result in significant financial exposure. Exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other unfortuitous events such as blowouts, well cratering, fire and explosion and loss of well control which can result in damage to or destruction of wells, injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property and the environment. Exploration and production activities are also subject to risk from political developments such as terrorist acts, piracy, civil disturbances, war, expropriation or nationalization of assets, which can cause loss of or damage to our property. As is customary within our industry, we maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential perils confronting our operations and in coverage amounts and deductible levels that we believe to be economic. Consistent with that profile, our insurance program is structured to provide us financial protection from unfavorable loss severity resulting from damages to or the loss of physical assets or loss of human life, liability claims of third parties, and exploratory drilling interruption attributed to certain assets and including such occurrences as well blowouts and resulting oil spills, at a level that balances cost of insurance with our assessment of risk and our ability to achieve a reasonable rate of return on our investments. Although we believe the coverages and amounts of insurance carried are adequate and consistent with industry practice, we do not have insurance protection against all the risks we face, because we chose not to insure certain risks, insurance is not available at a level that balances the cost of insurance and our desired rates of return, or actual losses exceed coverage limits. We regularly review our risks of loss and the cost and availability of insurance and revise our insurance program accordingly. 28 If an event occurs that is not covered by insurance or not fully protected by insured limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face various risks associated with the trend toward increased activism against oil and gas exploration and development activities. Opposition toward oil and gas drilling and development activity has been growing globally and is particularly pronounced in OECD countries which include the US, the UK and Israel. Companies in the oil and gas industry, such as us, are often the target of activist efforts from both individuals and non-governmental organizations regarding safety, human rights, environmental compliance and business practices. Future activist efforts could result in the following: · delay or denial of drilling permits; · shortening of lease terms or reduction in lease size; · restrictions on installation or operation of gathering or processing facilities; · restrictions on the use of certain operating practices, such as hydraulic fracturing; · legal challenges or lawsuits; · damaging publicity about us; · increased costs of doing business; · reduction in demand for our products; and · other adverse affects on our ability to develop our properties and expand production. Our need to incur costs associated with responding to these initiatives or complying with any resulting new legal or regulatory requirements resulting from these activities that are substantial and not adequately provided for, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Economic risks may adversely affect our operations and/or inhibit our ability to raise additional capital. Economically, our operations in Israel may be subject to: · exchange rate fluctuations; · royalty and tax increases and other risks arising out of Israeli State sovereignty over the mineral rights in Israel and its taxing authority; and · changes in Israel's economy that could cause the legislation of oil and gas price controls. Consequently, our operations may be substantially affected by local economic factors beyond our control, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance and prospects. Legal risks could negatively affect Zion’s value. Legally, our operations in Israel may be subject to: · changes in the Petroleum Law resulting in modification of license and permit rights; · adoption of new legislation relating to the terms and conditions pursuant to which operations in the energy sector may be conducted; · changes in laws and policies affecting operations of foreign-based companies in Israel; and · changes in governmental energy and environmental policies or the personnel administering them. The Israeli Ministry of Energy and Water Resources is considering proposed legislation relating to licensing requirements for entities engaged in the fuel sector that, if adopted as currently proposed, may result in our having to obtain additional licenses to market and sell hydrocarbons that may be discovered by us. We cannot now predict whether or in what form the proposed legislation may be adopted or, if adopted, its possible impact on our operations. Further, in the event of a legal dispute in Israel, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of Israeli courts or we may not be successful in subjecting persons who are not United States residents to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States, either of which could adversely affect the outcome of a dispute. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is considering proposed legislation relating to polluted materials, including their production, treatment, handling, storage and transportation, that may affect land or water resources. Persons engaged in activities involving these types of materials will be required to prepare environmental impact statements and remediation plans either prior to commencing activities or following the occurrence of an event that may cause pollution to land or water resources or endanger public health. We do now know and cannot predict whether any legislation in this area will be enacted and, if so, in what form and which of its provisions, if any, will relate to and affect our activities, how and to what extent. 30 Our petroleum rights (including licenses and permits) could be canceled, terminated or not extended, and we would not be able to successfully execute our business plan. Any license or other petroleum right we hold or may be granted is granted for fixed periods and requires compliance with a work program detailed in the license or other petroleum right. If we do not fulfill the relevant work program due to inadequate funding or for any other reason, the Israeli government may terminate the license or any other petroleum right before its scheduled expiration date. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to obtain an extension to this if in fact we are unable to begin drilling by such date. Under the terms of the Asher-Menashe License, as recently extended, we are required, among other things, to identify a new drilling prospect by April 1, 2012 and to commence drilling such prospect by June 1, 2012. Under the terms of the Joseph License, as recently extended, we are required, among other things, to identify a new drilling prospect by September 1, 2012 and to execute a drilling contract for such prospect (or re-enter an existing wellbore) by October 1, 2012. However, we may not be able to identify drilling prospects or execute drilling contracts by the specified dates. Such non-compliance could result in the Commissioner’s termination of these licenses. Any such development may have an adverse material effect on our business and prospects. There are limitations on the transfer of interests in our petroleum rights, which could impair our ability to raise additional funds to execute our business plan. The Israeli government has the right to approve any transfer of rights and interests in any license or other petroleum right we hold or may be granted and any mortgage of any license or other petroleum rights to borrow money. If we attempt to raise additional funds through borrowings or joint ventures with other companies and are unable to obtain required approvals from the government, the value of your investment could be significantly diluted or even lost. Our dependence on the limited contractors, equipment and professional services available in Israel may result in increased costs and possibly material delays in our work schedule. Due to the lack of competitive resources in Israel, costs for our operations may be more expensive than costs for similar operations in other parts of the world. We are also more likely to incur delays in our drilling schedule and be subject to a greater risk of failure in meeting our required work schedule. Similarly, some of the oil field personnel we need to undertake our planned operations are not necessarily available in Israel or available on short notice for work in Israel. Any or all of the factors specified above may result in increased costs and delays in the work schedule. Our dependence on Israeli local licenses and permits may require more funds than we have budgeted and may cause delays in our work schedule. In connection with drilling operations, we are subject to a number of Israeli local licenses and permits. Some of these are issued by the Israeli security forces, the Civil Aviation Authority, the Israeli Water Commission, the Israel Lands Authority, the holders of the surface rights in the lands on which we intend to conduct drilling operations local and regional planning commissions and environmental authorities. In the event of a commercial discovery and depending on the nature of the discovery and the production and related distribution equipment necessary to produce and sell the discovered hydrocarbons, we will be subject to additional licenses and permits, including from various departments in the Ministry of Energy and Water Resources regional and local planning commissions, the environmental authorities and the Israel Lands Authority. If we are unable to obtain some or all of these permits or the time required to obtain them is longer than anticipated, we may have to alter or delay our planned work schedule, which would increase our costs. 31 If we are successful in finding commercial quantities of oil and/or gas, our operations will be subject to laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment, which can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of our doing business. Many Israeli laws and regulations require permits for the operation of various facilities, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations could subject us to fines, injunctions or both. If compliance with environmental regulations is more expensive than anticipated, it could adversely impact the profitability of our business. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are inherent in oil and gas operations. It is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from oil and gas exploration and production, would result in substantial costs and liabilities. This could also cause our insurance premiums to be significantly greater than anticipated. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, other oil field services and personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and oilfield services. There may also be a shortage of trained and experienced personnel. During these periods, the costs of such items are substantially greater and their availability may be limited, particularly in locations that typically have limited availability of equipment and personnel, such as the Eastern Mediterranean, where our operations are located. During periods of increasing levels of industry exploration and production, the demand for, and cost of, drilling rigs and oilfield services increases. The recovery of global crude oil prices during 2011 is resulting in increased global exploration and production activity, thus increasing demand pressure for drilling rigs and oilfield services, which could result in sector inflation. As a result, drilling rigs and oilfield services may not be available at rates that provide a satisfactory return on our investment. Risks Related to our Common Stock We will likely issue additional common stock in the future, which would dilute our existing stockholders. In the future we anticipate issuing additional securities in connection with capital raising efforts, including shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our stockholders. We are authorized under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of February 21, 2012, there were 30,447,211 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. 32 We have effective shelf registration statements from which additional shares of our common stock and other securities can be issued. In addition, we may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future issuances of our common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and investment opportunities. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The public market for our common stock has been characterized by significant price and volume fluctuations. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not decline below its current or historic price ranges. The market price may bear no relationship to the prospects, stage of development, existence of oil and gas reserves, revenues, earnings, assets or potential of our company and may not be indicative of our future business performance. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations. Fluctuations in the price of oil and gas and related international political events can be expected to affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies, sometimes unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results, • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors, • conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry, • the success of our operating strategy, and • the operating and stock performance of other comparable companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. 33 In addition, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Such litigation, if instituted, and irrespective of the outcome of such litigation, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 