ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are an exploration stage company with no current source of income and, consequently, our financial condition has been unsound in the past and might again be so in the future. We were incorporated in April 2000 and are still an exploration stage company. Our operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in exploration stage companies with no revenues or operating income. Our potential for success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with a new business, especially the oil and gas exploration business. We cannot warrant or provide any assurance that our business objectives will be accomplished. All of our audited financial statements since inception have contained a statement by the auditors that raise substantial doubt about us being able to continue as a "going concern" unless we are able to raise additional capital. We may require additional funds to drill additional wells and we currently have no financing commitments. Our planned work program is expensive. Following the receipt of gross proceeds of $21 million from the rights offering that we completed in June 2009 and the additional $18 million from the second rights offering we completed in November 2009, we believe that our cash reserves are sufficient to enable us to complete the well we are currently drilling (the Elijah #3), as well as our planned subsequent well, the Ma'anit-Joseph #3 well. 16 We are in the process of finalizing the location of our next drilling location and plan to drill the Ma'anit-Joseph #3 well in the vicinity of the Ma'anit-Rehoboth #2 well. We believe that our available cash resources will be sufficient to support our plan of operations through the end of 2010, including drilling the planned Ma’anit-Joseph #3 well. To continue our drilling beyond that point, we will need to raise additional capital. We may also need to raise additional capital in order to take advantage of business opportunities that become available to us. We have no commitments for any financing. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to raise funds when needed. In any event, any additional financing could cause your relative interest in our assets and potential earnings to be significantly diluted. Even if we have exploration success, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset the cost of dry holes and general and administrative expenses. A substantial and extended decline in oil or natural gas prices could adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our unproved oil & gas assets. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely. Fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas will affect many aspects of our business, including our ability to attract capital to finance our operations, our cost of capital, and the value of our unproved oil and natural gas properties. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a wide variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls, technological advances affecting energy consumption, and domestic and foreign governmental regulations. Significant and extended reductions in oil and natural gas prices could require us to reduce our capital expenditures and impair the carrying value of our assets. If we are successful in finding commercial quantities of oil and/or gas, our revenues, operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital will depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Declines in oil and gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and operating results. Lower oil and gas prices also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we could produce economically. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile, making it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of oil and gas. Subject to the completion of our testing procedures, we may incur substantial impairment write-down with respect to Ma’anit-Rehoboth #2 well and/or the Elijah #3 well. We account for our oil and gas property costs using the full-cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Accordingly, all costs associated with acquisition, exploration and development of oil and gas reserves, including directly related overhead costs, are capitalized. We record an investment impairment charge when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary. We drilled the Ma’anit-Rehoboth #2 well to a depth of 17,913 feet (5,460 meters). We are currently in the process of testing the identified ‘zones of interest’ individually for recoverable hydrocarbons. In the event that following these testing procedures we conclusively determine that the well is incapable of producing oil and/or gas in commercial quantities, then we will need to abandon the well. Following the completion of drilling and log analysis, based on the results of our findings we may also determine to abandon the Elijah #3 well. Abandonment of properties is accounted for as adjustments to capitalized costs. The net capitalized costs are subject to a “ceiling test,” which limits such costs to the aggregate of the estimated present value of future net revenues from proved reserves discounted at ten percent based on current economic and operating conditions, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. The recoverability of amounts capitalized for oil and gas properties is dependent upon the identification of economically recoverable reserves, together with obtaining the necessary financing to exploit such reserves and the achievement of profitable operations. 17 We review our unproved oil and gas properties periodically to determine whether they have been impaired. An impairment allowance is provided on an unproved property when we determine that the property will not be developed. Any impairment charge incurred is recorded in accumulated depletion, impairment and amortization to reduce our recorded basis in the asset. A failure to obtain extensions of our exploration licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The Asher-Menashe License has a three-year term, which commenced on June 10, 2007 and runs through June 9, 2010, which may be extended for up to an additional four years as provided by the Petroleum Law. The Joseph License has a three-year term, which commenced on October 11, 2007 and runs through October 10, 2010, which may be extended for an additional four years as provided by the Petroleum Law. We are currently in the process of filing applications for the purpose of obtaining an extension to each of these licenses from the Israel Petroleum Commissioner. While we anticipate that the extension will be granted, no assurance can be given that such extension will be forthcoming. The Israel Petroleum Commissioner’s refusal to extend the license, or even a delay in the receipt of the extensions, can have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We have no proved reserves or current production and we may never have any. We do not have any proved reserves or current production of oil or gas. We cannot assure you that any wells will be completed or produce oil or gas in commercially profitable quantities. We have a history of losses and we cannot assure you that we will ever be profitable. We incurred net losses of $4,424,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009, $4,018,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008, and $28,829,000 for period from April 6, 2000 (inception) to December 31, 2009. We cannot provide any assurance that we will ever be profitable. Oil and gas exploration is an inherently risky business. Exploratory drilling involves enormous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be discovered. Even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data analysis and other computer simulation techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in trying to identify subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically available. The risk analysis techniques we use in evaluating potential drilling sites rely on subjective judgments of our personnel and consultants. Operating hazards and uninsured risks with respect to the oil and gas operations may have material adverse effects on our operations. Our exploration and, if successful, development and production operations are subject to all of the risks normally incident to the exploration for and the development and production of oil and gas, including blowouts, cratering, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution and other environmental and operating risks. These hazards could result in substantial losses due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. While as a matter of practice we take out insurance against some or all of these risks, such insurance may not cover the particular hazard and may not be sufficient to cover all losses. The occurrence of a significant event adversely affecting any of the oil and gas properties in which we have an interest could have a material adverse affect on us, could materially affect our continued operation and could expose us to material liability. 18 Political risks may adversely affect our operations and/or inhibit our ability to raise capital. Our operations are concentrated in Israel and could be directly affected by political, economic and military conditions in Israel. Efforts to secure a lasting peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors and Palestinian residents have been underway since Israel became a country in 1948 and the future of these peace efforts is still uncertain. Kibbutz Ma'anit (where we drilled our first and second wells) is in an area adjacent to Israeli Arab towns where anti-Israeli rioting broke out in late 2000. On December 27, 2008, Israel began a military offensive against the Hamas terrorist organization based in Gaza. (Gaza is in the South and our license areas are in the North of Israel.) Currently, a cease-fire is in effect. Any future armed conflict, political instability or continued violence in the region could have a negative effect on our operations and business conditions in Israel, as well as our ability to raise additional capital necessary for completion of our exploration program. Economic risks may adversely affect our operations and/or inhibit our ability to raise additional capital. Economically, our operations in Israel may be subject to: · exchange rate fluctuations; · royalty and tax increases and other risks arising out of Israeli State sovereignty over the mineral rights in Israel and its taxing authority; and · changes in Israel's economy that could cause the legislation of oil and gas price controls. Consequently, our operations may be substantially affected by local economic factors beyond our control, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance and prospects. Legal risks could negatively affect the value of Zion. Legally, our operations in Israel may be subject to: · changes in the Petroleum Law resulting in modification of license and permit rights; · adoption of new legislation relating to the terms and conditions pursuant to which operations in the energy sector may be conducted; · changes in laws and policies affecting operations of foreign-based companies in Israel; and · changes in governmental energy and environmental policies or the personnel administering them. The Israeli Ministry of National Infrastructures is considering proposed legislation relating to licensing requirements for entities engaged in the fuel sector that, if adopted as currently proposed, may result in our having to obtain additional licenses to market and sell hydrocarbons that may be discovered by us. We have been advised by the Ministry that they do not intend to deprive a holder of petroleum rights under the Petroleum Law of its right under that law to sell hydrocarbons discovered and produced under its petroleum rights. See “BUSINESS—Proposed Legislation” at page 13. We cannot now predict whether or in what form the proposed legislation may be adopted or, if adopted, its possible impact on our operations. Further, in the event of a legal dispute in Israel, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of Israeli courts or we may not be successful in subjecting persons who are not United States residents to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States, either of which could adversely affect the outcome of a dispute. 19 The Ministry of Environmental Protection is considering proposed legislation relating to polluted materials, including their production, treatment, handling, storage and transportation, that may affect land or water resources. Persons engaged in activities involving these types of materials will be required to prepare environmental impact statements and remediation plans either prior to commencing activities or following the occurrence of an event that may cause pollution to land or water resources or endanger public health. See “BUSINESS—Environmental Matters” at page 12. We do now know and cannot predict whether any legislation in this area will be enacted and, if so, in what form and which of its provisions, if any, will relate to and affect our activities, how and to what extent. Our petroleum rights (including licenses and permits) could be canceled, terminated or not extended, and we would not be able to successfully execute our business plan. Any license or other petroleum right we hold or may be granted is granted for fixed periods and requires compliance with a work program detailed in the license or other petroleum right. If we do not fulfill the relevant work program due to inadequate funding or for any other reason, the Israeli government may terminate the license or any other petroleum right before its scheduled expiration date. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to obtain an extension to this if in fact we are unable to begin drilling by such date. There are limitations on the transfer of interests in our petroleum rights, which could impair our ability to raise additional funds to execute our business plan. The Israeli government has the right to approve any transfer of rights and interests in any license or other petroleum right we hold or may be granted and any mortgage of any license or other petroleum rights to borrow money. If we attempt to raise additional funds through borrowings or joint ventures with other companies and are unable to obtain required approvals from the government, the value of your investment could be significantly diluted or even lost. Our dependence on the limited contractors, equipment and professional services available in Israel may result in increased costs and possibly material delays in our work schedule. Due to the lack of competitive resources in Israel, costs for our operations may be more expensive than costs for similar operations in other parts of the world. We are also more likely to incur delays in our drilling schedule and be subject to a greater risk of failure in meeting our required work schedule. Similarly, some of the oil field personnel we need to undertake our planned operations are not necessarily available in Israel or available on short notice for work in Israel. Any or all of the factors specified above may result in increased costs and delays in the work schedule. Our dependence on Israeli local licenses and permits may require more funds than we have budgeted and may cause delays in our work schedule. In connection with drilling operations, we are subject to a number of Israeli local licenses and permits. Some of these are issued by the Israeli security forces, the Civil Aviation Authority, the Israeli Water Commission, the Israel Lands Authority, the holders of the surface rights in the lands on which we intend to conduct drilling operations, including Kibbutz Ma'anit, Kibbutz Ein Carmel local and regional planning commissions, and environmental authorities. The surface rights to the drill site on which we drilled the Ma’anit-Rehoboth #2 well are held under a long-term lease by Kibbutz Ma'anit. The rights are owned by the State of Israel and administered by the Israel Lands Authority. Permission necessary to re-enter and use the drill site to conduct petroleum operations has been granted to Zion by the Kibbutz in consideration for a monthly fee of $350. Permission of the Israel Lands Authority for the use of the surface rights is also required, which permission the Israel Lands Authority is required to grant under the Petroleum Law. On August 14, 2008, the Authority granted the required permission for a two-year period (which period may be extended), subject to our paying a one time surface use fee of approximately $455, signing a land use agreement and providing a bank guarantee in the amount of NIS 50,000 (approximately $12,500). The use fee has been paid, the agreement signed and the bank guarantee provided. 20 The surface rights to the drill site on which we are drilling the Elijah #3 well are held under a long-term lease by Kibbutz Ein Carmel. The rights are owned by the State of Israel and administered by the Israel Lands Authority. Permission necessary to re-enter and use the drill site to conduct petroleum operations has been granted to Zion by the Kibbutz in consideration for a one-time fee of approximately $124,000. Permission of the Israel Lands Authority for the use of the surface rights is also required, which permission the Israel Lands Authority is required to grant under the Petroleum Law. We are currently in negotiations with the Authority for such approval. In the event of a commercial discovery and depending on the nature of the discovery and the production and related distribution equipment necessary to produce and sell the discovered hydrocarbons, we will be subject to additional licenses and permits, including from various departments in the Ministry of National Infrastructures, regional and local planning commissions, the environmental authorities and the Israel Lands Authority. If we are unable to obtain some or all of these permits or the time required to obtain them is longer than anticipated, we may have to alter or delay our planned work schedule, which would increase our costs. If we are successful in finding commercial quantities of oil and/or gas, our operations will be subject to laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment, which can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of our doing business. Many Israeli laws and regulations require permits for the operation of various facilities, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations could subject us to fines, injunctions or both. If compliance with environmental regulations is more expensive than anticipated, it could adversely impact the profitability of our business. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are inherent in oil and gas operations. It is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from oil and gas exploration and production, would result in substantial costs and liabilities. This could also cause our insurance premiums to be significantly greater than anticipated. See “BUSINESS – Environmental Matters” at page 12. Earnings will be diluted due to charitable contributions and key employee incentive plan. We are legally bound to fund in the form of a royalty interest or equivalent net operating profits interest, 6% of our gross sales revenues, if any, to two charitable foundations. In addition, we may allocate 1.5% royalty interest or equivalent net operating profits interest to a key employee incentive plan designed as bonus compensation over and above our executive compensation payments. This means that the total royalty burden on our property (including the government royalty of 12.5%) may be up to 20% of gross revenue. As our expenses increase with respect to the amount of sales, these donations and allocation could significantly dilute future earnings and, thus, depress the price of the common stock. The exercise of currently outstanding warrants and options or an offering under our shelf registration statement may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In connection with our Follow On Public Offering which we completed in January 2009, we issued warrants to purchase up to 666,343 shares of our common stock at a per share exercise price of $7.00, exercisable between February 9, 2009 and January 31, 2012. The shares underlying these warrants have been registered and, accordingly, any shares issued upon the exercise of these warrants will be immediately resalable on the open market. As of March 15, 2010, warrants for 607,154 shares of our common stock are currently outstanding. Additionally, we currently have employee stock options outstanding to purchase 484,549 shares of common stock at prices ranging between $0.01 and $8.25 per share, which amount includes 97,000 options granted in January 2009. 21 On January 28, 2010 we filed a registration statement with the SEC on Form S-3 for a shelf offering. As of the date of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, the registration statement has not been declared effective. When declared effective by the SEC, Zion will have the option to offer and sell, from time to time in one or more offerings, up to $50 million of common stock, debt securities, warrants to purchase any of these securities, or any combination of such securities. The securities may be offered in one or more offerings, and at prices subject to prevailing market conditions to be set forth in a supplemental prospectus filing with the SEC at the time of such offering, should such an offering occur. The exercise or possibility of exercise of outstanding warrants and employee stock options, or any offering under the S-3 shelf registration statement that we may complete could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock, and you may experience dilution to your holdings. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires certain companies subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting, and our auditors are required to issue a report concerning the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. It is possible that we could discover certain deficiencies in the design and/or operation of our internal controls that could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data. We have invested and will continue to invest significant resources in this process. We are uncertain as to what impact a conclusion that material weaknesses exist in our internal controls over financial reporting would have on the trading price of our common stock. Cash dividends will not be paid to shareholders for the foreseeable future. You may receive little or no cash or stock dividends on your shares of common stock. The board of directors has not directed the payment of any dividend, does not anticipate paying dividends on the shares for the foreseeable future and intends to retain any future earnings to the extent necessary to develop and expand our business. Payment of cash dividends, if any, will depend, among other factors, on our earnings, capital requirements, and the general operating and financial condition, and will be subject to legal limitations on the payment of dividends out of paid-in capital. Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market for our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results, • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors, • conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry, • the success of our operating strategy, and • the operating and stock performance of other comparable companies. 22 Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. No assurance can be provided that you will be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you acquired those shares in this offering. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will increase to the per share price at which the Unit was offered or that the market price of common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. Future sales of our common stock may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, of which there were 18,748,923 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 15, 2010. An additional 1,557,154 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and options previously issued, including the warrants issued in connection with our follow-on public offering which terminated on January 9, 2009 and 562,451 unissued options under the ESOP. The exercise of these warrants and/or the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in connection with the above would dilute the interest in our company represented by each share of common stock and may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 