D. Risk Factors The following summarizes certain risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We depend on a limited number of pay television system operators for a significant portion of our revenues and the loss of any of our major pay television system operators or renegotiation of existing contractual terms could significantly reduce our revenues. Our five largest pay television system operators accounted for approximately 52% and 49% of our total continuing revenues in the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. The loss of any of our major existing pay television system operators, unless replaced by other operators, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Members of the Cisneros Group and Hicks Muse control Claxson, which could inhibit or cause potential changes of control of Claxson. Members of the Cisneros Group and Hicks Muse control, in the aggregate, approximately 75% of the voting power on all matters submitted to our shareholders and control the outcome of actions requiring the approval of holders of a majority of our common shares, including a material sale or acquisition. In addition, through their ownership of our Class C and Class H common shares, these shareholders are entitled to designate seven of the twelve members of our board of directors. This control could discourage other parties from initiating potential merger, acquisition or other change of control transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, the Cisneros Group and Hicks Muse could use their ownership position to cause a transaction to occur in which either or both of these shareholders or a third party would acquire most or all of Claxson, in which event other shareholders could be deprived of the opportunity to remain shareholders of Claxson. Conflicts may arise between members of the Cisneros Group and Hicks Muse, on the one hand, and our other shareholders, on the other hand, whose interests may differ with respect to, among other things, our strategic direction, significant corporate transactions or corporate opportunities that could be pursued by us or by either or both of our controlling shareholders. Hicks Muse and members of the Cisneros Group could have interests in other businesses which conflict with ours. In addition to their interests in Claxson, members of the Cisneros Group and affiliates of Hicks Muse hold, and may in the future acquire, interests in other media businesses in Ibero America, some of which may compete, or have relationships with strategic partners that compete, with us. In particular, funds affiliated with Hicks Muse own interests in TV Cidade in Brazil and Intercable in Venezuela. Intercable is a significant pay television system operator in Latin America. Persons serving as our directors and members of the Cisneros Group or Hicks Muse may have conflicting interests with respect to the above and other matters. These conflicts could limit our effectiveness in capitalizing on opportunities for growth. 3 Table of Contents Competition in the media industry is intense and we expect it to increase significantly so that any failure by us to compete successfully would adversely affect our financial performance. We derive substantially all of our revenue from subscriber-based fees and advertising, for which we compete with various other media, including newspapers, television, Internet, radio stations and pay television channels that offer customers information and services similar to ours. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We face competition on both country and regional levels. In addition, each of our businesses competes with companies that deliver content through the same platforms and with companies that operate in different media businesses. Our competitors may develop content that is better than our content or that achieves greater market acceptance. Some of our competitors may have better brand recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. We will have to devote significant resources to maintain the competitive position of our brands. Competition in our businesses and markets may limit our ability to expand our market share and increase revenues in these businesses and markets. Our businesses involve risks of liability claims for media content, which could result in significant costs. As a distributor of media content, we may face potential liability for: • defamation; • negligence; • copyright, patent or trademark infringement; and • other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against broadcasters, online services and other disseminators of media content. In addition, we could be exposed to liability in connection with material available through our Internet sites or for information collected from and about our users. Although we carry general liability insurance and errors and omissions insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of defamation, negligence and similar claims, and it may or may not apply to a particular claim or be adequate to reimburse us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. The nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary rights subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. Some companies, including other participants in the media industry, use and/or may use trademarks or service marks in English or other languages which, when translated, are similar to certain of our core marks. This usage may hinder our ability to build a unique brand identity and may lead to trademark disputes. If we lose the right to use a trademark or service mark, we may be forced to adopt a new mark which would result in the loss of substantial resources and brand identity. In any event, even if successful, litigating a trademark dispute would result in expenditures and diversion of executives’ time. Any inability to protect, enforce or use our trademarks, service marks or other intellectual property may have a material adverse effect on us. We also depend upon technology licensed from third parties for chat, homepage, search and related web services. Any dispute with a licensor of the technology may result in El Sitio’s inability to continue to use that technology. Additionally, there may be patents issued or pending that are held by third parties and that cover significant parts of the technology, products, business methods or services used to conduct our business. We cannot be certain that its technology, products, business methods or services do not or will not infringe upon valid patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. If a third party alleges infringement, we may be forced to take a license, which we may not be able to obtain on commercially reasonable terms. We may also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims, regardless of the merit of those claims. 4 Table of Contents Changes in governmental regulation could reduce our revenues, increase our operating expenses and expose us to significant liabilities. Our businesses are regulated by governmental authorities in the countries in which we operate. Regulation relates to, among other things, licensing, access to satellite transponders, commercial advertising, foreign investment and standards of decency/obscenity. Changes in the regulation of our operations or changes in interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulators, could adversely affect us by reducing our revenues, increasing our operating expenses and exposing us to significant liabilities for noncompliance with such modified or reinterpreted regulations. While we are not able to reliably predict particular regulatory developments that could affect us adversely, those regulations related to adult content and the Internet, illustrate some of the potential difficulties we face. • Adult content. Regulation of adult content could prevent us from making our content available in various jurisdictions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Regulation aimed at limiting minors’ access to adult content could also increase our cost of operations and introduce technological challenges, such as by requiring development and implementation of age verification systems. • Internet. Various governmental agencies are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals that may lead to laws or regulations concerning various aspects of the Internet, including online content, intellectual property rights, user privacy, taxation, access charges, liability for third-party activities and jurisdiction. Regulation of the Internet could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations by reducing the overall use of the Internet, reducing the demand for our services or increasing our cost of doing business. El Sitio, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, is a defendant in several civil securities cases arising out of its initial public offering, which could result in significant litigation expense and, if not decided in its favor, damage payments to the plaintiffs. El Sitio and some of its former and current directors and principal executive officers have been named as defendants in several civil cases arising out of its initial public offering in December 1999. The complaints primarily relate to alleged share allocation and commission practices undertaken by the underwriters for the offering. We believe, after consultation with counsel, that the allegations relating to El Sitio and its directors and principal executive officers are without merit. However, these cases could result in significant litigation expense for us and, if not decided in El Sitio’s favor or successfully settled, damage payments which would among other things adversely affect our financial performance. See Item 8.A. “Financial Information-Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information-Legal Proceedings” for more information. We intend to take the Company private. Failure to complete such transaction will result in the continuation of the incurrence of substantial accounting and legal costs in order to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as codified by Item 308 of Regulation S-K, and we may experience a loss of investor confidence, and a decrease in the market price of our Class A common shares, if we are unable to so comply. If the Company continues to be a public reporting company, commencing with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we will be required to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of Item 308 of Regulation S-K. As part of these new rules, we will be required to include in our annual report on Form 20-F, a report containing management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, commencing with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We expect to incur substantial legal and accounting costs in order to initially comply and continue to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of Item 308 of Regulation S-K. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, or otherwise fail to comply with the requirements of Item 308 of Regulation S-K, we could experience a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decrease in the market price for our Class A common shares and harm our business. 5 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO LATIN AMERICA Because our pay television business market is concentrated in Latin America, our financial performance is especially sensitive to risks associated with political, regulatory and economic conditions in the region. Changes in Latin American countries government policy affecting trade, investment, taxes, protection of intellectual property or the media industry generally or instability in the currency, economy or government could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks of investing in a company with operations in Argentina, as well as other countries in Latin America, include: • the risk of expropriation, nationalization, war, revolutions, border disputes, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs; • exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations; • taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims; • laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; and • the possibilities of being subjected to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes and the inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CLASS A COMMON SHARES Our Class A common shares are not listed on any national exchange. Therefore, it may be more difficult for investors to trade in our Class A common shares. Our Class A common shares are currently traded on the pink sheets. Compared to the NASDAQ SmallCap Market or the OTC Bulletin Board, an investor may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Also, since we are no longer traded on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market, if the average trading price of our Class A common shares is below U.S.$5.00 per share, trading in our Class A common shares is subject to certain other rules of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with certain trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock”. “Penny stock” is defined as any non-Nasdaq equity security that has a market price of less than U.S.$5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Such rules require the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market before entering into penny stock transactions. The rules also impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in the securities. This could severely limit the market liquidity of the securities and the ability to sell the securities in the secondary market. Our shareholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are a British Virgin Islands international business company. Our governance matters are principally determined by our memorandum and articles of association and the Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of directors, officers and controlling shareholders under British Virgin Islands law have not been extensively developed, particularly when compared with statutes and judicial precedents of most states and other jurisdictions in the United States. As a result, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the case of actions by our directors, officers or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a state or other jurisdiction in the United States. 6 Table of Contents You may experience difficulty in enforcing civil liabilities against us. We are a British Virgin Islands business company with a substantial portion of our assets located outside of the United States. In addition, many of our directors and executive officers, as well as other of our controlling persons, reside or are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce judgments obtained against us or these persons in U.S. courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. We have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman, our British Virgin Islands counsel, that there is doubt as to the enforceability in the British Virgin Islands in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated upon the U.S. federal or state securities laws. There is also doubt as to enforceability of judgments of this nature in several of the jurisdictions in which we operate and our assets are located. We are a foreign private issuer and you will receive less information about us than you would from a domestic U.S. corporation. As a “foreign private issuer”, we are exempt from rules under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements in connection with proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders also are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with respect to their purchases and sales of our shares. In addition, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. As a result, you may not be able to obtain some information relating to us as you would for a domestic U.S. corporation. 