Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses. We have a history of losses. We incurred net losses of approximately $20.5 million, $53.2 million and $57.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Our results of operations in the future will depend on many factors, but largely on our ability to execute our exploration and development program and successfully market our current and future production. Our failure to achieve profitability in the future could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital and, accordingly, our ability to continue our exploration and development program and grow our business. Significant capital expenditures are required to execute our development program. Our development and production activities, including our exploration and production contracts with the government of Kazakhstan, require us to make substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditure requirements through a combination of cash flows from operations, borrowings under bank credit facilities, private placements of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities and borrowings from our affiliates. Our cash flows from operations are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from our wells, the price of oil, and our success in developing and producing our reserves. If our revenues do not increase sufficiently as a result of any of these variables, or our access to capital becomes limited, we may not be able to meet our capital expenditure requirements, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could fail to remain a going concern. At December 31, 2007, we had a net working capital deficit of approximately $50.8 million and a stockholders’ deficit of approximately $14.8 million, and as described above, we have incurred operating losses 3 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements since our inception. These matters raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph highlighting this concern in its report dated March 28, 2008. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If we became unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets and we might receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements. Any shortfall in the proceeds from the liquidation of our assets would directly reduce the amounts, if any, that holders of our common stock would receive in liquidation. To date, we have funded our development operations and working capital requirements through a combination of debt and equity proceeds and cash flow from operations. The inclusion of a going concern modification in the report of our independent registered public accounting firm may materially and adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise new capital. Our exploration and development activities may not result in economic quantities of oil and gas. Our success is dependent on finding, developing and producing economic quantities of oil and gas. Our drilling operations may not be successful in finding, developing and producing economic quantities of oil and gas. In addition, we may not be able to sustain production from wells that initially produce. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or gas is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. In addition, technological difficulties encountered in well completion or following the establishment of production may result in reduced or ceased production from a well. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or subject to higher costs as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • high pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, such as winter snowstorms; and • increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment and qualified personnel. Oil and gas operations are hazardous and may expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to the operating risks normally associated with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas, including well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failure, fires, geological formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, and other environmental hazards and risks. Moreover, our drilling operations involve risks from high pressures in geological formations and from mechanical difficulties such as stuck pipe, collapsed casing and separated cable. If any of these risks occurs, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources or equipment; • pollution or other environmental damage; 4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • environmental clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • delays in our operations or curtailment of our production; and • suspension of our operations. Because in many cases insurance coverage for these risks is either not available or is not available at premium levels that are economically feasible and justify its purchase, we maintain very limited insurance coverage. As a result, the insurance coverage we maintain may not fully compensate us, or compensate us at all, if we incur losses as a result of these risks. Moreover, in the future we may not be able to maintain all or even part of our current insurance coverage at premium levels that justify its purchase. In addition, as an owner and operator of oil and gas properties, we are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may impose liability on us for the cost of environmental cleanup resulting from our operations and could further subject us to liability for environmental damages. The actual quantities of, and future net revenues from, our proved reserves may prove to be lower than we have estimated. The information included herein contains estimates of our proved reserves and the estimated future net revenues from our proved reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex. The process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. We engage Ryder Scott Company, independent petroleum engineers, to prepare our estimates of our proved reserves. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, their review covered 100% of the proved reserve value. Estimates of our proved reserves are made using available geological and reservoir data, as well as production performance data. These estimates are reviewed annually and revised, either upward or downward, as warranted by additional performance data. As of December 31, 2007, there were downward revisions to previous estimates due to drilling results in 2007. There was no new drilling on perimeter undeveloped offset locations which might have resulted in adding new undeveloped reserves to the field. Drilling in 2007 was entirely infield development wells, which included infill wells and three KT2 horizontal wells. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from these estimates. Such variations may be significant and could materially affect the estimated quantities of, and future net revenues from, our proved reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of our proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development drilling, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by operators on adjacent properties. In addition, our reserves are contained in carbonate reservoirs, and there is a larger uncertainty inherent in carbonate reservoirs as compared to sandstone reservoirs. At December 31, 2007, approximately 92% of our estimated net proved reserves (by volume) were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our estimate of proved reserves at December 31, 2007 assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop these proved reserves, including an estimated $29 million of capital expenditures in 2008. You should be aware that our estimates of such costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled and our results may not be as estimated. 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements You should not assume that the present values referred to in the information incorporated by reference herein represent the current market value of our estimated reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimates of present values are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimates. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimates. There are currently no economic markets for our natural gas production and our gas reserves have been given no value in the future net cash flow data incorporated by reference herein. The timing of both the production from our properties and the expenses we incur from the development and production of our properties will affect both the timing of the actual future net cash flows from our proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our business or the oil and gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10% discount factor. If oil and gas prices decrease or our exploration efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to write down the capitalized cost of individual oil and gas properties. A writedown of the capitalized cost of individual oil and gas properties could occur when oil and gas prices are low or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved oil and gas reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or nonproductive exploratory drilling results. A writedown could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We use the successful efforts accounting method. All property acquisition costs and costs of exploratory and development wells are capitalized when incurred, pending the determination of whether proved reserves are discovered. If proved reserves are not discovered with an exploratory well, the costs of drilling the well are expensed. All geological and geophysical costs on exploratory prospects are expensed as incurred. The capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties, on a field-by-field basis, may exceed the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows of that field. If so, we record impairment charges to reduce the capitalized costs of each such field to our estimate of the field’s fair market value. Unproved properties are evaluated at the lower of cost or fair market value. These types of charges will reduce our earnings and stockholders’ equity. We assess our properties for impairment periodically, based on future estimates of proved reserves, oil and gas prices, production rates and operating, development and reclamation costs based on operating budget forecasts. Once incurred, an impairment charge cannot be reversed at a later date even if we experience increases in the price of oil or gas, or both, or increases in the amount of our estimated proved reserves. All of our operations are conducted in areas with inherent international and governmental risks. We are subject to risks inherent in international operations, including adverse governmental actions, political risks, expropriation of assets and the risk of civil unrest or war. Our oil and gas properties are located in Kazakhstan, which until 1990 was part of the Soviet Union, and in Dagestan, which is an autonomous region within the Russian Federation. Kazakhstan and Russia retain many of the laws and customs from the former Soviet Union, but have developed and are continuing to develop their own legal, regulatory and financial systems. As the political and regulatory environment changes, we may face uncertainty about the interpretation of the agreements to which we are party and, in the event of dispute, we may have limited recourse within the legal and political system. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We conduct all of our operations internationally and are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar local laws. A determination that we violated this act or a similar local law may subject us to significant fines and other penalties and damage our reputation and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct all of our operations internationally and, as a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the restrictions imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”). The FCPA generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our local partners and representatives, even though such partners and representatives are foreign companies and/or non-U.S. citizens that are not subject to the FCPA. Our policies mandate strict compliance with the FCPA and similar local laws prohibiting improper payments to government officials. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that our policies will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or our local partners and representatives that would violate the FCPA and/or a similar local law. While our management does not have any knowledge of any violation of the FCPA or a similar local law and while we are committed to conducting our business in a legal and ethical manner, we cannot assure you that a yet-undiscovered violation of the FCPA or a similar local law has not occurred previously or that a violation of the FCPA or a similar local law will not occur in the future. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or a similar local law could subject us to significant fines and other penalties and damage our reputation, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and results of operations depend on our ability to transport our production to viable markets and on the price at which we can sell our production. Our future success depends on our ability to transport and market our production either within Kazakhstan or through export to other markets. Our ability to sell our production and, in turn, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected by issues which are outside our control relating to the crude oil transportation infrastructure both within and outside Kazakhstan. The exportation of oil from Kazakhstan depends on access to transportation routes, primarily pipeline systems, which can have limitations. Prior to March 2007, we exported our oil exclusively by rail. The rail terminal is accessed by truck from our field facilities. While pipeline shipments which began in March 2007 have resulted in higher realized prices for our crude oil than our previous marketing arrangements, unless we maintain access to pipelines to transfer our crude oil out of Kazakhstan, the prices at which we sell our crude oil may be significantly below world market prices. Oil prices are volatile. A decline in prices could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow. Our revenues, results of operations and future growth depend primarily upon the prices we receive for the oil we sell. Historically, the markets for oil have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in worldwide oil prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: • worldwide supplies of oil and gas; • weather conditions; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • governmental regulations and taxes; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to, and maintain, oil price and production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and • the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil price movements with any degree of certainty. Declines in oil prices would not only reduce our revenues, but could reduce the amount of oil that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, our access to capital and our ability to grow. We have substantial debt, namely our Senior Secured Notes due 2010 (the “Senior Secured Notes”) and, in turn, substantial debt service requirements, which could limit our ability to execute our development program. In addition, our ability to make payments on our Senior Secured Notes and any future indebtedness we may incur depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow. We cannot assure you that: • our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness; • future borrowings or proceeds from equity issuances will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness on or before the maturity date of such indebtedness; or • we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Factors beyond our control may affect our ability to service our indebtedness. These factors include those discussed in this “Risk Factors” section of this prospectus. If, in the future, we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from our operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance our debt, obtain additional financing, issue equity or sell assets, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and which we may be prohibited from doing under the terms of our indebtedness. Our inability to generate cash flow or obtain funding sufficient to satisfy our debt service obligations could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Covenants in the indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes and the certificates of designations governing our 15% Senior Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock and our 20% Junior Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock impose significant restrictions on us. The indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes and the certificates of designations governing our 15% Senior Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Senior Preferred Stock”) and our 20% Junior Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Junior Preferred Stock”) contain a number of covenants imposing significant restrictions on us. The restrictions these covenants place on us include restrictions on our repurchase of, and payment of dividends on, our capital stock and limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, sell assets and create liens on our assets. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and, in turn, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Competition in our industry is intense, and many of our competitors in the Kazakhstan region have greater financial and other resources than we do. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil exploration, development and production. We face intense competition from both major and other independent oil and natural gas companies and national oil companies in seeking to acquire: • desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; and • the equipment, expertise and personnel necessary to develop and operate our properties. Many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours and, moreover, some of them are fully integrated oil companies with operations in the exploration, development, production, pipeline transportation, refining and marketing sectors of the oil and gas industry. These companies may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Many of our competitors have more established positions and stronger governmental relationships as well as direct support from their own governments, which may make it more difficult for us to compete effectively with them. As a U.S. company, we are also subject to various laws and regulations to which some of our competitors may not be subject, such as the FCPA, which could adversely affect our ability to compete with such parties in the Caspian Sea region. In addition, our ability to develop and exploit our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and successfully consummate transactions, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Compliance with governmental regulations could be costly and could adversely affect our competitiveness. Our operations are subject to various levels of government controls and regulations in the United States, Kazakhstan and Russia, including environmental controls and regulations. It is not possible for us to separately calculate the costs of compliance with these controls and regulations, as such costs are an integral part of our operations. In Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Pursuant to such legislation, various governmental departments and agencies have issued extensive rules and regulations which affect the oil and gas industry, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. These laws and regulations can have a significant impact on the oil and gas industry by increasing the cost of doing business and, consequentially, can adversely affect our results of operations. Inasmuch as new legislation affecting the industry is commonplace and existing laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, we are unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such laws and regulations. In 2006, new regulations on gas flaring became effective in Kazakhstan. The regulations stipulate the payment of fines for flaring gas in excess of permitted limits, even if the operator has a gas utilization plan approved by the government. Our gas utilization project approved in 2006 was scheduled for implementation by late 2007 but, the vendor initially contracted to construct the gas handling facilities was unable to perform. As of July 1, 2007, we temporarily curtailed production in the Field pending resolution of issues relating to the flaring of associated natural gas produced from the Field and to allow for the initial commissioning of the central production facility and crude export pipeline. We resumed production on September 29, 2007 after receiving an additional gas flaring permit until November 1, 2007. Subsequently, we received government approval for our modified gas utilization program and approval for additional gas flaring volumes until 2008. This protocol allows us to flare gas within these cumulative volumes without penalty until December 31, 2008, by which time our 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements amended gas utilization program must be implemented. If we are not successful in implementing our program, we may incur substantial fines or be subject to production curtailments, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business. Our success is dependent on the performance of our senior management and key technical personnel. The loss of our chief executive officer or other key employees could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We do not carry life insurance covering any of our senior management or key employees. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over our financial reporting, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and provide timely and accurate financial statements and, in turn, investor confidence in our financial reports and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In connection with our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over our financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, we concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting due to a material weakness resulting from our lack of a sufficient number of accounting staff with experience in public company SEC reporting and technical expertise to enable us to maintain adequate controls over our financial accounting and reporting processes regarding our accounting for non-routine and non-systematic transactions. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in our annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected. This material weakness resulted in us recording certain accounting adjustments prior to the issuance of our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. However, despite the remedial measures that we implemented and our continuing efforts to improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future. Moreover, we have experienced from time to time deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that have not risen to the level of a material weakness. Although we have been able to remediate these deficiencies in the past, we cannot assure you that a material weakness will not exist in the future, as additional deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may be discovered which may rise to the level of a material weakness. Any failure to remedy additional deficiencies in our internal control over our financial reporting that may be discovered in the future or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of such controls, could adversely affect our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could, in turn, affect the future ability of our management to certify that our internal control over financial reporting is effective when it provides an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and, moreover, affect the results of our independent registered public accounting firm’s attestation report regarding our management’s assessment. Inferior internal control over financial reporting could also subject us to the scrutiny of the SEC, the AMEX (on which our common stock is listed and traded) and other regulatory bodies and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We have not previously paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes and the terms of our Senior Preferred Stock and Junior Preferred Stock restrict, and any indentures and other financing agreements that we may enter into in the future 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements may further limit, our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock. Specifically, under the indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes and the certificates of designations governing our Senior Preferred Stock and Junior Preferred Stock, we may pay cash dividends and make other distributions on or in respect of our capital stock, including our common stock, only if certain covenants are met. Furthermore, under Delaware law, dividends on capital stock may only be paid from “surplus” or, if there is no “surplus,” from the corporation’s net profits for the then current or the preceding fiscal year. Our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including our common stock, would require the availability of adequate “surplus,” which is defined as the excess, if any, of our net assets (total assets less total liabilities) over our capital. However, even if adequate surplus is available to pay dividends on our common stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay dividends on our common stock. Moreover, we have not in the past paid any dividends on the shares of our common stock and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition to the above restrictions and limitations, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is conditioned by the terms of our Senior Preferred Stock and our Junior Preferred Stock. Any future decision to pay a dividend on our common stock and the amount of any dividend paid, if permitted, will be made at the discretion of our board of directors. We have outstanding, and may issue additional shares of, preferred stock that could adversely affect holders of shares of our common stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue additional classes or series of shares of our preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders, subject to the limitations set forth in the certificates of designations governing our Senior Preferred Stock and Junior Preferred Stock. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval and subject to the terms of our Senior Preferred Stock and Junior Preferred Stock, to set the terms of any such classes or series of shares of our preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, conversion features, preferences over shares of our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue shares of our preferred stock in the future that have preference over shares of our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue shares of our preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of shares of our common stock, the rights of holders of shares of our common stock or the trading price of shares of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, as of February 28, 2008, we had outstanding 462,219 shares of our Senior Preferred Stock and 674,471 shares of our Junior Preferred Stock, which may be converted into approximately 47,791,533 shares of our common stock and, as a result, dilute the value of our common stock to our then-current common stockholders and, moreover, adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The voting power of our common stock would be diluted upon the conversion of shares of our Senior Preferred Stock or Junior Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock, and such dilution would be increased by any downward adjustment in the conversion price of our Senior Preferred Stock or Junior Preferred Stock. The trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected by such actual or potential dilution. Shares of our common stock issued upon the conversion of our Senior Preferred Stock or Junior Preferred Stock would dilute the voting power of the then-holders of shares of our common stock, and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected by such actual or potential dilution. Any downward adjustment of the conversion price of our Senior Preferred Stock or Junior Preferred Stock pursuant to the conversion price adjustment provisions set forth in the certificates of designations (as amended) governing our Senior Preferred Stock or Junior Preferred Stock would increase the number of shares of our common stock issuable upon the conversion of our Senior Preferred Stock or Junior Preferred Stock (as the case may be). Such additional number of shares of our common stock, if issued, would further dilute the voting power of the then-holders of shares of our common stock. Such additional actual or potential dilution could further adversely affect the trading price of 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements our common stock. For example, the conversion price of the Junior Preferred Stock was adjusted on November 1, 2007 from $2.25 to $1.90 per share because a change of control had not occurred, or a definitive agreement that would lead to a change of control had not been signed, as of October 31, 2007. As a result, each share of the Junior Preferred Stock was convertible into approximately 53 shares of common stock, whereas prior to such adjustment each share was convertible into approximately 44 shares of common stock. The holders of shares of our Junior Preferred Stock and Senior Preferred Stock will be entitled, upon the satisfaction of certain conditions or the failure of certain events to occur, to representation on our board of directors including if a change of control has not occurred by June 15, 2008. The trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected by such actual or potential board representation rights. Upon the receipt of written requests of holders of 66-2/3% of the then-aggregate outstanding shares of our Junior Preferred Stock and any parity stock having similar voting rights, shares of our Senior Preferred Stock and any then outstanding parity stock having similar voting rights will have the right to designate and elect at least one-half of our board of directors. In addition, if a change of control has not occurred, or an agreement has not been entered into that will result in a change of control, by June 15, 2008 (or any such agreement is later terminated without the consummation of the change of control transaction), we will be required to appoint an additional director or obtain the resignation of one director such that the number of directors to be appointed by our Junior Preferred Stock and any then-outstanding parity stock having similar voting rights would constitute a majority of the number of directors then comprising our board of directors. Moreover, if we fail to pay dividends on our Junior Preferred Stock or any then-outstanding parity stock having similar voting rights for two or more years or fail to redeem our Junior Preferred Stock at the holder’s election on March 15, 2012 or in connection with a change of control, the holders of our Junior Preferred Stock will have the right to elect two additional directors. If the dividends on the Senior Preferred Stock or any parity stock are in arrears and unpaid for two or more years, we fail to redeem the shares of our Senior Preferred Stock “put” to us for redemption pursuant to the holders’ redemption option or we fail to redeem the shares of our Senior Preferred Stock “put” to us for redemption in connection with a change of control, the holders of the Senior Preferred Stock, voting as a single class with the holders of any parity stock, will be entitled at our next regular or special meeting of stockholders to elect two additional directors to our board of directors. Such voting rights and the terms of the directors so elected will continue until such time as the dividend arrearage on the Senior Preferred Stock or any such other stock has been paid in full or we have paid the redemption price payable with respect to the shares of our Senior Preferred Stock “put” to us for redemption pursuant to the mandatory redemption provision. Such board representation rights, whether actually exercisable or exercised or merely potential, could also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price volatility. The limited trading volume of our common stock may contribute to this price volatility. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. We believe the volatility of the trading price of our common stock is due to, among other things, the results of our drilling program, current expectations of our future financial performance, prices of oil and natural gas and the volatility of the stock market in general. Moreover, our common stock, which began trading on the AMEX in March 2005, does not have substantial trading volume. During the 12 months ended February 28, 2008, the average daily trading volume of our common stock as reported by the AMEX was approximately 1.1 million shares, which represented approximately 1.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock (as of February 28, 2008). As a result, relatively small trades of our common stock may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock and, therefore, may contribute to the price volatility of our common stock. Because of the limited trading volume of our common stock and the price volatility of our common stock, you may be unable to sell your shares of our common stock when you desire or at the price you desire. Moreover, the inability to sell your shares of our common stock in a declining market because of such illiquidity or at a price you desire may substantially increase your risk of loss. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected by sales and issuances of our common stock in the public markets. As of February 28, 2008, our three largest stockholders (which include Mr. Lorrie T. Olivier, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer) beneficially owned approximately 25%, and our directors and executive officers together beneficially owned approximately 16%, of the then-outstanding shares of our common stock. Sales of our common stock by these stockholders, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock, or could impair our ability to obtain capital through future offerings of equity securities. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline as a result of issuances by us of additional shares of our common stock pursuant to our existing shelf registration statement or otherwise. The trading price of our common stock could also decline as the result of the perception that such issuances could occur. Our directors and executive officers control a significant portion of our common stock and, as a result, may be able to significantly influence matters requiring the approval of our stockholders. As of February 28, 2008, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 16% of the then-outstanding shares of our common stock, representing approximately 16% of the voting power of our common stock. As a result, our directors and executive officers, acting together, may be able to significantly influence matters requiring the approval of our stockholders. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes and provisions under Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of our company. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our board of directors is authorized to issue shares of our common or preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult to acquire our company without the approval of our board of directors as more shares would have to be acquired to gain control. In addition, upon a change of control of our company, each holder of our Senior Secured Notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of such holder’s notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such holder’s notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase. Also, Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions may deter hostile takeover attempts that could result in an acquisition of us that would have been financially beneficial to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 