ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below is a description of risk factors related to the Company’s business, provided to enable investors to assess, and be appropriately apprised of, certain risks and uncertainties the Company faces in conducting its business. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere in this Report, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are also applicable to forward-looking statements contained in this Report and in other reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. General Business, Economic and Political Conditions The Company’s earnings and financial condition are affected by general business, economic and political conditions. For example, a depressed economic environment increases the likelihood of lower employment levels and recession, which could adversely affect the Company’s earnings and financial condition. General business and economic conditions that could affect the Company include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and the strength of the national and local economies in which the Company operates. Political conditions can also affect the Company’s earnings through the introduction of new regulatory schemes and changes in tax laws. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of customers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services we offer, is highly dependent upon the business environment not only in the markets where we operate but also in the state of Iowa generally and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors: economic growth; efficient capital markets; low inflation; low unemployment; high business and investor confidence; and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity, or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. 15 Table of Contents Overall, although showing signs of improvement, the business environment in recent years was unfavorable for many households and businesses in the United States. While economic conditions in our market, the state of Iowa, and the United States have generally improved since the recession, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue or occur at a meaningful rate. Such conditions could materially and adversely affect us. Risks Associated with Investments As of December 31, 2013, the fair value of our securities portfolio was approximately $580.0 million. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of those securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates, an unfavorable change in the liquidity of an investment, rating agency downgrades of the securities, reinvestment risk, liquidity risk, defaults by the issuer or individual mortgagors with respect to the underlying securities, and instability in the credit markets. Any of the foregoing factors could cause an other than temporary impairment (OTTI) in future periods and result in realized losses. The success of any investment activity is affected by general economic conditions. Unexpected volatility or illiquidity in the markets in which the Company holds securities could reduce its liquidity and stockholders' equity. To mitigate these risks, the Company’s subsidiaries have access to lines of credit that to provide additional liquidity, if needed. The company analyzes investment securities quarterly to determine whether, in the opinion of management, any of the securities have OTTI. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities is determined to have OTTI and is credit loss related, we will recognize a charge to our earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made, and our capital ratios will be adversely impacted. Generally, a fixed income security is determined to have OTTI when it appears unlikely that the Company will receive all of the principal and interest due in accordance with the original terms of the investment. In addition to credit losses, losses are recognized for a security having an unrealized loss if the Company has the intent to sell the security or if it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before collection of the principal amount. Risks Associated with Loans A significant source of risk for the Company arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The Company has underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that management believes are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying the Company’s loan portfolio. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect results of operations. During 2013, the Company’s allowance for loan losses increased by $799,000 over 2012 figures due to an increase in general reserves levels associated with growth of the loan portfolio. During 2013, the Company’s level of impaired loans and their related specific allowance for loan losses decreased $3,893,000 and $225,000, respectively over 2012 figures. There is no assurance that the level of impaired loans and associated reserves will continue to decline and these amounts may increase during 2014, if economic conditions which impact the Company’s borrowers would deteriorate or worsen. Bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses, an increase in loans considered to be “impaired” or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on current economic conditions. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the Company’s loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of the Company’s loans. Despite the Company’s underwriting and monitoring practices, the Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Company may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Because the Company must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, the current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may be necessary. The Company may need to significantly increase the Company’s provision for losses on loans if one or more of the Company’s larger credit relationships becomes delinquent. Material additions to the Company’s allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income. The Company cannot provide any assurance that its monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that the Company’s allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. 16 Table of Contents Other Real Estate Owned “Other real estate owned” consists of real estate collateral that the Company has received in foreclosure, or accepted in lieu of foreclosure, of impaired loans. The carrying value of the Company’s holdings of other real estate owned decreased to $8,861,000 as of December 31, 2013 from $9,911,000 as of December 31, 2012, primarily due to impairment write downs and sales of other real estate owned. Management obtains independent appraisals or performs evaluations to determine that these properties are carried at the lower of the new cost basis or fair value less cost to sell. These independent appraisals or evaluations are performed periodically by management with respect to current and any future other real estate owned, and any subsequent write-downs will be recorded as a charge to operations, if necessary, to reduce the carrying value of a property to the lower of its cost or fair value less cost to sell. Due to potential changes in economic conditions, it is reasonably possible that changes in fair values will occur in the near term and that such changes could materially affect the amounts reported in the Company’s financial statements and reduce Company’s earnings. Rising Interest Rates An increase in interest rates that may occur in connection with the recovery of the economy could negatively impact the Company’s net interest margin if interest expense increases more quickly than interest income. The Company’s earning assets (primarily its loan and investment portfolio) have longer maturities than its interest bearing liabilities (primarily its deposits and other borrowings). Therefore, in a rising interest rate environment, interest expense will increase more quickly than interest income, as the interest bearing liabilities reprice more quickly than earning assets, placing downward pressure on the net interest margin. A reduction in the net interest margin could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations, including its earnings. In response to this challenge, the Banks model quarterly the changes in income that would result from various changes in interest rates. Management believes Bank earning assets have the appropriate maturity and repricing characteristics to optimize earnings and the Banks’ interest rate risk positions. Liquidity Risk Maintaining adequate liquidity is essential to the banking business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowing, sale of securities or other sources could have a substantial negative impact on the Company’s liquidity. Access to funding sources in amounts necessary to finance the Company’s activities or with terms that are acceptable to the Company could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Company’s access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of the Company’s business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets or adverse regulatory action against the Company. The Company’s ability to borrow could be impaired by factors such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations of the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the challenges facing the industry. The Company maintains liquidity primarily through customer deposits and other short-term funding sources, including advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB), Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) overnight borrowings and purchased federal funds. If economic influences change so that we do not have access to short-term credit, or our depositors withdraw a substantial amount of their funds for other uses, the Company might experience liquidity issues. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated reductions in our liquidity. In such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest income, or we may need to sell a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in the Company realizing losses. Concentration of Operations The Company’s operations are concentrated primarily in central and north central Iowa. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Company’s results may correlate to the economic conditions in this area. Any deterioration in economic conditions in central or north central Iowa, particularly in the industries on which the area depends (including agriculture which, in turn, is dependent upon weather conditions and government support programs), may adversely affect the quality of the Company’s loan portfolio and the demand for the Company’s products and services, and accordingly, its financial condition and results of operations. Competition with Larger Financial Institutions The banking and financial services business in the Company’s market area continues to be a competitive field and is becoming more competitive as a result of: · changes in regulations; · changes in technology and product delivery systems; and · the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. It may be difficult to compete effectively in the Company’s market, and results of operations could be adversely affected by the nature or pace of change in competition. The Company competes for loans, deposits and customers with various bank and non-bank financial services providers, many of which are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services. Strategic planning efforts at the Company and Banks continue to focus on capitalizing on the Banks’ strengths in local markets while working to identify opportunities for improvement to gain competitive advantages. 17 Table of Contents Trading Volume The trading volume in the Company’s common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market is relatively limited compared to those of larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the Nasdaq Global Markets, the New York Stock Exchange or other consolidated reporting systems or stock exchanges. A change in the supply or demand for the Company’s common stock may have a more significant impact on the price of the Company’s stock than for more actively traded companies. Technological Advances The financial services industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success will depend, in part, on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company to invest in technological improvements and there is a risk the Company could become less competitive if it is unable to take advantage of these improvements. Information Security The Company depends on data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. The Company cannot be certain all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safe guards which have been installed. Additionally, the Company relies on and does business with a variety of third-party service providers and vendors with respect to the Company’s business, data and communications needs. If information security is breached, or one of the Company’s service providers or vendors breaches compliance procedures, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to the Company or damages to others. If information security is breached, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be adversely affected. Government Regulations Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect the Company’s operations. The Company and its Banks are subject to extensive supervision of, and examination by, federal and state regulatory authorities which may limit the Company’s growth and the return to our shareholders by restricting certain activities, such as: · the payment of dividends to the Company’s shareholders; · the payment of dividends to the Company from the Banks; · possible mergers with or acquisitions of or by other institutions; · investment policies; · loans and interest rates on loans; · interest rates paid on deposits; · expansion of branch offices; and/or · the possibility to provide or expand securities or trust services. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States and, among many other things, establishes the new federal BCFP and requires the BCFP and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations. At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting rules and regulations will impact the Company’s and the Banks’ business. Compliance with the law and regulations has resulted in additional costs, and could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The Company cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that any changes may have on future business and earnings prospects. The cost of compliance with future regulatory requirements may adversely affect the Company’s net income. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 