D. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Relating to Our Company and the Taiwan Telecommunications Industry Extensive regulation of our industry may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions and competition, and our business may suffer. As a telecommunications service provider in Taiwan, we are subject to extensive regulation. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation” for a discussion of the regulatory environment applicable to us. Any changes in the regulatory environment applicable to us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the NCC has been focused on promulgating rules related to digital convergence. Since December 2013, the NCC continued to solicit comments from the public on eleven topics relating to the local loop, the prevention of monopolization of broadcasting media, the regulations governing political party, government and army’s investments in broadcasting industry, the identification of dominant market operators and asymmetric regulation for dominant market operators, the principle of content management, the principle of hierarchical regulation, the infrastructure of telecommunications network, the structure of amendment to regulations governing digital convergence, the spectrum auction and regulation. One possible regulatory structure proposed by the NCC would be the coexistence of the Telecommunications Act, the Cable Radio and Television Act, the Digital Convergence Act, and the merged Radio and Television Act and Satellite Broadcasting Act. It is anticipated that the NCC will present the proposal of draft legislation in turn and submit the draft Digital Convergence legislation to the Executive Yuan by the end of year 2015. The new regulations may impose more stringent measures on us as a dominant market operator and benefit our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and our results of operations. On the other hand, the Legislative Yuan is reviewing the proposed amendments to the three applicable regulations governing broadcasting industries for relaxing the current restrictions regarding investments in the broadcasting industries by the government and political parties. Pursuant to the amendments by the Executive Yuan, the government may indirectly hold shares in broadcasting companies, provided that the government’s shareholding is no more than 10% and the government does not control such companies. As the MOTC holds more than 30% of our shares and retains control over our board, such amendments will not release the current restrictions on us with respect to engaging in the broadcasting business. However, these amendments may benefit our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and results of operations. In addition, some members of the Legislative Yuan have raised a proposal that requires us to apply for a Cable Television License for our multimedia on demand, or MOD, division within one year from the date on which the amendments to the relevant laws came into effect. If the proposal is passed by the Legislative Yuan, our MOD division will be governed by the Cable Radio and Television Act. We have been designated by the government as a dominant provider of fixed communications and 2G and 3G mobile services within the meaning of applicable telecommunications regulations, and as a result, we are subject to special additional requirements imposed by the NCC. For example, the regulation governing the setting and changing of tariffs allows non-dominant telecommunications service providers greater freedom to set and change tariffs within the range set by the government. If we are unable to respond effectively to tariff changes by our competitors, our competitiveness, market position and profitability will be materially and adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents According to the Regulations for Administration on Fixed Network Telecommunications Business, the Regulations for Administration of Mobile Communications Business, the Regulations for Administration of the Third Generation Mobile Communications Business, and the Regulations for Administration of Mobile Broadband Business, we are required to submit a report to the NCC within 20 days after our shareholders approve the reduction of our capital, entering into, modification or termination of any contracts regarding leasing of all business, outsourcing of operations or joint operations, the transfer of the whole or substantial part of our business or assets; and taking over of the whole of the business or assets of any other company which would have significant impact on our operations. Any such regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The regulatory framework within which we operate may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions, competition or changes in our cost structure. In particular, future decreases in tariff rates could immediately and substantially decrease our revenues. In particular, as a Type I service provider under the Republic of China Telecommunications Act, or Telecommunications Act, we are constrained in our ability to raise prices. For example, the NCC adopted the first three-year tariff reduction plan from April 2007 to March 2010 and a second three-year tariff reduction plan from April 2010 to March 2013, resulting in a number of price reductions in the tariff structures relating to our domestic fixed communications and mobile communications services. On February 7, 2013, the NCC announced a new plan for tariff reductions in wholesale tariffs for IP peering and domestic leased line services, and in monthly fees for fixed-line broadband access services (excluding fiber-to-the-home, or FTTH, and fiber-to-the-building, or FTTB) over a period of four years starting on April 1, 2013. While mobile tariffs were not regulated in the most recent tariff reduction plan, the revised Regulations Governing Network Interconnection among Telecommunications Enterprises mandated decreases in the mobile interconnection fees over a period of four years starting on January 5, 2013. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Tariff adjustments”. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to further reduce our tariffs again in the future. Any mandatory tariff reductions could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. If we fail to comply with the regulations of the ROC Fair Trade Act, we may be investigated and fined. As a provider of telecommunication products and services, our business operations are subject to the regulations of the ROC Fair Trade Act, or the FTA, which is administered and enforced by the ROC Fair Trade Commission, or the FTC. The FTA requires, among other things, that the marketing and promotional materials of a business to be true and not misleading. The FTA also prohibits a business from participating or engaging in a cartel or other anti-competitive conduct. The FTC has the authority under the FTA to investigate and, where appropriate, impose fines and penalties on a business that violates any regulations promulgated by the FTA. The consequences of any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation” for a discussion of the FTA applicable to us. In March 2015, the FTC found us liable for providing false and misleading data in advertisement comparing our services against our competitors on our 100Mbps fiber broadband plus TV programs service in the PingTung area. The FTC consequently ordered us to pay a fine of NT$0.8 million, which we paid in March 2015. We have been investigated and penalized by the FTC in the past and may continue to be investigated or penalized by the FTC in the future if we fail to comply with the relevant regulations. As the FTA provides the FTC broad discretion to interpret anti-competition actions and enforce the relevant clauses under the FTA, we are unable to predict whether the FTC would initiate investigation on any of our daily business activities or find us liable for violating the FTA in the future. The investigations of and penalties imposed by the FTC could interrupt our provision of products or services and have a negative impact on our reputation, business operations and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain and maintain the licenses to operate our business, our business prospects and future results of operations would be adversely affected. We operate our businesses with approvals and licenses granted by the government. If these approvals or licenses are revoked or suspended or are not renewed, or if we are unable to obtain any additional licenses that 7 Table of Contents we may need to operate or expand our business in the manner we desire, then our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our prospects, will suffer. For example, our 3G mobile services license is valid until December 31, 2018. On April 30, 2014, we obtained the mobile broadband services license adhering to the principle of technological neutrality for our 4G mobile services, which is valid until the end of 2030. The NCC plans to release the 2500MHz and 2600MHz spectrum band for 4G mobile broadband services through a bidding process. Currently, the NCC is expected to accept applications for such bidding process and announce the estimated lowest ask price in June or July 2015. It is also expected that the tenders’ qualification examination will be completed by August 2015 and the bidding process will be held in September 2015. If we determine that we need to acquire this spectrum band to stay competitive, we will need to participate in the bidding process. If we are unable to successfully acquire and maintain the rights to use the licenses or frequency spectrums that we need for our future business operations, our business prospects and future results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Increasing market competition may adversely affect our growth and profitability by causing us to lose customers, charge lower tariffs or spend more on marketing. Mobile service providers in Taiwan have been offering 4G mobile services starting from May 2014. As of the date of this annual report, there are five mobile network operators in Taiwan providing 4G services, including two new mobile network operators. Each mobile network operator, including us, has been offering aggressive promotional programs to attract consumers, such as unlimited data plans, when many mobile network operators around the world have eliminated unlimited data plans. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise our revenues from 4G services in light of the intense market competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and our future results of operations. We also face increasing fixed broadband competition from cable operators. Cable operators have been using low-priced internet access packages to attract new customers in specific areas and buildings in Taiwan. They have also been upgrading their networks to DOCSIS 3.0 in order to provide higher speed internet access. DOCSIS refers to Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification, which is an international telecommunications standard that permits the addition of high-speed data transfer to an existing cable TV system. The government has mandated the 100% digitization of cable television networks by January 1, 2017, which would increase the availability of high-speed internet services from cable operators. In addition, as the mobile data access speeds have increased with newer technologies, such as 4G LTE, some customers have replaced fixed broadband services with high speed mobile broadband services. To counter these developments, we are migrating more of our ADSL customers to FTTx services and offering even higher speed fiber to the home, or FTTH access. Furthermore, the NCC relaxed the zoning restrictions on service areas for cable operators on July 27, 2012, while cable operators remain subject to the restriction that the market share of any single cable operator cannot exceed 33%. This change will allow cable operators to provide digital cable services throughout Taiwan, including high definition cable TV with more channels as well as high speed cable modem services. As of now, it is still uncertain whether we will be deemed a cable operator and subject to the 33% market share restriction. As a result, we could face increased competition for our broadband access services and MOD IPTV services. If we are unable to compete successfully with the cable operators for broadband access services and MOD businesses, our results of operations could be impacted. Many of our competitors are in alliances with leading international telecommunications service providers and have access to financial and other resources or technologies that may not be available to us. Moreover, if the government continues to liberalize the telecommunications market, such as through the issuance of new licenses or establishment of additional networks, our market position and competitiveness could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot guarantee that our measures to address competition will be effective, and therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by our competitors. Increasing competition may also cause our customer growth rate to reverse or decline, bring about further decreases in tariff rates and necessitate increases in our selling and promotional expenses. Any of these developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our ability to deliver services may be disrupted due to a systems failure, shutdown in our networks, earthquakes or other natural disasters. Taiwan is susceptible to earthquakes and typhoons. However, we do not carry insurance to cover damage caused by earthquakes, typhoons or other natural disasters or any resulting business interruption. Our services are currently carried through our fixed and mobile communications networks, as well as through our transmission networks consisting of optical fiber cable, microwave, submarine cable and satellite transmission links, which could be vulnerable to damage or interruptions in operations due to natural disasters. For example, in 2014, we recorded losses on property, plant and equipment arising from natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons in the amount of approximately NT$8.8 million (US$0.3 million). The occurrence of natural disasters could impact our ability to deliver services and have a negative effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, we might also be liable for losses claimed from our customers that were incurred from our failure to deliver our services. These potential liabilities could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to litigation or other legal proceedings that could expose us to substantial liabilities. We are from time to time involved in various litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, asserted or threatened, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert our management’s attention and resources. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Legal Proceedings”. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings, and we cannot assure you that if a judgment is rendered against us in any or all of these proceedings, our financial condition and results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected. We depend on select personnel and could be affected by the loss of their services. We depend on the continued service of our executive officers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of any of these personnel and cannot adequately replace them. In particular, we are not insured against the loss of any of our personnel. We may not be able to retain our present personnel or attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed. Moreover, we may be required to increase substantially the number of these employees in connection with any expansion, and there is intense competition for experienced personnel in the Taiwan telecommunications industry. The major three telecom operators in Taiwan, including us, are expanding the information and communication technology, or ICT, business and may increase the number of their employees as part of this expansion. In addition to telecom operators, some computer manufacturers, such as ASUSTek Computer Inc. and Quanta Computer Incorporated, are also expanding their business into this area and have been recruiting information technology related employees as well. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully attract and retain new information technology related employees. In addition, we may need to increase employee compensation levels in order to attract and retain personnel. We cannot assure you that the loss of the services of any of these personnel would not disrupt our business and operations and materially and adversely affect the quality of our services and harm our reputation. We may not realize the benefits we expect from our investments, and this may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have made significant capital investments in our network infrastructure and information technology systems to provide the services we offer. In 2014, we made capital expenditures in our domestic fixed communications of NT$16.2 billion (US$511.6 million), our mobile communications business of NT$9.6 billion (US$304.4 million), our internet business of NT$4.4 billion (US$140.0 million), our international fixed communications business of NT$1.5 billion (US$46.1 million) and our other businesses of NT$0.9 billion (US$28.2 million), respectively. In order to continue to develop our business and offer new and more sophisticated services, we intend to continue to invest in these areas as well as new technologies. The launch of new and commercially viable products and services is important to the success of our business. We expect to continue making substantial capital expenditures to further develop our range of services and products. 9 Table of Contents Commercial acceptance by consumers of the new and more sophisticated services we offer may not occur at the rate or level expected, and we may not be able to successfully adapt these services to effectively and economically meet our customers’ demand, thus impairing the expected return from our investments. We cannot assure you that services enabled by the new technologies we are implementing, such as Heterogeneous or Marco/Micro/Pico/Femto/BBU+RRH mobile technology, will be accepted by the public to the extent required to generate an acceptable rate of return. In addition, we could face the risk of unforeseen complications in the deployment of these new services and technologies, and we cannot assure you that we will not exceed our estimate of the necessary capital expenditure to offer such services. New services and technologies may not be developed and/or deployed according to expected schedules or may not achieve commercial acceptance or be cost effective. The failure of any of our services to achieve commercial acceptance could result in additional capital expenditures or a reduction in profitability to the extent that we are required under applicable accounting standards to recognize a charge for impairment of assets. Any such charge could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We recognized impairment losses for investment properties, equipment and intangible assets in the past. In 2014, we determined that parts of our telecommunication equipment were impaired and recognized an impairment loss of NT$64 thousand (US$2.0 thousand). We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to maintain control of and consolidate the results of operations of our minority-owned subsidiary. For example, we consolidate the results of operations of our subsidiary, Senao International Co., Ltd., or Senao, because we have secured four out of seven seats on the board of directors of Senao through the support of large beneficial shareholders of Senao. Please refer to note 3 and note 15 of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report for details of the relationship between Senao and its parent company. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue maintaining control over the board of directors of Senao. If we lose control of our minority-owned subsidiary, we will no longer be able to consolidate the results of operations of such subsidiary, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and ability to meet the operating results guidance that we have projected. We may also from time to time make equity investments in companies, but we cannot assure you of their profitability. We cannot assure you that losses related to our equity investments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In 2014, we evaluated and concluded that certain investments were impaired, and as a result we recognized an impairment loss of NT$23 million (US$0.7 million) for available-for-sale financial assets due to the decline in fair value owing to adverse changes in industry conditions and operating performance that were below expectations. We may be required to record additional impairment charges in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. Changes in technology may render our current technologies obsolete or require us to obtain licenses for introducing new services or make substantial capital investments, financing for which may not be available to us on favorable commercial terms or at all. The Taiwan telecommunications industry has been characterized by rapid increases in the diversity and sophistication of the technologies and services offered. As a result, we expect that we will need to constantly upgrade our telecommunications technologies and services in order to respond to competitive industry conditions and customer requirements. Developments of new technologies have rendered some less advanced technologies unpopular or obsolete. If we fail to develop, or obtain timely access to, new technologies and equipment, or if we fail to obtain the necessary licenses to provide services using these new technologies, we may lose our customers and market share and become less profitable. In addition, the cost of implementing new technologies, upgrading our networks or expanding capacity could be significant. In particular, we have made and will continue to make substantial capital expenditures in the 10 Table of Contents near future in order to effectively respond to technological changes, such as the continued expansion of our fiber optic networks and 4G mobile networks. To meet the increasingly robust high-bandwidth requirements of digital convergence services, we continue to expand construction of fiber optic networks, including passive optical networks, or PONs, and optical distribution networks, or ODNs. With respect to 4G networks, we expanded the network coverage by refarming the 900MHz frequency band from 2G to 4G in December 2014 and are deploying more 4G base stations in 1800MHz frequency band. Furthermore, in December 2014, we began implementing the carrier aggregation technology of LTE-Advanced, or LTE-A, in the 900MHz and 1800MHz frequency bands to provide higher data transmission rates. To the extent these expenditures exceed our cash resources, we will be required to seek additional debt or equity financing. Our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable commercial terms will depend on a number of factors. These factors include our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the prevailing market conditions in the domestic and international telecommunications industry, the cost of financing and conditions in the financial markets, and the issuance of relevant government and other regulatory approvals. Any inability to obtain the funding for our capital expenditures on commercially acceptable terms could jeopardize our expansion plans and materially and adversely affect our business prospects and future results of operations. If new technologies adopted by us do not perform as expected, or if we are unable to effectively deliver new services based on these technologies in a commercially viable manner, our revenue growth and profitability will decline. We are constantly evaluating new growth opportunities in the broader telecommunications industry. Some of these opportunities involve new services for which there are no proven markets, and may not develop as expected. Our ability to deploy and deliver these services will depend, in many instances, on new but unproven technologies. These new technologies may not perform as expected or generate an acceptable rate of return. In addition, we may not be able to successfully develop new technologies to effectively and economically deliver these services, or be able to compete successfully in the delivery of telecommunications services based on new technologies. Furthermore, the success of our mobile data services is substantially dependent on the availability of mobile data applications and devices that are being developed by third-party developers. These applications or devices may not be sufficiently developed to support the deployment of our mobile data services. If we are unable to deliver commercially viable services based on the new technologies that we adopt, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. As an internet service provider, we may not be able to protect our customers and their information from cyber attacks, nor protect our services from disruptions due to cyber security breaches. As an internet service provider, our system is susceptible to cyber security risks, including hijack attacks, phishing attacks, hacker’s intrusions to steal customer’s information and distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. Our online services such as e-bills and multiple payment options through the internet are also vulnerable to cyber attacks. These attacks may disrupt our services and cause leakage of our customers’ personal information, which may result in significant damage and material adverse effect to our customers and our operations. We cannot assure you that our data protection measures are sufficient to prevent any data leakage or disruption of our service due to cyber attacks. We may suffer negative consequences, such as remedial costs, increased cyber security protection costs, lost revenues, litigation and reputational damage due to cyber attacks. Our largest stockholder may take actions that conflict with our public stockholders’ best interests. As of December 31, 2014, our largest shareholder, the government of the ROC, through the MOTC, owned approximately 35.29% of our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, the government, through its control over our board, as all non-independent board members were appointed by the MOTC, may continue to have the ability to control our business, including matters relating to: • any sale of all or substantially all of our assets; • the approval of our annual operation and projects budget; 11 Table of Contents • the composition of our senior management; • the timing and distribution of dividends; • the election of a majority of our directors; and • our business activities and direction. We cannot assure you that our largest shareholder will not take actions that impair our ability to conduct our business competitively or conflict with the best interests of our public stockholders. Actual or perceived health risks related to mobile handsets and base stations could lead to decreased mobile service usage and difficulties in increasing network coverage and could expose us to potential liability. According to some published reports, the electromagnetic signals from mobile handsets and cellular base stations may pose health risks or interfere with the operation of electronic equipment. Although the findings of those reports are disputed, actual or perceived risks of using mobile communications devices or of cellular base stations could have a material adverse effect on mobile service providers, including us. For example, our customer base could be reduced, our customers may reduce their usage of our mobile services, we could encounter difficulties in obtaining sites for additional cellular base stations required to expand our network coverage or we may be requested to reduce the number of existing cellular base stations. As a result, our mobile services business may generate less revenue and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we could be exposed to potential liability for any health problems caused by mobile handsets and base stations. Investor confidence in us may be adversely impacted if we or our independent registered public accountants are unable to attest to or express an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the SEC. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring U.S. public companies to include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting has been audited by Deloitte & Touche, an independent registered public accounting firm, which has also audited our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014. Deloitte & Touche has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures—Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm”. While the management report included in this annual report concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot assure you that our management will be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in future years. If in future years we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we could suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs, and could result in lawsuits being filed against us by our stockholders or otherwise harm our reputation. If we fail to maintain a good relationship with our labor union, work stoppages or labor unrest could occur and the quality of our services as well as our reputation could suffer. In accordance with the articles of association of Chunghwa Telecom Workers’ Union, besides the chief manager of each department, most of our employees are members of our principal labor union, the Chunghwa Telecom Workers’ Union. Since our incorporation in 1996, we have experienced disputes with our labor union on such issues as employee benefits and retirement benefits in connection with our privatization as well as the 12 Table of Contents right to protest. Despite having taken measures to improve relations, increase cooperation and ensure mutual benefit with our labor union, such as increasing channels of communications by holding periodic labor resource review meetings and guaranteeing our labor union a seat on our board of directors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain a good relationship with our labor union. Any deterioration in our relationship with our labor union could result in work stoppages, strikes or threats to take such an action, which could disrupt our business and operations, materially and adversely affect the quality of our services and harm our reputation. Any economic downturn or decline in the growth of the population in Taiwan may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We conduct most of our operations and generate most of our revenues in Taiwan. As a result, any decline in the Taiwan economy or a decline in the growth of the population in Taiwan may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Taiwan’s economy is highly dependent on the technology industry, and any downturn in the global technology industry may have a material adverse effect on Taiwan’s economy, which in turn, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services. There have also been concerns over the armed conflicts and civil unrest in the Middle East, Africa and Ukraine, which has resulted in higher volatility on oil prices and stock markets, which could have a material adverse effect on economies around the world. As our business is significantly dependent on economic growth, any uncertainty or further deterioration in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that economic conditions in Taiwan will continue to improve in the future or that our business and operations will not be materially and adversely affected by deterioration in the Taiwan economy. We face substantial political risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to domestic political events and the tense relationship between the ROC and the People’s Republic of China, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our principal executive offices and substantially all of our assets are located in Taiwan, and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in Taiwan. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common shares and the ADSs may be affected by changes in ROC governmental policies, taxation, inflation or interest rates and by social instability and diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Taiwan which are outside of our control. Taiwan has a unique international political status. Since 1949, Taiwan and the Chinese mainland have been separately governed. The People’s Republic of China, or PRC, claims that it is the sole government in China and that Taiwan is part of China. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established between the ROC and the PRC, such as the engagement of the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement, or ECFA, in 2010, relations may become strained again. In June 2013, the ROC government and the PRC government entered into the Cross-Strait Agreement on Trade in Services pursuant to the ECFA. According to this agreement, both parties agreed to certain concessions on the telecommunication industries. The Executive Yuan has submitted the Cross-Strait Agreement on Trade in Services to the Legislation Yuan of Taiwan for ratification. As of March 31, 2015, the Cross-Strait Agreement on Trade in Services has not yet been ratified by the Legislation Yuan. If the agreement is unable to be ratified by the Legislation Yuan, our business operations in the PRC and our results of operation may be adversely affected. In addition, the PRC government has refused to renounce the use of military force to gain control over Taiwan. Past developments in relations between the ROC and the PRC have on occasion depressed the market prices of the securities of companies in the ROC. Relations between the ROC and the PRC and other factors affecting military, political or economic conditions in Taiwan could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price and the liquidity of our securities. In addition, the complexities of the relationship between the ROC and PRC require companies involved in cross-strait business operations to carefully monitor their actions and manage their relationships with both ROC and PRC governments. In the past, companies in the ROC, including us, have received minor sanctions such as travel restrictions or minor monetary fines by the ROC and/or PRC governments. We cannot 13 Table of Contents assure you that we will be able to successfully manage our relationships with the ROC and PRC governments for our cross-strait business operations, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and conduct cross-strait business operations. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases may materially and adversely affect our business and operations, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases, such as avian influenza or Ebola virus, may disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business and may generally disrupt our operations. If any of our employees is suspected of having contracted any contagious disease, we may under certain circumstances be required to quarantine such employees and the affected areas of our premises. As a result, we may have to temporarily suspend part or all of our operations. Furthermore, any future outbreak may restrict the level of economic activity in affected regions, including Taiwan, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, we cannot assure you that any future outbreak of contagious diseases would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Stockholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests under the laws of the ROC than they would under the laws of the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation, the Telecommunications Act, and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in the ROC. See “—Extensive regulation of our industry may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions and competition, and our business may suffer”. The rights of stockholders and the responsibilities of management and the members of the board of directors of Taiwan companies are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States. For example, controlling or major stockholders of Taiwan companies do not owe fiduciary duties to minority stockholders. As a result, holders of our common shares and ADSs may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management or members of our board of directors than they would as public stockholders of a United States corporation. Our actual financial results may differ materially from our published guidance. Prior to 2013, we used to voluntarily publish our operating results guidance on an annual basis in accordance with ROC GAAP. Beginning in 2013, we continued to voluntarily publish our operating results guidance on an annual basis in accordance with Taiwan IFRSs. We may from time to time update our operating results guidance after evaluating the effects of any changes to the estimates and assumptions that we used to calculate our projections of our operating results. Our projections are based on a number of estimates and assumptions that are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, including the risk factors described in this annual report. In particular, our projections are forward-looking statements that are necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that one or more of the estimates on which the projections were based will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results, and such variances will likely increase over time. Our results of operations and financial condition upon the adoption of Taiwan IFRSs may differ materially from our reported results of operations and financial condition under IFRSs. Prior to January 1, 2013, we prepared our consolidated financial statements in accordance with ROC GAAP for purposes of our filings with the TWSE, with reconciliation of net income and balance sheet differences of our consolidated financial statements to U.S. GAAP for certain filings with the SEC. Starting from January 1, 2013, we have prepared our financial statements under Taiwan IFRSs. While we have adopted Taiwan IFRSs for ROC reporting purposes, we adopt IFRSs for certain filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2013 and thereafter. We no longer prepare any reconciliation of our consolidated financial statements with U.S. GAAP. For more details, see “Item 3. Key Information—A. Selected Financial Data” for the description about the adoption of Taiwan IFRSs. 14 Table of Contents Taiwan IFRSs differs from IFRSs in certain significant respects, including to the extent that any new or amended standards or interpretations applicable under IFRSs may not be timely endorsed by the FSC. Furthermore, the dividends for 2014 that are expected to be declared at our 2015 annual general stockholders’ meeting are calculated based on Taiwan IFRSs. It is difficult for us to evaluate the precise impact of the adoption of Taiwan IFRSs and IFRSs on our financial statements, because the FSC may issue new rules governing the adoption of Taiwan IFRSs and as other laws and regulations may be amended with the adoption of Taiwan IFRSs. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our ADSs and Common Shares The value of your investment may be reduced by future sales of our ADSs or common shares by us, by the government of the ROC or by other stockholders. The government may continue to sell our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of ADSs or common shares by the government or any other stockholder in the public market, or the perception that future sales may occur, could depress the prevailing market price of our ADSs and common shares. The market value of your investment may fluctuate due to the volatility of, and government intervention in, the Taiwan securities market. Our common shares are traded on the TWSE, which has a smaller market capitalization and is more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and many European countries. The market value of our ADSs may fluctuate in response to the fluctuation of the trading price of our common shares on the TWSE. The TWSE has experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices and trading volumes of listed securities, and there are currently limits on the range of daily price movements. During 2014, the TWSE Index peaked at 9,569.17 on July 15, 2014, and reached a low of 8,264.48 on February 5, 2014. On April 20, 2015, the TWSE Index closed at 9,552.85. The TWSE has experienced certain problems, including market manipulation, insider trading and payment defaults. The recurrence of these or similar problems could have a material adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the securities of Taiwan companies, including our ADSs and common shares, in both the domestic and the international markets. In response to declines and volatility in the securities markets in Taiwan, the government of the ROC formed the National Financial Stabilization Fund to support these markets through open market purchases of shares in Taiwan companies from time to time. The details of the transactions of the National Financial Stabilization Fund have not been made public. In addition, the government’s Labor Insurance Fund and other funds associated with the government have in the past purchased, and may from time to time purchase, shares of Taiwan companies listed on the TWSE or other markets. As a result of these activities, the market price of common shares of Taiwan companies may have been and may currently be higher than the prices that would otherwise prevail in the open market. Market intervention by government entities, or the perception that such activity is taking place, may take place or has ceased, may cause sudden movements in the market prices of the securities of Taiwan companies, which may affect the market price and liquidity of our common shares and ADSs. We may be sanctioned or lose our licenses for violations of limits on foreign ownership of our common shares, and these limits may materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. The laws of the ROC limit foreign ownership of our common shares. Prior to March 1, 2006, the MOTC, as the competent authority under the Telecommunications Act, had the power to prescribe the limits on foreign ownership of our common shares. After the formation of the NCC on March 1, 2006, the NCC replaced the MOTC as the competent authority under the Telecommunications Act pursuant to the National Communications Commission Organization Act, or the Organization Act. The NCC and the MOTC reached an agreement on foreign ownership of Chunghwa Telecom. An announcement issued by the MOTC on December 28, 2007 stipulated that direct holdings by foreign investors in Chunghwa Telecom cannot exceed 49% of our outstanding 15 Table of Contents share capital and the total direct and indirect holdings by foreign investors cannot exceed 55% of our outstanding share capital. As of April 20, 2015, foreign direct holdings of our outstanding share capital is at 16.76%. If we fail to comply with the applicable foreign ownership limitations, our licenses to operate some of our businesses could be revoked. Moreover, we cannot predict the manner in which the NCC will exercise its authority over us, or whether NCC will lower the foreign ownership cap at any time. If we are deemed to be in violation of our foreign ownership limitations, any consequences arising from such violation may materially and adversely affect us. Moreover, since we are unable to control ownership of our common shares or ADSs representing our common shares, and because we have no ability to stop transfers among stockholders, or force particular stockholders to sell their shares, we may be subject to monetary fine or lose our licenses through no fault of our own. In that event, our business could be disrupted, our reputation could be damaged and the market price of our ADSs and common shares could decline. These limitations may also materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain adequate financing to fund our future capital requirements or to obtain strategic partners, and alternate forms of financing may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Restrictions on the ability to deposit our common shares into our ADS program may adversely affect the liquidity and price of the ADSs. The ability to deposit shares into our ADS program is restricted by ROC law, under which no person or entity, including you and us, may deposit our common shares into our ADS program unless the Securities and Futures Bureau has not objected within a prescribed period following the filing with it of an application to do so, except for the deposit of the common shares into our ADS program and for the issuance of additional ADSs in connection with: • distribution of share dividends or free distribution of our common shares; • exercise of preemptive rights of ADS holders applicable to the common shares evidenced by our ADSs in the event of capital increases for cash; or • purchases of our common shares in the domestic market in Taiwan by the investor directly or through the depositary and delivery of such shares or delivery of our common shares held by such investors to the custodian for deposit into our ADS program, subject to the following conditions: (a) the depositary may accept deposit of those shares and issue the corresponding number of ADSs with regard to such deposits only if the total number of ADSs outstanding after the deposit does not exceed the number of ADSs previously approved by the Securities and Futures Bureau, plus any ADSs issued pursuant to the events described above; and (b) this deposit may only be made to the extent previously issued ADSs have been cancelled. As a result of the limited ability to deposit common shares into our ADS program, the prevailing market price of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange may differ from the prevailing market price of the equivalent number of our common shares on the TWSE. You will be more restricted in your ability to exercise voting rights than the holders of our common shares, which may diminish your influence over our corporate affairs and may reduce the value of your ADSs. Holders of American depositary receipts evidencing our ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares represented by these ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of our deposit agreement. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of notice of any meeting of holders of our common shares, the depositary bank will, as soon as practicable thereafter if requested by us in writing, mail to ADS holders the notice of the meeting sent by us, voting instruction forms and a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders. 16 Table of Contents Generally, ADS holders will not be able to exercise voting rights attached to the underlying securities on an individual basis. Under the deposit agreement, the voting rights attached to the underlying securities must be exercised as to all matters subject to a vote of stockholders collectively in the same manner, except in the case of an election of directors. The election of our directors is by means of cumulative voting. In the event the depositary does not receive voting instructions from ADS holders in accordance with the deposit agreement, our chairman or his or her designee will be entitled to vote the common shares represented by the ADSs in the manner he or she deems appropriate at his or her discretion, which may not be in your interest. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our stockholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer you those rights unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. If the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. Changes in exchange controls that restrict your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs may have an adverse effect on the value of your investment. Your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs depends on existing and future exchange control regulations of the ROC. Under the current laws of the ROC, an ADS holder or the depositary, without obtaining further approvals from the Central Bank of the ROC (Taiwan) or any other governmental authority or agency of the ROC, may convert NT dollars into other currencies, including U.S. dollars, in respect of: • the proceeds of the sale of common shares represented by ADSs or received as share dividends with respect to the common shares and deposited into the depositary receipt facility; and • any cash dividends or distributions received from the common shares represented by ADSs. In addition, the depositary may also convert into NT dollars incoming payments for purchases of common shares for deposit in the depositary receipt facility against the creation of additional ADSs. If you withdraw the common shares underlying your ADSs and become a holder of our common shares, you may convert into NT dollars subscription payments for rights offerings. The depositary may be required to obtain foreign exchange approval from the Central Bank of the ROC (Taiwan) on a payment-by-payment basis for conversion from NT dollars into foreign currencies of the proceeds from the sale of subscription rights of new common shares. Although it is expected that the Central Bank of the ROC (Taiwan) will grant approval as a routine matter, required approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, or at all. Under the ROC Foreign Exchange Control Law, the Executive Yuan of the ROC may, without prior notice but subject to subsequent legislative approval rendered within ten days from such imposition, impose foreign exchange controls or other restrictions in the event of, among other things, a material change in domestic or international economic conditions which might threaten the stability of the domestic economy in Taiwan. 17 Table of Contents You are required to register with the TWSE and appoint several local agents in Taiwan if you withdraw common shares from our ADS facility and become our stockholder, which may make your ownership burdensome. If you are a non-ROC person and wish to withdraw common shares represented by your ADSs from our ADS facility and hold those common shares, you are required under the current laws and regulations of the ROC to appoint an agent, also referred to as a tax guarantor, in the ROC for filing tax returns and making tax payments. A tax guarantor must meet certain qualifications set by the Ministry of Finance of the ROC and, upon appointment, becomes a guarantor of your ROC tax obligations. If you wish to repatriate profits derived from the sale of withdrawn common shares or cash dividends or interest on funds derived from the withdrawn common shares, you will be required to submit evidence of your appointment of a tax guarantor and the approval of the appointment by the ROC tax authorities. You may not be able to appoint and obtain approval for a tax guarantor in a timely manner. In addition, under the current laws of the ROC, you will be required to be registered as a foreign investor with the TWSE for making investments in the ROC securities market prior to your withdrawal and holding of common shares represented by the ADSs. You will be required to appoint a local agent in Taiwan to, among other things, open a securities trading account with a local securities brokerage firm and a bank account to remit funds, exercise stockholders’ rights and perform other functions as holders of ADSs may designate. You must also appoint a local bank to act as custodian for handling confirmation and settlement of trades, safekeeping of securities and cash proceeds and reporting and declaration of information. Without the relevant registration and appointment of the local agent and custodian and the opening of a securities trading account and bank account, you will not be able to hold, subsequently sell or otherwise transfer our common shares withdrawn from the ADS facilities on the TWSE. 