D. Risk Factors The following summarizes certain risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We are a highly-leveraged holding company and depend on our subsidiaries’ revenues and cash flows to meet our obligations, and the availability of funds from these subsidiaries may be limited by contractual or statutory restrictions. We are highly leveraged. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately U.S.$68.8 million in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness and accrued and unpaid interest, plus U.S.$13.0 million of future interest payments on our 8.75% Senior Notes due 2010 and U.S.$33.1 million in total shareholders’ equity. We conduct our operations through subsidiaries, and these subsidiaries are our primary source of cash flow. Our ability to use and distribute funds out of cash flows generated by Imagen Satelital and Radio Chile, two of our subsidiaries that generate a significant portion of our cash flows, is restricted. Our syndicated bank facility also contains covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to utilize cash and the collateralized assets of our Chilean operations. In addition, our subsidiary, Imagen Satelital S.A., had outstanding U.S.$0.3 million in principal amount of 11% Senior Notes due 2005 which matured in May 2005 but which we have not repaid. The degree to which we are leveraged has important consequences to us, including the following: • Our cash flow available for use in our business is reduced, • We are vulnerable to changes in economic conditions, and • Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes could be impaired. As a result of the DIRECTV Latin America business combination with Sky Latin America and our resulting loss of most of our subscriber base in Mexico and Brazil, as well as the renegotiation of our premium and basic channel distribution agreements with DIRECTV Latin America, we expect to experience a significant reduction in our DIRECTV revenues in 2006 compared to 2005. Our largest pay television system operator, DIRECTV Latin America accounted for approximately 20% and 15% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. On December 22, 2003, The News Corporation Ltd., which we refer to as NewsCorp, completed its acquisition of a controlling interest in Hughes Electronics Corporation (now known as DIRECTV Group, Inc., the majority owner of DIRECTV Latin America). NewsCorp owns a significant interest in Sky Latin America, a direct-to-home satellite programming provider like DIRECTV Latin America, which operates in many of the same markets as DIRECTV Latin America, including Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Mexico. In October 2004, DIRECTV Group, Inc. and NewsCorp announced a series of business combinations and reorganizations, which resulted in the migration of the majority of DIRECTV subscribers in Mexico to the Sky platform and will result in the termination of the DIRECTV platform in Brazil. Prior to such business combinations, we had distribution agreements for all our pan-regional channels with DIRECTV in Mexico and Brazil, as well as the rest of the region. As a consequence of such business combinations, we lost our subscriber base from DIRECTV Mexico and maintained only the limited distribution we had for certain of our channels with Sky Latin America in Mexico. In addition, as a result of the merger between DIRECTV and Sky in Brazil, our agreements with DIRECTV Brazil were not renewed after their expiration on December 31, 2005. We currently maintain distribution for only one channel with Sky Brazil. Our existing distribution agreements with DIRECTV Latin America for our premium channels expired in December 2004. Although the final agreements have not been executed, we have negotiated new terms for these agreements and have been operating under these terms since January 2005. These agreements provide us with a lower revenue share percentage for our premium channels 4 Table of Contents than previously received. In addition, our basic channel agreements expired on December 31, 2005. Although the final agreements have not been executed, we have negotiated new terms for these agreements and since January 2006 have been operating under the new terms which also provide us with lower per subscriber rate for our basic channels than our prior contracts. As a result of the subscriber base loss in Mexico and Brazil related to the DIRECTV business combination with Sky Latin America and the lower per subscriber rates that we will receive as part of the renegotiation of our premium and basic channel distribution agreements with DIRECTV for the rest of the region, we currently expect to experience a significant reduction in our DIRECTV revenues in 2006 compared to 2005. We depend on a limited number of pay television system operators for a significant portion of our revenues and the loss of any of our major pay television system operators or renegotiation of existing contractual terms could significantly reduce our revenues. Our five largest pay television system operators accounted for approximately 32% and 28% of our total revenues in the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. The loss of any of our major existing pay television system operators, unless replaced by other operators, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Members of the Cisneros Group and Hicks Muse control Claxson, which could inhibit or cause potential changes of control of Claxson. Members of the Cisneros Group and Hicks Muse control, in the aggregate, approximately 80% of the voting power on all matters submitted to our shareholders and control the outcome of actions requiring the approval of holders of a majority of our common shares, including a material sale or acquisition. In addition, through their ownership of our Class C and Class H common shares, these shareholders are entitled to designate seven of the twelve members of our board of directors. This control could discourage other parties from initiating potential merger, acquisition or other change of control transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, the Cisneros Group and Hicks Muse could use their ownership position to cause a transaction to occur in which either or both of these shareholders or a third party would acquire most or all of Claxson, in which event other shareholders could be deprived of the opportunity to remain shareholders of Claxson. Conflicts may arise between members of the Cisneros Group and Hicks Muse, on the one hand, and our other shareholders, on the other hand, whose interests may differ with respect to, among other things, our strategic direction, significant corporate transactions or corporate opportunities that could be pursued by us or by either or both of our controlling shareholders. Hicks Muse and members of the Cisneros Group could have interests in other businesses which conflict with ours. In addition to their interests in Claxson, members of the Cisneros Group and affiliates of Hicks Muse hold, and may in the future acquire, interests in other media businesses in Ibero America, some of which may compete, or have relationships with strategic partners that compete, with us. In particular, members of the Cisneros Group own an interest in DIRECTV Latin America and certain cable networks in Latin America and funds affiliated with Hicks Muse own interests in CableVisión and Teledigital Cable in Argentina, TV Cidade in Brazil and Intercable in Venezuela. DIRECTV Latin America, CableVisión, Teledigital Cable and Intercable are significant pay television system operators in Latin America. In addition, on October 19, 2004, an affiliate of the Cisneros Group of Companies that is a minority shareholder in DIRECTV Latin America filed a lawsuit against DIRECTV Group Inc. and others, including The News Corporation Ltd., Sky Multi-Country Partners, Innova S. de R.L. de C.V., Globo Comunicacoes e Participacoes, S.A., and Grupo Televisa, S.A., related to the business combination and reorganization of DIRECTV Latin America with NewsCorp’s affiliates. Persons serving as our directors and members of the Cisneros Group or Hicks Muse may have conflicting interests with respect to the above and other matters. These conflicts could limit our effectiveness in capitalizing on opportunities for growth. Competition in the media industry is intense and we expect it to increase significantly so that any failure by us to compete successfully would adversely affect our financial performance. We derive substantially all of our revenue from subscriber-based fees and advertising, for which we compete with various other media, including newspapers, television, other radio stations and pay television channels that offer customers information and services similar to ours. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. 5 Table of Contents We face competition on both country and regional levels. In addition, each of our businesses competes with companies that deliver content through the same platforms and with companies that operate in different media businesses. Our competitors may develop content that is better than our content or that achieves greater market acceptance. Some of our competitors may have better brand recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. We will have to devote significant resources to maintain the competitive position of our brands. Competition in our businesses and markets may limit our ability to expand our market share and increase revenues in these businesses and markets. Our businesses involve risks of liability claims for media content, which could result in significant costs. As a distributor of media content, we may face potential liability for: • defamation; • negligence; • copyright, patent or trademark infringement; and • other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against broadcasters, online services and other disseminators of media content. In addition, we could be exposed to liability in connection with material available through our Internet sites or for information collected from and about our users. Although we carry general liability insurance and errors and omissions insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of defamation, negligence and similar claims, and it may or may not apply to a particular claim or be adequate to reimburse us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to retain or obtain required licenses, permits and approvals, which could result in increased costs and limit our ability to achieve our strategic objectives and increase revenues. We must maintain licenses, permits and approvals from regulatory authorities to conduct and expand our broadcast radio businesses in Chile and Uruguay and may need to obtain additional permits and licenses. The process for obtaining or renewing these licenses, permits and approvals could be complex and unpredictable. In addition, many of our licenses may not be transferred without regulatory approval. If we are unable to maintain the licenses, permits and approvals that we currently hold or to obtain those that we need to conduct and expand our businesses at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives could be impaired. In addition, the regulatory environment in the countries in which our businesses operate is complex and subject to change, and adverse changes in that environment could also impose costs on, or limit the growth of our business. Changes in governmental regulation could reduce our revenues, increase our operating expenses and expose us to significant liabilities. Our businesses are regulated by governmental authorities in the countries in which we operate. Regulation relates to, among other things, licensing, access to satellite transponders, commercial advertising, foreign investment and standards of decency/obscenity. Changes in the regulation of our operations or changes in interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulators, could adversely affect us by reducing our revenues, increasing our operating expenses and exposing us to significant liabilities for noncompliance with such modified or reinterpreted regulations. El Sitio, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, is a defendant in several civil securities cases arising out of its initial public offering, which could result in significant litigation expense and, if not decided in its favor, damage payments to the plaintiffs. El Sitio and some of its former and current directors and principal executive officers have been named as defendants in several civil cases arising out of its initial public offering in December 1999. The complaints primarily relate to alleged share allocation and commission practices undertaken by the underwriters for the offering. We believe, after consultation with counsel, that the allegations relating to El Sitio and its directors and principal executive officers are without merit. However, these cases could result in significant litigation expense for us and, if not decided in El Sitio’s favor or successfully settled, damage payments which would among other things adversely affect our financial performance. See Item 8.A. “Financial Information-Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information-Legal Proceedings” for more information. We expect to incur substantial accounting and legal costs in order to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as codified by Item 308 of Regulation S-K, and we may 6 Table of Contents experience a loss in investor confidence, and a decrease in the market price of our Class A common shares, if we are unable to so comply. Commencing with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we will be required to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of Item 308 of Regulation S-K. As part of these new rules, we will be required to include in our annual report on Form 20-F, a report containing management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, commencing with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We expect to incur substantial legal and accounting costs in order to initially comply and continue to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of Item 308 of Regulation S-K. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, or otherwise fail to comply with the requirements of Item 308 of Regulation S-K, we could experience a loss in investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decrease in the market price for our Class A common shares and harm our business. RISKS RELATED TO LATIN AMERICA Because our pay television business is concentrated in Argentina and our broadcast radio business is concentrated in Chile, our financial performance is especially sensitive to risks associated with political, regulatory and economic conditions in these two countries. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our pay television business derived 33% of its revenues from operations in Argentina. In addition, our broadcast radio business derived 92% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 from our operations in Chile. As a result, changes in Argentine or Chilean government policy affecting trade, investment, taxes, protection of intellectual property or the media industry generally or instability in the Argentine or Chilean currency, economy or government could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Argentina, in particular, has had a history of political and economic instability and has recently experienced political upheaval and a severe economic recession. These events coincided with a serious downturn in global investor sentiment generally, marked by significant declines in international equity markets, pronounced investor risk aversion and a decrease in investor confidence throughout emerging markets. Some other risks of investing in a company with operations in Argentina, as well as other countries in Latin America, include: • the risk of expropriation, nationalization, war, revolutions, border disputes, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs; • exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations; • taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims; • laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; and • the possibilities of being subjected to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes and the inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CLASS A COMMON SHARES Our Class A common shares are not listed on any national exchange. Therefore, it may be more difficult for investors to trade in our Class A common shares. Our Class A common shares are currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Compared to the NASDAQ SmallCap Market, an investor may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Also, since we are no longer traded on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market and the average trading price of our Class A common shares remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our Class A common shares is subject to certain other rules of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with certain trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock.” “Penny stock” is defined as any non-Nasdaq equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Such rules require the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market before entering into penny stock transactions. The rules also impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than 7 Table of Contents established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in the securities. This could severely limit the market liquidity of the securities and the ability to sell the securities in the secondary market. Our shareholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are a British Virgin Islands international business company. Our governance matters are principally determined by our memorandum and articles of association and the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of directors, officers and controlling shareholders under British Virgin Islands law have not been extensively developed, particularly when compared with statutes and judicial precedents of most states and other jurisdictions in the United States. As a result, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the case of actions by our directors, officers or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a state or other jurisdiction in the United States. You may experience difficulty in enforcing civil liabilities against us. We are a British Virgin Islands international business company with a substantial portion of our assets located outside of the United States. In addition, many of our directors and executive officers, as well as other of our controlling persons, reside or are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce judgments obtained against us or these persons in U.S. courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. We have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman, our British Virgin Islands counsel, that there is doubt as to the enforceability in the British Virgin Islands in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated upon the U.S. federal or state securities laws. There is also doubt as to enforceability of judgments of this nature in several of the jurisdictions in which we operate and our assets are located. We are a foreign private issuer and you will receive less information about us than you would from a domestic U.S. corporation. As a “foreign private issuer”, we are exempt from rules under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements in connection with proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders also are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with respect to their purchases and sales of our shares. In addition, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. As a result, you may not be able to obtain some information relating to us as you would for a domestic U.S. corporation. 