ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below is a description of risk factors related to the Company’s business, provided to enable investors to assess, and be appropriately apprised of, certain risks and uncertainties the Company faces in conducting its business. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere in this Report, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are also applicable to forward-looking statements contained in this Report and in other reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. 20 Table of Contents General Business, Economic and Political Conditions. The Company’s earnings and financial condition are affected by general business, economic and political conditions. For example, a depressed economic environment increases the likelihood of lower employment levels and recession, which could adversely affect the Company’s earnings and financial condition. General business and economic conditions that could affect the Company include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and the strength of the national and local economies in which the Company operates. Political conditions can also affect the Company’s earnings throug h the introduction of new regulatory schemes and changes in tax laws. The national and global economic downturn has recently resulted in extreme levels of market volatility locally, nationally and internationally. This downturn has depressed the overall market value of financial institutions, and may limit or impede industry access to capital, or have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of banking companies in general, including the Company, with respect to, for example, the establishment of reserves should conditions deteriorate further. In this respect, while the duration and severity of the adverse economic cycle appears to be lessening at the moment, and although the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the FDIC, among others, have implemented programs in an effort to stabilize the national economy, the ultimate effectiveness of these programs remains uncertain at this time. The current economic downturn has caused many lending institutions to experience declines in the performance of their loans. The values of real estate collateral supporting mortgage loans have declined and may continue to do so, providing less security for those loans. Across the industry, bank holding companies and bank stock prices have been volatile, as has the ability of banks to raise capital and borrow. Because of the uncertainty and upheaval within the financial markets and industry, there is a potential for new federal and/or state laws and regulations regarding lending, funding and liquidity practices of banks. Any new legislation or regulations could negatively impact the Company’s operations. Individual Minimum Capital Ratios In March of 2009, the OCC imposed individual minimum capital ratios requiring First National to maintain, on an ongoing basis, Tier One Leverage Capital of 9% of Adjusted Total Assets and Total Risk Based Capital of 11% of Risk Weighted Assets. As of December 31, 2010, First National exceeded these capital ratios. Failure to maintain the individual minimum capital ratios could result in additional regulatory action against First National. Risks Associated with Loans A significant source of risk for the Company arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The Company has underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that management believes are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying the Company’s loan portfolio. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect results of operations. During 2010, the Company’s allowance for loan losses and its level of impaired loans decreased by $131,000 and $3,755,000, respectively, over 2009 figures. These amounts may increase during 2011, if economic conditions deteriorate, which would adversely impact the Company’s borrowers. 21 Table of Contents Bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses, an increase in loans considered to be “impaired” or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on current economic conditions. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the Company’s loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of the Company’s loans. Despite the Company’s underwriting and monitoring practices, the Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Company may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Because the Company must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, the current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficien t to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may be necessary. The Company may need to significantly increase the Company’s provision for losses on loans if one or more of the Company’s larger credit relationships becomes delinquent. Material additions to the Company’s allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income. The Company cannot provide any assurance that its monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that the Company’s allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. Other Real Estate Owned “Other real estate owned” consists of real estate collateral that the Company has received in foreclosure, or accepted in lieu of foreclosure, of impaired loans. The carrying value of the Company’s holdings of other real estate owned slightly increased to $10,539,000 as of December 31, 2010 from $10,480,000 as of December 31, 2009, primarily due to foreclosures, offset in part by sales of other real estate owned. Management obtains independent appraisals or performs evaluations to determine that these properties are carried at the lower of the new costs basis or fair value less cost to sell. These independent appraisals or evaluations are performed periodically by management with respect to current and any future other real estate owned, and any subsequent write-downs will be recorded as a charge to operations, if necessary, to reduce the carrying value of a property to the lower of its cost or fair value less cost to sell. Due to potential changes in economic conditions, it is reasonably possible that changes in fair values will occur in the near term and that such changes could materially affect the amounts reported in the Company’s financial statements. 22 Table of Contents Rising Interest Rates An increase in interest rates that may occur in connection with the recovery of the economy could negatively impact the Company’s net interest margin if interest expense increases more quickly than interest income. The Company’s earning assets (primarily its loan and investment portfolio) have longer maturities than its interest bearing liabilities (primarily its deposits and other borrowings). Therefore, in a rising interest rate environment, interest expense will increase more quickly than interest income, as the interest bearing liabilities reprice more quickly than earning assets. In response to this challenge, the Banks model quarterly the changes in income that would result from various changes in interest rates. Management believes Bank earning assets have the appropriate maturity and repricing characteristics to optimize earnings and the Banks’ interest rate risk positions. Liquidity Risk Maintaining adequate liquidity is essential to the banking business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowing, sale of securities or other sources could have a substantial negative impact on the Company’s liquidity. Access to funding sources in amounts necessary to finance the Company’s activities or with terms that are acceptable to the Company could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Company’s access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of the Company’s business activity as a result of a downturn in th e markets or adverse regulatory action against the Company. The Company’s ability to borrow could be impaired by factors such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations of the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil facing the industry. Customer Concern over Deposit Insurance With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers may be concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits, if they were to occur, could adversely affect the Company’s funding costs and net income. Concentration of Operations The Company’s operations are concentrated in central Iowa. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Company’s results may correlate to the economic conditions in this area, which were adversely impacted by the general decline in economic and market activity experienced during 2010, 2009 and 2008. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions, particularly in the industries on which this area depends (including agriculture which, in turn, is dependent upon weather conditions and government support programs), may adversely affect the quality of the Company’s loan portfolio and the demand for the Company’s products and services, and accordingly, its financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Competition with Larger Financial Institutions The banking and financial services business in the Company’s market area continues to be a competitive field and is becoming more competitive as a result of: ● changes in regulations; ● changes in technology and product delivery systems; and ● the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. It may be difficult to compete effectively in the Company’s market, and results of operations could be adversely affected by the nature or pace of change in competition. The Company competes for loans, deposits and customers with various bank and non-bank financial services providers, many of which are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services. Trading Volume The trading volume in the Company’s common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market is relatively limited compared to those of larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the Nasdaq Global Markets, the New York Stock Exchange or other consolidated reporting systems or stock exchanges. A change in the supply or demand for the Company’s common stock may have a more significant impact on the price of the Company’s stock than for more actively traded companies. Technological Advances The financial services industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success will depend, in part, on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company to invest in technological improvements. Information Security The Company depends on data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. The Company cannot be certain all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safe guards it has installed. Additionally, the Company relies on and does business with a variety of third-party service providers and vendors with respect to the Company’s business, data and communications needs. If information security is breached, or one of the Company’s service providers or vendors breaches compliance procedures, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to the Company or damages to others. If information security is breached, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Government Regulations Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect the Company’s operations. The Company and its Banks are subject to extensive supervision of, and examination by, federal and state regulatory authorities which may limit the Company’s growth and the return to our shareholders by restricting certain activities, such as: ● the payment of dividends to the Company’s shareholders; ● the payment of dividends to the Company from the Banks; ● possible mergers with or acquisitions of or by other institutions; ● investment policies; ● loans and interest rates on loans; ● interest rates paid on deposits; ● expansion of branch offices; and/or ● the possibility to provide or expand securities or trust services. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States and, among many other things, establishes the new federal BCFP, requires the BCFP and other federal agencies to implement over the next six to eighteen months many new and significant rules and regulations. At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting rules and regulations will impact the Company’s and the Banks’ business. Compliance with the new law and regulations may result in additional costs, which could be significant, and could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The Company cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that any changes may have on future business and earnings prospects. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect the Company’s net income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 