D. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Relating to Our Company and the Taiwan Telecommunications Industry The recent global macroeconomic events could cause disruptions to our customers and their demand for telecommunications services. Demand for our products has been, and will continue to be, adversely affected by overall macroeconomic conditions. The recent global macroeconomic events could have a negative impact on businesses around the world. For example, on August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+. In addition, the ongoing European sovereign debt crisis that started in 2009 has also had a negative impact on the credit ratings of several European countries and general market sentiment. These downgrades could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world. In general, the recent global economic crisis has caused weak consumer confidence and diminished consumer and business spending, which have had a negative impact on the general market demand for telecommunications services around the world.. As exports account for a significant portion of Taiwan’s economy, any global macroeconomic recessions could also have a significant impact on Taiwan’s economy. These recent global macroeconomic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects and cause the trading price of our common shares and ADSs to decline. 5 Table of Contents As an internet service provider, we may not be able to protect our customers and their information from cyber attacks, nor protect our services from disruptions due to cyber security breaches. Since we also provide value-added services via the internet, we may also be subject to administrative penalties due to our failure to protect public interest from harmful content on the internet. As an internet service provider, our system is susceptible to cyber security risks, including hijack attacks, phishing attacks, hacker’s intrusions to steal customer’s information and distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. Our online services such as e-bills and multiple payment options through the internet are also vulnerable to cyber attacks. These attacks may disrupt our services and cause leakage of our customers’ personal information, which may result in significant damages and material adverse effect to our customers and our operations. We cannot assure you that our data protection measures are sufficient to prevent any data leakage or disruption of our service due to cyber attacks. We may suffer negative consequences, such as remedial costs, increased cybersecurity protection costs, lost revenues, litigation and reputational damage due to cyber attacks. Furthermore, the R.O.C. legislator may, from time to time, imposes obligations on us for protecting public interest from harmful content on the internet. For example, according to the newly amended R.O.C. Children and Youth Welfare Act that became effective on November 30, 2011, we are required to take precautionary measures to protect minor children from accessing to offensive or obscene content on internet that is harmful for their physical and mental health. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to administrative fines ranging from NT$60,000 to NT$300,000. Extensive regulation of our industry may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions and competition, and our business may suffer. As a telecommunications service provider in Taiwan, we are subject to extensive regulation. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation” for a discussion of the regulatory environment applicable to us. Any changes in the regulatory environment applicable to us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, our regulator is the National Communications Commission, or the NCC, which was formed on March 1, 2006 in accordance with the National Communications Commission Organization Law, or the NCC Organization Law, which was intended to transfer regulatory authority over the Taiwan telecommunications industry from the Ministry of Transportation and Communications and the Directorate General of Telecommunications to the National Communications Commission. We have been designated by the government as a dominant provider of fixed communications and mobile services within the meaning of applicable telecommunications regulations, and as a result, we are subject to special additional requirements imposed by the National Communications Commission. For example, the regulation governing the setting and changing of tariffs allows non-dominant telecommunications service providers greater freedom to set and change tariffs within the range set by the government. If we are unable to respond effectively to tariff changes by our competitors, then our competitiveness, market position and profitability will be materially and adversely affected. According to the Fixed Network Regulations, we are still required to submit a report to the National Communications Commission within 20 days after our shareholders approves the entering into, modification or termination of any contracts regarding leasing of all business, outsourcing of operations or joint operations, the transfer of the whole or substantial part of our business or assets; taking over of the whole of the business or assets of any other company which would have significant impact on our operations. The National Communications Commission also amended the Wireless Regulations and the Third Generation Mobile Telecommunications on April 3, 2009 to impose a similar requirement requiring us to submit a report within 20 days after our shareholders approves one of the above matters or our capital reduction. We were subject to the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. prior to our privatization. Although we have been privatized, the Legislative Yuan has not yet abolished the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd., and at this time, the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. is still applicable to us. Under the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd., the Ministry of Transportation and Communications has the authority to regulate aspects of our business. Any such regulation could be burdensome or conflict with regulations of the National Communications Commission or may otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The regulatory framework within which we operate may limit 6 Table of Contents our flexibility to respond to market conditions, competition or changes in our cost structure. In particular, future decreases in tariff rates could immediately and substantially decrease our revenues. In particular, as a Type I service provider under the Republic of China Telecommunications Act, or Telecommunications Act, we are constrained in our ability to raise prices. For instance, the National Communications Commission adopted a three-year price reduction plan from April 2007 to March 2010 and a second round three-year price reduction plan from April 2010 to March 2013, resulting in a number of price reductions in the tariff structures relating to our domestic fixed communications and mobile communications services. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Tariff Adjustments”. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to further reduce our tariffs again in the future. Any mandatory tariff reductions could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, as requested by Legislative Yuan and National Communications Commission, we implemented a discounted tariff for telecommunication services from Kinmen, Matsu and Penghu Islands to Taiwan in April 1, 2011. We further applied one single tariff to all the telecommunication services for the entire country since January 2012. Due to such adjustment of tariff, telecommunication services which used to be charged as long-distance telecommunication are now charged at a lower rate. Such adjustment of our tariff may have material adverse effect on the revenues of our fixed communications business. According to a domestic news article, an official from the NCC was publicly quoted saying that he believed that the Telecommunications Act should be amended to force us to implement network separation of the last mile network infrastructure to promote competition. Network separation would force us to divest our last-mile network infrastructure, so all telecommunications providers would have equal competition and access to the last-mile network infrastructure. Although there is no definitive proposal being discussed by the NCC yet, any type of forced network separation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain and maintain the licenses to operate our business, our business prospects and future results of operations would be adversely affected. We operate our businesses with approvals and licenses granted by the government. If these approvals or licenses are revoked or suspended or are not renewed, or if we are unable to obtain any additional licenses that we may need to operate or expand our business in the manner we desire, then our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our prospects, will suffer. For example, there are currently three mobile network operators that offer 2G mobile services in Taiwan. The licenses granted by the R.O.C. government authorities for operating 2G mobile services on the 900MHz and 1800MHz spectrum can be extended to June 2017 based on operator’s request for extension, according to Executive Yuan’s announcement on November 22, 2010. We filed a request with the NCC to extend our 2G license to June 2017 on November 29, 2011, which is currently under review by the NCC. The Executive Yuan also announced that the rights to use the 2G frequency spectrum will be sold at an auction for technology neutral usage and further announced in November 2010 that the 4G license auction will be held before June 2015. However, according to a recent domestic media report, the timing for the 4G license auction could be advanced to June 2014. We cannot assure you that we will be able to extend the validity of our licenses or obtain the licenses that we need in the future. If we are unable to successfully acquire the rights to use the frequency spectrum that we need for our future business operations, our business prospects and future results of operations may be adversely affected which as a result may lead to a material impact on our business revenues. We have been investigated and fined by the R.O.C. Fair Trade Commission in the past and may continue to be investigated and fined in the future. As a provider of telecommunication products and services, our business operations are subject to the regulations of the R.O.C Fair Trade Act, or the FTA, which is administered and enforced by the R.O.C. Fair Trade Commission, or the FTC. The FTA requires, among other things, that the marketing and promotional materials of a business to be true and not misleading. The FTA also prohibits a business from participating or engaging in a cartel or other anti-competitive conduct. The FTC has the authority under the FTA to investigate and, where appropriate, impose fines and penalties on a business that violates the FTA. The consequences of violating the FTA, depending on the nature of the violation, could be severe. If the FTC holds a business accountable for making a false or misleading representation in any of its advertisements, it could order the business to stop the distribution or sale of the products or services in question and take other remedial or corrective measures, such as the imposition of monetary fines ranging from NT$50,000 to NT$25,000,000. If the FTC finds a business liable for participating in a 7 Table of Contents cartel, the FTC could order the business to cease its anti-competitive practices and impose a monetary fine of up to 10% of the gross sales of the business for the most recent fiscal year. In March 2012, the FTC found us liable for providing misleading representations on the speed of our 50Mbps fiber broadband products in certain advertisements. The FTC consequently ordered us to stop using the relevant advertisements immediately and pay a fine of NT$5 million. As the FTA provides the FTC broad discretion to interpret anti-competition actions and enforce the relevant clauses under the FTA, we are unable to predict whether the FTC would initiate investigation on any of our daily business activities or find us liable for violating the FTA in the future. The investigations of and penalties imposed by the FTC could interrupt our provision of products or services and have a negative impact on our reputation, business operations and results of operations. Increasing market competition may adversely affect our growth and profitability by causing us to lose customers, charge lower tariffs or spend more on marketing. Mobile service providers in Taiwan have been offering 3G mobile services for several years. Smart phones with mobile data packages are becoming popular in recent years. To attract more high-end data users, the other two major operators started to offer free intra-network calling packages bundled with mobile data service. We also adopted comparable promotion packages to attract and maintain our customers. We cannot assure you that the intensified market competition will not affect our growth and profitability. We also face increased broadband competition from cable operators. Cable operators have been using low-priced internet access packages to attract new customers in specific areas and buildings in Taiwan. They have also been upgrading their networks to DOCSIS 3.0 in order to provide higher speed internet access. DOCSIS refers to Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification, which is an international telecommunications standard that permits the addition of high-speed data transfer to an existing cable TV system. To counter these developments, we keep migrating more of our ADSL customers to FTTx services and to provide even higher speed FTTH access. The government has mandated the digitization of cable television networks by 2014. In addition, the draft Cable Radio and Television Act proposes to remove the zoning restrictions on service area for cable operators, while cable operators remain subject to the restriction that the market share of any single cable operator cannot exceed one third. This draft has been approved by the Executive Yuan and submitted to the Legislative Yuan. As cable operators will be allowed to provide digital cable services throughout Taiwan and be able to provide high definition cable TV with more channels as well as high speed cable modem services, we could face increased competition for our broadband access services and multimedia on demand, or MOD IPTV services. If we are unable to compete successfully with the cable operators for broadband access services and MOD businesses, our results of operations could be impacted. Many of our competitors are in alliances with leading international telecommunications service providers and have access to financial and other resources or technologies that may not be available to us. Moreover, as the government continues to liberalize the telecommunications market, such as through the issuance of new licenses or establishment of additional networks, our market position and competitiveness could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot guarantee that our measures to address competition will be effective and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by our competition. Increasing competition may also cause the rate of our customer growth to reverse or decline, bring about further decreases in tariff rates and necessitate increases in our selling and promotional expenses. Any of these developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain our service quality due to insufficient network capacity, our revenue growth, profitability and reputation may suffer. In 2011, there were complaints from the general public about our mobile data network congestion. To address the situation, we adopted measures such as offering a 20% discount of the mobile data monthly fees until the end of 2012 for customers whose monthly data usage volume was less than one gigabyte, constructing additional base stations with HSPA+ capability and increasing the number of WiFi access points to offload data usage from our mobile data network. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will be able to adequately address the mobile data network congestion. Although we will continue to enhance our network quality and capacity in the 8 Table of Contents future, data usage has been increasing as well, so we cannot assure you that we will be able to keep pace with the growth in data usage. If the quality of our service decreases due to insufficient network capacity, our business, results of operations and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may also be sanctioned by the regulatory authorities and may be forced to devote more capital expenditures to resolve these problems. If we fail to maintain a good relationship with our labor union, work stoppages or labor unrest could occur and the quality of our services as well as our reputation could suffer. In accordance with the articles of association of Chunghwa Telecom Workers Union, besides the chief manager of each department, all of our employees are members of our principal labor union, the Chunghwa Telecom Workers Union. Since our incorporation in 1996, we have experienced disputes with our labor union on such issues as employee benefits and retirement benefits in connection with our privatization as well as the right to protest. Despite having taken measures to improve relations, increase cooperation and ensure mutual benefit with our labor union, such as increasing channels of communications by holding periodic labor resource review meetings and guaranteeing a labor union seat on our board of directions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain a good relationship with our labor union. Any deterioration of our relationship with our labor union could result in work stoppages, strikes or threats to take such an action, which could disrupt our business and operations, and materially and adversely affect the quality of our services and harm our reputation. We may not realize the benefits we expect from our investments, and this may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have made significant capital investments in our network infrastructure and information technology systems to provide the services we offer. In 2011, we made capital expenditures for our domestic fixed communications of NT$16.6 billion (US$547.4 million), our mobile communications business of NT$4.3 billion (US$143.2 million), our internet business of NT$3.8 billion (US$123.7 million), our international fixed communications business of NT$1.5 billion (US$50.5 million) and our other businesses of NT$0.7 billion (US$23.1 million). In order to continue to develop our business and offer new and more sophisticated services, we intend to continue to invest in these areas as well as new technologies. The launch of new and commercially viable products and services is important to the success of our business. We expect to incur substantial capital expenditures to further develop our range of services and products. Commercial acceptance by consumers of new and more sophisticated services we offer may not occur at the rate or level expected, and we may not be able to successfully adapt these services to effectively and economically meet our customers’ demand, thus impairing our expected return from our investments. We cannot assure you that services enabled by new technologies we are implementing, such as HSPA/ HSPA+ mobile technology, will be accepted by the public to the extent required to generate an acceptable rate of return. In addition, we could face the risk of unforeseen complications in the deployment of these new services and technologies, and we cannot assure you that we will not exceed our estimate of the necessary capital expenditure to offer such services. New services and technologies may not be developed and/or deployed according to expected schedules or may not achieve commercial acceptance or be cost effective. The failure of any of our services to achieve commercial acceptance could result in additional capital expenditures or a reduction in profitability to the extent we are required under applicable accounting standards to recognize a charge for impairment of assets. Any such charge could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may also from time to time make equity investments in companies, but we cannot assure you of their profitability. We cannot assure you that losses related to our equity investments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In 2011, we recognized an other-than-temporary impairment loss of NT$148 million (US$4.9 million) for financial assets carried at cost due to adverse changes in market conditions and operating performance that was below expectations. We may be required to record additional impairment charges in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Changes in technology may render our current technologies obsolete or require us to obtain licenses for introducing new services or make substantial capital investments, financing for which may not be available to us on favorable commercial terms or at all. The Taiwan telecommunications industry has been characterized by rapid increases in the diversity and sophistication of the technologies and services offered. As a result, we expect that we will need to constantly upgrade our telecommunications technologies and services in order to respond to competitive industry conditions and customer requirements. Developments of new technologies have rendered some less advanced technologies unpopular or obsolete. If we fail to develop, or obtain timely access to, new technologies and equipment, or if we fail to obtain the necessary licenses to provide services using these new technologies, we may lose our customers and market share and become less profitable. In addition, the cost of implementing new technologies, upgrading our networks or expanding capacity could be significant. In particular, we have made and will continue to make substantial capital expenditures in the near future in order for us to effectively respond to technological changes, such as the continued expansion of our fiber optic networks and High Speed Packet Access, or HSPA, and HSPA+ mobile network. Furthermore, the 4G licenses are scheduled to be awarded before June 2015. We expect to devote additional capital expenditure to the network building for Long Term Evolution, or LTE, network. In addition, to meet the increasingly robust high-bandwidth requirements of digital convergence services, we will expand construction of fiber optic networks, including passive optical networks, or PONs and optical distribution networks, or ODNs. To the extent these expenditures exceed our cash resources, we will be required to seek additional debt or equity financing. Our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable commercial terms will depend on a number of factors. These factors include our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the prevailing market conditions in the Taiwan and international telecommunications industry, the cost of financing and conditions in the financial markets, and the issuance of relevant government and other regulatory approvals. Any inability to obtain funding for our capital expenditures on commercially acceptable terms could jeopardize our expansion plans and materially and adversely affect our business prospects and future results of operations. Our ability to deliver services may be disrupted due to a systems failure, shutdown in our networks, earthquakes or other natural disasters. Taiwan is susceptible to earthquakes and typhoons. However, we do not carry any insurance to cover damages caused by earthquakes, typhoons or other natural disasters or any resulting business interruption. Our services are currently carried through our fixed and mobile communications networks, as well as through our transmission networks consisting of optical fiber cable, microwave, submarine cable and satellite transmission links, which could be vulnerable to damage or interruptions in operations due to natural disasters. For example, in 2011, losses on property, plant and equipment arising from natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons were approximately NT$1.0 million (US$0.03 million) as recorded in non-operating expenses under R.O.C GAAP. The occurrence of any natural disasters could impact our ability to deliver services and have a negative effect on our results of operations. If new technologies adopted by us do not perform as expected, or if we are unable to effectively deliver new services based on these technologies in a commercially viable manner, our revenue growth and profitability will decline. We are always evaluating new growth opportunities in the broader telecommunications industry and are expecting to be transformed into an Information and Communications Technology, or ICT, service provider. Some of these opportunities involve new services for which there are no proven markets, and may not develop as expected. Our ability to deploy and deliver these services will depend, in many instances, on new and unproven technologies. These new technologies may not perform as expected or generate an acceptable rate of return. In addition, we may not be able to successfully develop new technologies to effectively and economically deliver these services, or be able to compete successfully in the delivery of telecommunications services based on new technologies. Furthermore, the success of our mobile data services is substantially dependent on the availability of mobile data applications and devices that are being developed by third-party developers. These applications or devices may not be sufficiently developed to support the deployment of our mobile data services. If we are unable to 10 Table of Contents deliver commercially viable services based on the new technologies that we adopt, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We depend on select personnel and could be affected by the loss of their services. We depend on the continued service of our executive officers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of any of these personnel and cannot adequately replace them. In particular, we are not insured against the loss of any of our personnel. Moreover, we may be required to increase substantially the number of these employees in connection with any expansion, and there is intense competition for experienced personnel in the Taiwan telecommunications industry. We may not be able to retain our present personnel or attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed. In addition, we may need to increase employee compensation levels in order to attract and retain personnel. We cannot assure you that the loss of the services of any of these personnel would not disrupt our business and operations and materially and adversely affect the quality of our services and harm our reputation. Our largest stockholder may take actions that conflict with our public stockholders’ best interests. As of December 31, 2011, the Republic of China government, through the Ministry of Transportation and Communications, owned approximately 35.29% of our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, the government, through its control over our board, as all non-independent board members were appointed by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications, may continue to have the ability to control our business, including matters relating to: · any sale of all or substantially all of our assets; · the approval of our annual operation and projects budget; · the composition of our senior management; · the timing and distribution of dividends; · the election of a majority of our directors and supervisors; and · our business activities and direction. We cannot assure you that our largest shareholder will not take actions that impair our ability to conduct our business competitively or conflict with the best interests of our public stockholders. Actual or perceived health risks related to mobile handsets and base stations could lead to decreased mobile service usage and difficulties in increasing network coverage and could expose us to potential liability. According to some published reports, the electromagnetic signals from mobile handsets and cellular base stations may pose health risks or interfere with the operation of electronic equipment. Although the findings of those reports are disputed, actual or perceived risks of using mobile communications devices or of cellular base stations could have a material adverse effect on mobile service providers, including us. For example, our customer base could be reduced, our customers may reduce their usage of our mobile services, we could encounter difficulties in obtaining sites for additional cellular base stations required to expand our network coverage or we may be requested to reduce the number of existing cellular base stations. As a result, our mobile services business may generate less revenues and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we could be exposed to potential liability for any health problems caused by mobile handsets and base stations. We are subject to litigation that could expose us to substantial liabilities. We are from time to time involved in litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Legal Proceedings.” 11 Table of Contents We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings, and we cannot assure you that if a judgment is rendered against us in any or all of these proceedings, our financial condition and results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected. Investor confidence in us may be adversely impacted if we or our independent registered public accountants are unable to attest to or express an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the SEC. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring U.S. public companies to include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting has been audited by Deloitte & Touche, an independent registered public accounting firm, who has also audited our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011. Deloitte & Touche has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures— Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm.” While the management report included in this annual report concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot assure you that our management will be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in future years. If in future years we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we could suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs, result in lawsuits being filed against us by our stockholders or otherwise harm our reputation. Any further economic downturn or decline in the growth of the population in Taiwan may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We conduct most of our operations and generate most of our revenues in Taiwan. As a result, any decline in the Taiwan economy or a decline in the growth of the population in Taiwan may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The current European debt crisis and related financial restructuring efforts, including in Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Ireland, are contributing to instability in global financial markets, which adversely affects consumer confidence, the cost of borrowing and economic activity. The global slowdown in technology expenditures has also from time to time adversely affected the Taiwan economy, which is highly dependent on the technology industry. As our business is significantly dependent on economic growth, any uncertainty or further deterioration in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that economic conditions in Taiwan will continue to improve in the future or that our business and operations will not be materially and adversely affected by deterioration in the Taiwan economy. We face substantial political risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to domestic political events and the tense relationship between the Republic of China and the People’s Republic of China, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our principal executive offices and substantially all of our assets are located in Taiwan, and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in Taiwan. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common shares and the ADSs may be affected by changes in Republic of China governmental policies, taxation, inflation or interest rates and by social instability and diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Taiwan which are outside of our control. Taiwan has a unique international political status. Since 1949, Taiwan and the Chinese mainland have been separately governed. The People’s Republic of China, or PRC, claims that it is the sole government in China and that Taiwan is part of China. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established between the Republic of China and the PRC, such as the engagement of Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement (ECFA) in 2010, relations may become strained again. The PRC government has refused to renounce the use of military force to gain control over Taiwan. Past developments in relations between the Republic of China and the PRC have on occasion depressed the 12 Table of Contents market prices of the securities of companies in the Republic of China. Relations between the Republic of China and the PRC and other factors affecting military, political or economic conditions in Taiwan could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price and the liquidity of our securities. In addition, the complexities of the relationship between the R.O.C. and PRC require companies involved in cross-strait business operations to carefully monitor its actions and manage its relationships with both R.O.C. and PRC governments. In the past, companies in the R.O.C., including us, have received minor sanctions such as travel restrictions or minor monetary fines by the R.O.C. and/or PRC governments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manage our relationships with the R.O.C. and PRC governments for our cross-strait business operations, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and conduct cross-strait business operations. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases may materially and adversely affect our business and operations, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian influenza, may disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business and may generally disrupt our operations. If any of our employees is suspected of having contracted any contagious disease, we may under certain circumstances be required to quarantine such employees and the affected areas of our premises. As a result, we may have to temporarily suspend part or all of our operations. Furthermore, any future outbreak may restrict the level of economic activity in affected regions, including Taiwan, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, we cannot assure you that any future outbreak of contagious diseases would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Stockholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests under the laws of the Republic of China than they would under the laws of the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation, the Telecommunications Act, and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in the Republic of China. In addition, our corporate affairs may remain governed by the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. See “—Extensive regulation of our industry may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions and competition, and our business may suffer.” The rights of stockholders and the responsibilities of management and the members of the board of directors of Taiwan companies are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States. For example, controlling or major stockholders of Taiwan companies do not owe fiduciary duties to minority stockholders. As a result, holders of our common shares and ADSs may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management or members of our board of directors than they would as public stockholders of a United States corporation. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our ADSs and Common Shares The value of your investment may be reduced by future sales of our ADSs or common shares by us, by the Republic of China government or by other stockholders. The government may continue to sell our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of ADSs or common shares by the government or any other stockholder in the public market, or the perception that future sales may occur, could depress the prevailing market price of our ADSs and common shares. The market value of your investment may fluctuate due to the volatility of, and government intervention in, the Taiwan securities market. Our common shares are traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange, which has a smaller market capitalization and is more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and many European countries. The market value of our ADSs may fluctuate in response to the fluctuation of the trading price of our common shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices and trading volumes of listed securities, and there are currently limits on the range of daily price movements. In recent years, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index reached a peak of 10,202.20 in February 2000 and subsequently fell to a low of 13 Table of Contents 3,446.26 in October 2001. During 2011, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index peaked at 9,145.35 on January 28, 2011, and reached a low of 6,633.33 on December 19, 2011. On April 13, 2012, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index closed at 7,788.27. The Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced certain problems, including market manipulation, insider trading and payment defaults. The recurrence of these or similar problems could have a material adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the securities of Taiwan companies, including our ADSs and common shares, in both the domestic and the international markets. In response to declines and volatility in the securities markets in Taiwan, the Republic of China government formed the National Financial Stabilization Fund to support these markets through open market purchases of shares in Taiwan companies from time to time. The details of the transactions of the National Financial Stabilization Fund have not been made public. In addition, the government’s Labor Insurance Fund and other funds associated with the government have in the past purchased, and may from time to time purchase, shares of Taiwan companies listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange or other markets. As a result of these activities, the market price of common shares of Taiwan companies may have been and may currently be higher than the prices that would otherwise prevail in the open market. Market intervention by government entities, or the perception that such activity is taking place, may take place or has ceased, may cause sudden movements in the market prices of the securities of Taiwan companies, which may affect the market price and liquidity of our common shares and ADSs. We may be sanctioned or lose our licenses for violations of limits on foreign ownership of our common shares, and these limits may materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. The laws of the Republic of China limit foreign ownership of our common shares. Prior to March 1, 2006, the Ministry of Transportation and Communications, as the competent authority under the Telecommunications Act, had the power to prescribe the limits on foreign ownership of our common shares. After the formation of the National Communications Commission on March 1, 2006, the National Communications Commission replaced the Ministry of Transportation and Communications as the competent authority under the Telecommunications Act pursuant to the NCC Organization Law. The National Communications Commission and the Ministry of Transportation and Communications reached an agreement on foreign ownership of Chunghwa Telecom. An announcement issued by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications on December 28, 2007 stipulated that direct holdings by foreign investors in Chunghwa Telecom cannot exceed 49% of our outstanding share capital and the total direct and indirect holdings by foreign investors cannot exceed 55% of our outstanding share capital. As of April 13, 2012, foreign direct holdings of our outstanding share capital is at 17.22%. If we fail to comply with the applicable foreign ownership limitations, our licenses to operate some of our businesses could be revoked. Moreover, we cannot predict the manner in which the National Communications Commission will exercise its authority over us, and the National Communications Commission could decline to raise, or determine to reduce, this foreign ownership limitation. If we are deemed to be in violation of our foreign ownership limitations, any consequences arising from such violation may materially and adversely affect us. Moreover, since we are unable to control ownership of our common shares or ADSs representing our common shares, and because we have no ability to stop transfers among stockholders, or force particular stockholders to sell their shares, we may be subject to monetary fine or lose our licenses through no fault of our own. In that event, our business could be disrupted, our reputation could be damaged and the market price of our ADSs and common shares could decline. These limitations may also materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain adequate financing to fund our future capital requirements or to obtain strategic partners, and alternate forms of financing may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Restrictions on the ability to deposit our common shares into our ADS program may adversely affect the liquidity and price of the ADSs. The ability to deposit shares into our ADS program is restricted by Republic of China law, under which no person or entity, including you and us, may deposit our common shares into our ADS program unless the Securities and Futures Bureau has not objected within a prescribed period following the filing with it of an application to do so, except for the deposit of the common shares into our ADS program and for the issuance of additional ADSs in connection with: 14 Table of Contents · distribution of share dividends or free distribution of our common shares; · exercise of preemptive rights of ADS holders applicable to the common shares evidenced by our ADSs in the event of capital increases for cash; or · purchases of our common shares in the domestic market in Taiwan by the investor directly or through the depositary and delivery of such shares or delivery of our common shares held by such investors to the custodian for deposit into our ADS program, subject to the following conditions: (a) the depositary may accept deposit of those shares and issue the corresponding number of ADSs with regard to such deposits only if the total number of ADSs outstanding after the deposit does not exceed the number of ADSs previously approved by the Securities and Futures Bureau, plus any ADSs issued pursuant to the events described above; and (b) this deposit may only be made to the extent previously issued ADSs have been cancelled. As a result of the limited ability to deposit common shares into our ADS program, the prevailing market price of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange may differ from the prevailing market price of the equivalent number of our common shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. You will be more restricted in your ability to exercise voting rights than the holders of our common shares, which may diminish your influence over our corporate affairs and may reduce the value of your ADSs. Holders of American depositary receipts evidencing our ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares represented by these ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of our deposit agreement. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of notice of any meeting of holders of our common shares, the depositary bank will, as soon as practicable thereafter if requested by us in writing, mail to ADS holders the notice of the meeting sent by us, voting instruction forms and a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders. ADS holders will not generally be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the deposited securities on an individual basis. Under the deposit agreement, the voting rights attaching to the deposited securities must be exercised as to all matters subject to a vote of stockholders collectively in the same manner, except in the case of an election of directors and supervisors. The election of our directors and supervisors is by means of cumulative voting. In the event the depositary does not receive voting instructions from ADS holders in accordance with the deposit agreement, our chairman or his or her designee will be entitled to vote the common shares represented by the ADSs in the manner he or she deems appropriate at his or her discretion, which may not be in your interest. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our stockholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer you those rights unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. If the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. Changes in exchange controls that restrict your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs may have an adverse effect on the value of your investment. Your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs depends on existing and future exchange control regulations of the Republic of China. Under the current laws of the Republic of China, an ADS 15 Table of Contents holder or the depositary, without obtaining further approvals from the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) or any other governmental authority or agency of the Republic of China, may convert NT dollars into other currencies, including U.S. dollars, in respect of: · the proceeds of the sale of common shares represented by ADSs or received as share dividends with respect to the common shares and deposited into the depositary receipt facility; and · any cash dividends or distributions received from the common shares represented by ADSs. In addition, the depositary may also convert into NT dollars incoming payments for purchases of common shares for deposit in the depositary receipt facility against the creation of additional ADSs. If you withdraw the common shares underlying your ADSs and become a holder of our common shares, you may convert into NT dollars subscription payments for rights offerings. The depositary may be required to obtain foreign exchange approval from the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) on a payment-by-payment basis for conversion from NT dollars into foreign currencies of the proceeds from the sale of subscription rights of new common shares. Although it is expected that the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) will grant approval as a routine matter, required approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, or at all. Under the Republic of China Foreign Exchange Control Law, the Executive Yuan of the Republic of China may, without prior notice but subject to subsequent legislative approval rendered within ten days from such imposition, impose foreign exchange controls or other restrictions in the event of, among other things, a material change in domestic or international economic conditions which might threaten the stability of the domestic economy in Taiwan. You are required to register with the Taiwan Stock Exchange and appoint several local agents in Taiwan if you withdraw common shares from our ADS facility and become our stockholder, which may make your ownership burdensome. If you are a non-Republic of China person and wish to withdraw common shares represented by your ADSs from our ADS facility and hold those common shares, you are required under the current laws and regulations of the Republic of China to appoint an agent, also referred to as a tax guarantor, in the Republic of China for filing tax returns and making tax payment. A tax guarantor must meet certain qualifications set by the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of China and, upon appointment, becomes a guarantor of your Republic of China tax obligations. If you wish to repatriate profits derived from the sale of withdrawn common shares or cash dividends or interest on funds derived from the withdrawn common shares, you will be required to submit evidence of your appointment of a tax guarantor and the approval of the appointment by the Republic of China tax authorities. You may not be able to appoint and obtain approval for a tax guarantor in a timely manner. In addition, under the current laws of the Republic of China, you will be required to be registered as a foreign investor with the Taiwan Stock Exchange for making investments in the Republic of China securities market prior to your withdrawal and holding of common shares represented by the ADSs. You will be required to appoint a local agent in Taiwan to, among other things, open a securities trading account with a local securities brokerage firm and a bank account to remit funds, exercise stockholders’ rights and perform other functions as holders of ADSs may designate. You must also appoint a local bank to act as custodian for handling confirmation and settlement of trades, safekeeping of securities and cash proceeds and reporting and declaration of information. Without the relevant registration and appointment of the local agent and custodian and the opening of a securities trading account and bank account, you will not be able to hold, subsequently sell or otherwise transfer our common shares withdrawn from the ADSs facilities on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. Our actual financial results may differ materially from our published yearly guidance. Before 2009, we voluntarily published operating results guidance for the current fiscal year prepared in accordance with R.O.C. GAAP. In 2009 and 2010, we published operating results guidance on a quarterly basis. Beginning in 2011, we reverted to publishing our operating results guidance on an annual basis again and no longer publish operating results guidance on a quarterly basis. These projections are based on a number of estimates and 16 Table of Contents assumptions and are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, including the risks factors described in this annual report. In particular, projections are forward-looking statements that are necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that one or more of the estimates on which the projections were based will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results, and such variances will likely increase over time. 