D. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Relating to Our Company and the Taiwan Telecommunications Industry The current global recession and credit crisis may cause significant disruptions to our customers and their demand for telecommunications services. Demand for our products has been, and will continue to be, adversely affected by overall macroeconomic conditions. The current global recession and credit crisis since the second half of 2008 has been having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. Taiwan and other major economies around the world, including the United States and China, have entered a period of economic contraction or significantly slower economic growth. In particular, the current global economic crisis, weak consumer confidence, diminished consumer and business spending, and asset depreciation have contributed to a significant slowdown in the market demand for 6 Table of Contents telecommunications services, which has led to a decrease in demand for our services. We cannot assure you when an economic recovery may occur, or even when an economic recovery does occur, that demand for our services will increase. The combined effects of the global recession may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, which may cause the price of our ADSs to decline significantly. We were privatized in August 2005, so we have a limited history of operations as a non-state-owned enterprise. We may not enjoy the benefits of privatization as quickly as we anticipate or at the level that we expect. Before we were privatized in August 2005, our business and operations were subject to extensive regulation under Republic of China laws, rules and regulations applicable to state-owned enterprises. As a result, we only have a limited history of operations as a non-state-owned enterprise. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving the benefits we expect from our privatization, such as increased management flexibility in implementing measures to improve our cost structure, efficient operations of our business and expansion into new businesses, in a timely manner or at all. Factors that may cause the actual benefits we may enjoy from privatization to deviate from our expectations include: • adverse developments in our relations with our labor union that affect our costs, including with respect to compensation and other benefits, and efficient management of our workforce; • increased costs with respect to our plans to incentivize employees through contributions to employee child education funds, performance-based cash bonuses and company-subsidized purchases by employees of our common shares; • changes in regulations affecting us following our privatization; and • the speed with which we are able to implement more efficient procurement and other management systems and the resulting levels of cost savings. The licenses granted by the ROC government authorities for operating 2G cellular services on the GSM 900MHz and GSM 1800MHz spectrum will expire in 2012 and 2013, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue operating our 2G cellular services in the same manner after 2013, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The licenses granted by the ROC government authorities for operating 2G cellular services on the GSM 900MHz and GSM 1800MHz spectrum will expire in 2012 and 2013, respectively. There are currently three mobile network operators that offer 2G cellular services in Taiwan. All three 2G mobile network operators in Taiwan have engaged in discussions with the National Communications Commission and Ministry of Transportation and Communications to discuss the government’s plan for 2G cellular services after 2013. Along with the other two 2G mobile network operators in Taiwan, we have expressed our desire to continue operations of 2G cellular services in Taiwan and have asked the government regulators to extend the licenses. We anticipate the government will announce its plans for 2G cellular services at the end of 2009. While we believe that the government will continue to allow operations of 2G cellular services and promulgate a framework for renewing the licenses, we cannot assure you of the ultimate outcome. If we cannot continue operate our 2G wireless services beyond 2013, our business and future results of operators may be adversely affected. Extensive regulation of our industry may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions and competition, and our business may suffer. As a telecommunications service provider in Taiwan, we are subject to extensive regulation. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation” for a discussion of the regulatory environment applicable to us. Any changes in the regulatory environment applicable to us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Prior to March 1, 2006, we were under the supervision of the Ministry of Transportation and Communications and the Directorate General of Telecommunications. On March 1, 2006, the National Communications Commission was formed in accordance with the National Communications Commission Organization Law, or Organization Law, which was intended to transfer regulatory authority over the Taiwan telecommunications industry from the Ministry of Transportation and Communications and the Directorate General of Telecommunications to the National Communications Commission. We have been designated by the government as a dominant provider of fixed line and cellular services within the meaning of applicable telecommunications regulations, and as a result, we are subject to special additional requirements imposed by the National Communications Commission. For example, the regulation governing the setting and changing of tariffs allows non-dominant telecommunications service providers greater freedom to set and change tariffs within the range set by the government. If we are unable to respond effectively to tariff changes by our competitors, then our competitiveness, market position and profitability will be materially and adversely affected. We were subject to the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. prior to our privatization. Although we have been privatized, the Legislative Yuan has not yet abolished the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd., and at this time, the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. is still applicable to us. Under the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd., the Ministry of Transportation and Communications has the authority to regulate aspects of our business. Any such regulation could be burdensome or conflict with regulations of the National Communications Commission or may otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The regulatory framework within which we operate may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions, competition or changes in our cost structure. In particular, future decreases in tariff rates could immediately and substantially decrease our revenues. In particular, as a Type I service provider under the Republic of China Telecommunications Act, or Telecommunications Act, we are constrained in our ability to raise prices. For instance, the National Communications Commission adopted a price reduction plan on December 12, 2006 that resulted in a number of price reductions in the tariff structures relating to our local telephone, cellular and ADSL services from 2007 through 2009. The National Communications Commission is currently reviewing the results of this price reduction plan and has set price control as an item on its administrative agenda for the coming year. While no details of the next price reduction plan have been released, further price reductions are expected. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Tariff Adjustments.” In addition, we operate our businesses with approvals and licenses granted by the government. If these approvals or licenses are revoked or suspended or are not renewed, or if we are unable to obtain any additional licenses that we may need to operate or expand our business in the manner we desire, then our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our prospects, will suffer. Our investment project in Global Mobile Corporation may be subject to regulatory approval by the National Communications Commission Our investment project in Global Mobile Corporation, a company that acquired a WiMAX license in 2007, was overruled by the National Communications Commission on April 1, 2008 on the grounds that it is unfair to other parties that submitted bids for licenses if we were allowed to invest in a company that acquired a license when we failed to obtain a license. On October 23, 2008, the National Communications Commission overturned its ruling on April 1, 2008 about our investment in Global Mobile Corporation, a company that acquired a WiMAX license in 2007. The new ruling states that our 2007 investment in Global Mobile Corporation has been allowed. We cannot assure you that the National Communications Commission will not implement other restrictions on our investments in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 8 Table of Contents Increasing competition resulting from the ongoing liberalization of the Taiwan telecommunications industry or from alternative means of communication may materially and adversely affect our growth and profitability by causing us to lose customers, charge lower tariffs or spend more on marketing. We have faced increasing competition from new entrants in the Taiwan telecommunications market in recent years. In particular, multiple licenses to operate fixed line, cellular, paging and other services have been issued by the Republic of China government since 1996. The National Communications Commission opened applications for VoIP (070) phone numbers in November 2005. As of the end of 2008, three Type I service providers—New Century InfoComm Tech. Co., Ltd., or Sparq, Taiwan Fixed Network and us—and two Type II service providers—Taiwan Infrastructure Technology Company and one of our subsidiaries, Chief Telecom—have obtained VoIP phone numbers. We have been granted 070 VoIP phone numbers from the National Communications Commission. However, we currently do not have any plans to commence 070 VoIP number service because the National Communications Commission has not given us the right to set the tariff for outbound calls from 070 numbers. We also face increased competition due to local loop unbundling, which is the regulatory process of allowing other telecommunications operators to use the local loops or last mile connections owned by us. The local loop or last mile connections are the physical wire connections between the telephone exchange’s central office to the customer’s premises usually owned by the incumbent telephone company. We first entered into agreements regarding local loop unbundling of voice with Sparq in March 2004 and with Taiwan Fixed Network and Asia Pacific Broadband Telecom in May 2004. We subsequently entered into an agreement for full local loop unbundling of both voice and data with Sparq in July 2005. In January 2007, the National Communications Commission requested each dominant integrated services operator, including us, to reserve 15% of its local loop for leasing to other service operators unless the then remaining available local loop of the operator not leased out is less than 15%, in which case the operator should reserve such remaining loop. In addition, the National Communications Commission had defined local loop facilities as the “bottleneck” of the telecommunications network and further amended the “Administrative Rules for Network Interconnection between Telecommunication Service Providers” in April 2007, which provides that we can only charge other local telephone service providers at cost for local loop services instead of on the basis of commercial negotiations and the rental tariff must be approved by the National Communications Commission each year. The National Communications Commission approved telecommunications operators to charge NT$140 for local loop monthly rental starting from November 1, 2007. However, our proposed monthly rental submitted in July 2008 has not been approved. Many of our competitors are in alliances with leading international telecommunications service providers and have access to financial and other resources or technologies that may not be available to us. Moreover, as the government continues to liberalize the telecommunications market, such as through the issuance of new licenses or establishment of additional networks, our market position and competitiveness could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the focus of competition among cellular service providers in Taiwan has been shifting, as companies that traditionally offered second generation, or 2G, services, such as us, began offering third generation, or 3G, services, and as new 3G service providers started to enter the market. As a result, we expect competition in 3G services to continue to intensify. We may also be subject to competition from providers of new telecommunications services as a result of technological development and the convergence of various telecommunications services. In particular, as a result of technological innovations and other factors, we have been facing competition from alternative means of communication, including voice over Internet protocol, or VoIP, high-speed cable Internet service, cable telephony, email and wireless services. Providers of these products and services include cable television companies, direct broadcast satellite companies and DSL resellers. Increasing competition may also cause the rate of our customer growth to reverse or decline, bring about further decreases in tariff rates and necessitate increases in our selling and promotional expenses. Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain a good relationship with our labor union, work stoppages or labor unrest could occur and the quality of our services as well as our reputation could suffer. In accordance with our articles of incorporation, besides the managers, deputy managers and human resource directors of our various departments and groups, all of our employees are members of our principal labor union, the Chunghwa Telecom Workers Union. Since our incorporation in 1996, we have experienced disputes with our labor union on such issues as employee benefits and retirement benefits in connection with our privatization as well as the right to protest. Despite having taken measures to improve relations, increase cooperation and ensure mutual benefit with our labor union, such as increasing channels of communications by holding periodic labor resource review meetings and guaranteeing a labor union seat on our board of directions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain a good relationship with our labor union. Any deterioration of our relationship with our labor union could result in work stoppages, strikes or threats to take such an action, which could disrupt our business and operations, and materially and adversely affect the quality of our services and harm our reputation. Changes in technology may render our current technologies obsolete or require us to obtain licenses for introducing new services or make substantial capital investments, financing for which may not be available to us on favorable commercial terms or at all. The Taiwan telecommunications industry has been characterized by rapid increases in the diversity and sophistication of the technologies and services offered. As a result, we expect that we will need to constantly upgrade our telecommunications technologies and services in order to respond to competitive industry conditions and customer requirements. Developments of new technologies have rendered some less advanced technologies unpopular or obsolete. For example, demand for our paging services declined significantly since the introduction of GSM services. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of NT$343 million relating to our paging business in 2005. If we fail to develop, or obtain timely access to, new technologies and equipment, or if we fail to obtain the necessary licenses to provide services using these new technologies, we may lose our customers and market share and become less profitable. In addition, the cost of implementing new technologies, upgrading our networks or expanding capacity could be significant. In particular, we have made and will continue to make substantial capital expenditures in the near future in order for us to effectively respond to technological changes, such as the continued expansion of our High Speed Packet Access, or HSPA, cellular mobile network. We will also need to make additional capital expenditures relating to the launch of new businesses, such as Next Generation Network, or NGN, projects to migrate our fixed line networks to NGN. To the extent these expenditures exceed our cash resources, we will be required to seek additional debt or equity financing. Our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable commercial terms will depend on a number of factors. These factors include our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the prevailing market conditions in the Taiwan and international telecommunications industry, the cost of financing and conditions in the financial markets, and the issuance of relevant government and other regulatory approvals. The failure to obtain funding for our capital expenditures on commercially acceptable terms and on a timely basis or at all, could jeopardize our expansion plans and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not realize the benefits we expect from our investments, and this may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have made significant capital investments in our network infrastructure and information technology systems to provide the services we offer. In 2008, we made capital expenditures in relation to our network infrastructure and information technology systems of NT$30.1 billion (US$0.9 billion). Of this amount, we made capital expenditures of NT$22.4 billion (US$0.7 billion) in wireline, which includes those for fixed line and Internet and data services, equipment, NT$5.2 billion (US$0.2 billion) in wireless equipment for cellular service, and NT$2.5 billion (US$0.1 billion) in other areas. In order to continue to develop our business and offer new and more sophisticated services, we intend to continue to invest in these areas as well as new technologies. The 10 Table of Contents launch of new and commercially viable products and services is important to the success of our business. We expect to incur substantial capital expenditures to further develop our range of services and products. Commercial acceptance by consumers of new and more sophisticated services we offer may not occur at the rate or level expected, and we may not be able to successfully adapt these services to effectively and economically meet our customers’ demand, thus impairing our expected return from our investments. We cannot assure you that services enabled by new technologies we are implementing, such as HSPA cellular technology, will be accepted by the public to the extent required to generate an acceptable rate of return. In addition, we could face the risk of unforeseen complications in the deployment of these new services and technologies, and we cannot assure you that our estimate of the necessary capital expenditure to offer such services will not be exceeded. New services and technologies may not be developed and/or deployed according to expected schedules or may not achieve commercial acceptance or be cost effective. The failure of any of our services to achieve commercial acceptance could result in additional capital expenditures or a reduction in profitability to the extent we are required under applicable accounting standards to recognize a charge for impairment of assets. Any such charge could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may also from time to time make equity investments in companies, but we cannot assure you of their profitability. We cannot assure you that losses related to our equity investments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In 2008, we recognized an other-than-temporary impairment loss of NT$1,139 million (US$34.8 million) for available-for-sale financial assets, NT$25 million (US$0.8 million) for financial assets carried at cost due to an adverse change in market conditions. We may be required to record additional impairment charges in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations Our ability to deliver services may be disrupted due to a systems failure, shutdown in our networks, earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our services are currently carried through our fixed line and cellular telecommunications networks, as well as through our transmission networks consisting of optical fiber cable, microwave, submarine cable and satellite transmission links. Our networks may be vulnerable to damage or interruptions in operations due to adverse weather conditions, earthquakes, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, software flaws, transmission cable cuts or similar events. For example, on December 26, 2006, a 6.9 magnitude earthquake in the southern seas of Taiwan caused significant damage to the undersea cable networks that connect Taiwan to the United States, Japan, Hong Kong, China and other countries in South East Asia. The earthquake resulted in major outages in telephone and Internet services throughout the region. It required one week to restore 90% of the capacity, and repairs were not completed until February 2, 2007, when all four affected undersea cables finally returned to normal operations. As a result of the December 2006 earthquake, we suffered repair costs of approximately NT$10 million. Taiwan is susceptible to earthquakes and typhoons. However, we do not carry any insurance to cover damages caused by earthquakes, typhoons or other natural disasters or any resulting business interruption. Any failure of our networks, servers, or any link in the delivery chain that results in an interruption in our operations or an interruption in the provision of any of our services, whether from operational disruption, natural disaster, military or terrorist activity, or otherwise, could damage our ability to attract and retain customers and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If new technologies adopted by us do not perform as expected, or if we are unable to effectively deliver new services based on these technologies in a commercially viable manner, our revenue growth and profitability will decline. We are always evaluating new growth opportunities in the broader telecommunications industry. Some of these opportunities involve new services for which there are no proven markets, and may not develop as 11 Table of Contents expected. Our ability to deploy and deliver these services will depend, in many instances, on new and unproven technologies. These new technologies may not perform as expected or generate an acceptable rate of return. In addition, we may not be able to successfully develop new technologies to effectively and economically deliver these services, or be able to compete successfully in the delivery of telecommunications services based on new technologies. Furthermore, the success of our wireless data services is substantially dependent on the availability of wireless data applications and devices that are being developed by third-party developers. These applications or devices may not be sufficiently developed to support the deployment of our wireless data services. If we are unable to deliver commercially viable services based on the new technologies that we adopt, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We depend on select personnel and could be affected by the loss of their services. We depend on the continued service of our executive officers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of any of these personnel and cannot adequately replace them. In particular, we are not insured against the loss of any of our personnel. Moreover, we may be required to increase substantially the number of these employees in connection with any expansion, and there is intense competition for experienced personnel in the Taiwan telecommunications industry. We may not be able to retain our present personnel or attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed. In addition, we may need to increase employee compensation levels in order to attract and retain personnel. We cannot assure you that the loss of the services of any of these personnel would not disrupt our business and operations and materially and adversely affect the quality of our services and harm our reputation. Our largest stockholder may take actions that conflict with our public stockholders’ best interests. As of March 31, 2009, the Republic of China government, through the Ministry of Transportation and Communications, owned approximately 35.29% of our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, the government, through its control over our board, as all non-independent board members were appointed by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications, may continue to have the ability to control our business, including matters relating to: • any sale of all or substantially all of our assets; • the approval of our annual operation and projects budget; • the composition of our senior management; • the timing and distribution of dividends; • the election of a majority of our directors and supervisors; and • our business activities and direction. In addition, pursuant to the Telecommunications Act and our articles of incorporation, our board of directors approved the issuance of two preferred shares on March 28, 2006 to the Ministry of Transportation and Communications. As the holder of these preferred shares, the Ministry of Transportation and Communications has the right to veto any change in our name or our business and any transfer of the all or a substantial portion of our business or property and to act as a director and supervisor on the basis of its preferred shareholding. Under our articles of incorporation, these preferred shares are non-transferable and will be redeemed by us three years from their date of issuance at their par value. These preferred shares expired on April 4, 2009 and were redeemed on April 6, 2009. However, according to the Fixed Network Regulations, we are still required to submit a report to the National Communications Commission within 15 days after our board of directors approves the entering into, modification or termination of any contracts regarding leasing of all business, outsourcing of operations or joint operations, the transfer of the whole or substantial part of our business or assets; taking over of the whole of the business or assets of any other company which would have significant impact on our operations. The National Communications Commission also amended the Wireless Regulations and the Third Generation Mobile Telecommunications on April 3, 2009 to impose a similar requirement requiring us to submit a report within 12 Table of Contents 20 days after our shareholders approves one of the above matters or our capital reduction. We cannot assure you that our largest shareholder will not take actions that impair our ability to conduct our business competitively or conflict with the best interests of our public stockholders. Actual or perceived health risks related to cellular phones and base stations could lead to decreased cellular telephone usage and difficulties in increasing network coverage and could expose us to potential liability. According to some published reports, the electromagnetic signals from cellular phones and cellular base stations may pose health risks or interfere with the operation of electronic equipment. Although the findings of those reports are disputed, actual or perceived risks of using cellular telecommunications devices or of base stations could have a material adverse effect on cellular service providers, including us. For example, our customer base could be reduced, our customers may reduce their usage of our cellular services, we could encounter difficulties in obtaining sites for additional cellular base stations required to expand our network coverage or we may be requested to reduce the number of existing cellular base stations. As a result, our cellular business may generate less revenues and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we could be exposed to potential liability for any health problems caused by cellular phones and base stations. We are subject to litigation that could expose us to substantial liabilities. We are from time to time involved in litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Legal Proceedings.” We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings, and we cannot assure you that if a judgment is rendered against us in any or all of these proceedings, our financial condition and results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected. Investor confidence in us may be adversely impacted if we or our independent registered public accountants are unable to attest to or express a qualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the SEC. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring U.S. public companies to include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting has been audited by Deloitte & Touche, an independent registered public accounting firm, who has also audited our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008. Deloitte & Touche has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). While the management report included in this annual report concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot assure you that our management will be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in future years. If in future years we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we could suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs, result in lawsuits being filed against us by our stockholders or otherwise harm our reputation. Our investments in real estate projects may not be profitable and will subject us to additional risks not related to our core businesses. Our properties consist primarily of land, land improvements and buildings located throughout Taiwan. In early 2008, we established Light Era Development Co., Ltd. for the purpose of developing our real estate properties to increase their value. In March and April 2008, we started the process of transferring six properties to Light Era Development Co., Ltd. Currently, three of these properties are in development. We have no prior experience operating real estate development projects and cannot assure you that our investments will achieve 13 Table of Contents their expected results. Operating or investing in real estate projects involves numerous risks for which we may not be adequately protected. Many of these risks are also beyond our control. For example, our projects may be delayed or never completed due to the failure of other parties with which we have contracted to fulfill their contractual obligations or because of unexpected problems that arise during the planning or construction phases of the projects. Any significant delay or any failure to complete our projects might result in our projects not achieving their expected return and could subject us to a loss on our investment. In addition, changes in the regulatory or economic environment relating to real estate, such as changes in interest rates affecting the financing of our projects, increases in the applicable property tax rates relating to our properties and decreases in demand for residential, commercial or resort properties, could materially and adversely affect the value of our properties and/or reduce or eliminate the profitability of our projects. If our revitalization projects do not achieve their expected results or subject us to a significant financial loss, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any further economic downturn or decline in the growth of the population in Taiwan may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We conduct most of our operations and generate most of our revenues in Taiwan. As a result, any decline in the Taiwan economy or a decline in the growth of the population in Taiwan may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In recent years, the banking and financial sectors in Taiwan have been seriously harmed by the general economic downturn in Taiwan and the rest of Asia, which has resulted in a depressed property market and an increase in the number of companies filing for corporate reorganization and bankruptcy protection. Although economic conditions in Taiwan have improved since 2003, the global slowdown in technology expenditures has also from time to time adversely affected the Taiwan economy, which is highly dependent on the technology industry. We cannot assure you that economic conditions in Taiwan will continue to improve in the future or that our business and operations will not be materially and adversely affected by deterioration in the Taiwan economy. We face substantial political risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to domestic political events and the tense relationship between the Republic of China and the People’s Republic of China, which could negatively affect the value of your investment. Our principal executive offices and substantially all of our assets are located in Taiwan, and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in Taiwan. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common shares and the ADSs may be affected by changes in Republic of China governmental policies, taxation, inflation or interest rates and by social instability and diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Taiwan which are outside of our control. Taiwan has a unique international political status. Since 1949, Taiwan and the Chinese mainland have been separately governed. The People’s Republic of China, or PRC, claims that it is the sole government in China and that Taiwan is part of China. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between the Republic of China and the PRC, relations have often been strained. The PRC government has refused to renounce the use of military force to gain control over Taiwan. Furthermore, the PRC government passed an Anti-Secession Law in March 2005, which authorizes non-peaceful means and other necessary measures should Taiwan move to gain independence from the PRC. Past developments in relations between the Republic of China and the PRC have on occasion depressed the market prices of the securities of companies in the Republic of China. Relations between the Republic of China and the PRC and other factors affecting military, political or economic conditions in Taiwan could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price and the liquidity of our securities. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases may materially and adversely affect our business and operations, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian influenza, may disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business and may generally disrupt our operations. If any of our 14 Table of Contents employees is suspected of having contracted any contagious disease, we may under certain circumstances be required to quarantine such employees and the affected areas of our premises. As a result, we may have to temporarily suspend part or all of our operations. Furthermore, any future outbreak may restrict the level of economic activity in affected regions, including Taiwan, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, we cannot assure you that any future outbreak of contagious diseases would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Stockholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests under the laws of the Republic of China than they would under the laws of the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation, the Telecommunications Act, and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in the Republic of China. In addition, our corporate affairs may remain governed by the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. See “—Extensive regulation of our industry may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions and competition, and our business may suffer.” The rights of stockholders and the responsibilities of management and the members of the board of directors of Taiwan companies are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States. For example, controlling or major stockholders of Taiwan companies do not owe fiduciary duties to minority stockholders. As a result, holders of our common shares and ADSs may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management or members of our board of directors than they would as public stockholders of a United States corporation. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our ADSs and Common Shares The value of your investment may be reduced by future sales of our ADSs or common shares by us, by the Republic of China government or by other stockholders. The government may continue to sell our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of ADSs or common shares by the government or any other stockholder in the public market, or the perception that future sales may occur, could depress the prevailing market price of our ADSs and common shares. The market value of your investment may fluctuate due to the volatility of, and government intervention in, the Taiwan securities market. Our common shares are traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange, which has a smaller market capitalization and is more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and many European countries. The market value of our ADSs may fluctuate in response to the fluctuation of the trading price of our common shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices and trading volumes of listed securities, and there are currently limits on the range of daily price movements. In recent years, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index reached a peak of 10,202.20 in February 2000 and subsequently fell to a low of 3,446.26 in October 2001. During 2008, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index peaked at 9,295.2 on May 19, 2008, and reached a low of 4,089.93 on November 20, 2008. On April 21, 2009, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index closed at 5,881.41. The Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced certain problems, including market manipulation, insider trading and payment defaults. The recurrence of these or similar problems could have a material adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the securities of Taiwan companies, including our ADSs and common shares, in both the domestic and the international markets. In response to declines and volatility in the securities markets in Taiwan, the Republic of China government formed the National Financial Stabilization Fund to support these markets through open market purchases of shares in Taiwan companies from time to time. The details of the transactions of the National Financial Stabilization Fund have not been made public. In addition, the government’s Labor Insurance Fund and other funds associated with the government have in the past purchased, and may from time to time purchase, shares of Taiwan companies listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange or other markets. As a result of these activities, the market price of common shares of Taiwan companies may have been and may currently be higher than the prices that would otherwise prevail in the open market. Market intervention by government entities, or the perception 15 Table of Contents that such activity is taking place, may take place or has ceased, may cause sudden movements in the market prices of the securities of Taiwan companies, which may affect the market price and liquidity of our common shares and ADSs. We may be sanctioned or lose our licenses for violations of limits on foreign ownership of our common shares, and these limits may materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. The laws of the Republic of China limit foreign ownership of our common shares. Prior to March 1, 2006, the Ministry of Transportation and Communications, as the competent authority under the Telecommunications Act, had the power to prescribe the limits on foreign ownership of our common shares. After the formation of the National Communications Commission on March 1, 2006, the National Communications Commission replaced the Ministry of Transportation and Communications as the competent authority under the Telecommunications Act pursuant to the Organization Law. The National Communications Commission and the Ministry of Transportation and Communications reached an agreement on foreign ownership of Chunghwa Telecom. An announcement issued by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications on December 28, 2007 stipulated that direct holdings by foreign investors in Chunghwa Telecom cannot exceed 49% of our outstanding share capital and the total direct and indirect holdings by foreign investors cannot exceed 55% of our outstanding share capital. As of April 21, 2009, foreign direct holdings of our outstanding share capital is at 37.38%. If we fail to comply with the applicable foreign ownership limitations, our licenses to operate some of our businesses could be revoked. Moreover, we cannot predict the manner in which the National Communications Commission will exercise its authority over us, and the National Communications Commission could decline to raise, or determine to reduce, this foreign ownership limitation. If we are deemed to be in violation of our foreign ownership limitations, any consequences arising from such violation may materially and adversely affect us. Moreover, since we are unable to control ownership of our common shares or ADSs representing our common shares, and because we have no ability to stop transfers among stockholders, or force particular stockholders to sell their shares, we may be subject to monetary fine or lose our licenses through no fault of our own. In that event, our business could be disrupted, our reputation could be damaged and the market price of our ADSs and common shares could decline. These limitations may also materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain adequate financing to fund our future capital requirements or to obtain strategic partners, and alternate forms of financing may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Restrictions on the ability to deposit our common shares into our ADS program may adversely affect the liquidity and price of the ADSs. The ability to deposit shares into our ADS program is restricted by Republic of China law, under which no person or entity, including you and us, may deposit our common shares into our ADS program unless the Securities and Futures Bureau has not objected within a prescribed period following the filing with it of an application to do so, except for the deposit of the common shares into our ADS program and for the issuance of additional ADSs in connection with: • distribution of share dividends or free distribution of our common shares; • exercise of preemptive rights of ADS holders applicable to the common shares evidenced by our ADSs in the event of capital increases for cash; or • purchases of our common shares in the domestic market in Taiwan by the investor directly or through the depositary and delivery of such shares or delivery of our common shares held by such investors to the custodian for deposit into our ADS program, subject to the following conditions: (a) the depositary may accept deposit of those shares and issue the corresponding number of ADSs with regard to such deposits only if the total number of ADSs outstanding after the deposit does not exceed the number of ADSs previously approved by the Securities and Futures Bureau, plus any ADSs issued pursuant to the events described above; and (b) this deposit may only be made to the extent previously issued ADSs have been cancelled. 16 Table of Contents As a result of the limited ability to deposit common shares into our ADS program, the prevailing market price of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange may differ from the prevailing market price of the equivalent number of our common shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. You will be more restricted in your ability to exercise voting rights than the holders of our common shares, which may diminish your influence over our corporate affairs and may reduce the value of your ADSs. Holders of American depositary receipts evidencing our ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares represented by these ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of our deposit agreement. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of notice of any meeting of holders of our common shares, the depositary bank will, as soon as practicable thereafter if requested by us in writing, mail to ADS holders the notice of the meeting sent by us, voting instruction forms and a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders. ADS holders will not generally be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the deposited securities on an individual basis. Under the deposit agreement, the voting rights attaching to the deposited securities must be exercised as to all matters subject to a vote of stockholders collectively in the same manner, except in the case of an election of directors and supervisors. The election of our directors and supervisors is by means of cumulative voting. In the event the depositary does not receive voting instructions from ADS holders in accordance with the deposit agreement, our chairman or his or her designee will be entitled to vote the common shares represented by the ADSs in the manner he or she deems appropriate at his or her discretion, which may not be in your interest. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our stockholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer you those rights unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. If the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. Changes in exchange controls that restrict your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs may have an adverse effect on the value of your investment. Your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs depends on existing and future exchange control regulations of the Republic of China. Under the current laws of the Republic of China, an ADS holder or the depositary, without obtaining further approvals from the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) or any other governmental authority or agency of the Republic of China, may convert NT dollars into other currencies, including U.S. dollars, in respect of: • the proceeds of the sale of common shares represented by ADSs or received as share dividends with respect to the common shares and deposited into the depositary receipt facility; and • any cash dividends or distributions received from the common shares represented by ADSs. In addition, the depositary may also convert into NT dollars incoming payments for purchases of common shares for deposit in the depositary receipt facility against the creation of additional ADSs. If you withdraw the common shares underlying your ADSs and become a holder of our common shares, you may convert into 17 Table of Contents NT dollars subscription payments for rights offerings. The depositary may be required to obtain foreign exchange approval from the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) on a payment-by-payment basis for conversion from NT dollars into foreign currencies of the proceeds from the sale of subscription rights of new common shares. Although it is expected that the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) will grant approval as a routine matter, required approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, or at all. Under the Republic of China Foreign Exchange Control Law, the Executive Yuan of the Republic of China may, without prior notice but subject to subsequent legislative approval rendered within ten days from such imposition, impose foreign exchange controls or other restrictions in the event of, among other things, a material change in domestic or international economic conditions which might threaten the stability of the domestic economy in Taiwan. You are required to register with the Taiwan Stock Exchange and appoint several local agents in Taiwan if you withdraw common shares from our ADS facility and become our stockholder, which may make your ownership burdensome. If you are a non-Republic of China person and wish to withdraw common shares represented by your ADSs from our ADS facility and hold those common shares, you are required under the current laws and regulations of the Republic of China to appoint an agent, also referred to as a tax guarantor, in the Republic of China for filing tax returns and making tax payment. A tax guarantor must meet certain qualifications set by the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of China and, upon appointment, becomes a guarantor of your Republic of China tax obligations. If you wish to repatriate profits derived from the sale of withdrawn common shares or cash dividends or interest on funds derived from the withdrawn common shares, you will be required to submit evidence of your appointment of a tax guarantor and the approval of the appointment by the Republic of China tax authorities. You may not be able to appoint and obtain approval for a tax guarantor in a timely manner. In addition, under the current laws of the Republic of China, you will be required to be registered as a foreign investor with the Taiwan Stock Exchange for making investments in the Republic of China securities market prior to your withdrawal and holding of common shares represented by the ADSs. You will be required to appoint a local agent in Taiwan to, among other things, open a securities trading account with a local securities brokerage firm and a bank account to remit funds, exercise stockholders’ rights and perform other functions as holders of ADSs may designate. You must also appoint a local bank to act as custodian for handling confirmation and settlement of trades, safekeeping of securities and cash proceeds and reporting and declaration of information. Without the relevant registration and appointment of the local agent and custodian and the opening of a securities trading account and bank account, you will not be able to hold, subsequently sell or otherwise transfer our common shares withdrawn from the ADSs facilities on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. Our actual financial results may differ materially from our published full year guidance. Each year, we voluntarily publish operating results guidance for the current fiscal year prepared in accordance with R.O.C. GAAP. These projections are based on a number of estimates and assumptions and are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, including the risks factors described in this annual report. In particular, projections are forward-looking statements that are necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that one or more of the estimates on which the projections were based will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results, and such variances will likely increase over time. 