ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before deciding whether to purchase shares of our common stock. Each of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Adverse changes in economic conditions and reduced information technology spending may continue to negatively impact our business. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers and the geographic regions in which we operate. In addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Over the past two fiscal years, there was a significant deterioration in economic conditions in many of the countries and regions in which we do business. Although there has recently been improvement in these economic conditions, they have caused some of our current or prospective customers to reduce their information technology spending, causing them to modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products. If our customers continue to reduce their information technology spending, or otherwise modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may fall below expectations in any particular fiscal quarter, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts that follow our company in any period, the price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition to other risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • the impact of the recent economic downturn on customer purchases; • the impact of new competitors or new competitive offerings; • the typical recording of a significant portion of our quarterly sales in the final month of the quarter, whereby small delays in completion of sales transactions could have a significant impact on our operating results for that quarter; • the relatively high average selling price of our products and our dependence on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue in any quarterly period, whereby the loss of or delay in a customer order could significantly reduce our revenue for that quarter; • the possibility of seasonality in demand for our products; 13 Table of Contents • the addition of new customers or the loss of existing customers; • the rates at which customers purchase additional products or additional capacity for existing products from us; • changes in the mix of products and services sold; • the rates at which customers renew their maintenance and support contracts with us; • our ability to develop and introduce new products and to enhance our existing products with new and better functionality that meet customer requirements; • the timing of recognizing revenue as a result of revenue recognition rules, including due to the timing of delivery and receipt of our products; • the length of our product sales cycle; • the productivity and growth of our sales force; • service interruptions with any of our single source suppliers or manufacturing partners; • changes in pricing by us or our competitors, or the need to provide discounts to win business; • the timing of our product releases or upgrades or similar announcements by us or our competitors; • the timing of investments in research and development related to new product releases or upgrades; • our ability to control costs, including operating expenses and the costs of the components used in our products; • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock compensation expenses; • future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies; • costs related to the acquisition and integration of companies, assets or technologies; • technology and intellectual property issues associated with our products; and • general economic trends, including changes in information technology spending or geopolitical events such as war or incidents of terrorism. Most of our operating expenses do not vary directly with revenue and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations, we could not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore this revenue shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our expected operating results for that quarter. Our limited operating history and the rapid development of the data warehouse market make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and may increase the risk of your investment. Our company has only been in existence since August 2000. We first began shipping products in February 2003 and much of our growth has occurred in the past several fiscal years. Our limited operating history and the rapid development of the data warehouse market in which we operate makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and our future prospects. As a result, we cannot be certain that we will sustain our growth or maintain profitability. We will encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by early-stage companies in rapidly-evolving industries. These risks include the need to: • attract new customers and maintain current customer relationships; • continue to develop and upgrade our data warehouse solutions; • respond quickly and effectively to competitive pressures; • offer competitive pricing or provide discounts to customers in order to win business; • manage our expanding operations, including internationally; 14 Table of Contents • maintain adequate control over our expenses; • maintain adequate internal controls and procedures; • maintain our reputation, build trust with our customers and further establish our brand; and • identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. If we fail to successfully address these needs, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. We have a history of losses, and we may not maintain profitability in the future. We have been profitable for the last three fiscal years, generating net income of $4.2 million in fiscal 2010, $31.5 million in fiscal 2009 and $2.0 million in fiscal 2008, but we had not been profitable in any prior fiscal period. As of January 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was $43.4 million. We expect to make significant additional expenditures to facilitate the expansion of our business, including expenditures in the areas of sales, research and development, and customer service and support. Furthermore, we may encounter unforeseen issues that require us to incur additional costs. As a result of these increased expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenue to maintain profitability. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain profitability and we may incur significant losses in the future. We depend on a single product family, our data warehouse appliance family, for nearly all of our revenue, so we are particularly vulnerable to any factors adversely affecting the sale of that product family. Nearly all of our revenue is derived from sales and service of our data warehouse appliance product family, and we expect that this product family will account for substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future. If the data warehouse market declines or our data warehouse appliance products fail to maintain or achieve greater market acceptance, we will not be able to grow our revenues sufficiently to maintain profitability. If our new data warehouse appliance, the TwinFintm appliance, does not achieve widespread market acceptance, our operating results will suffer. In August 2009, we announced the general availability of our next generation TwinFin appliance, which is the first in a family of new blade server-based appliances. We expect that sales of our new family of blade server-based data warehouse appliances, of which the TwinFin appliance is the first member, will generate the substantial majority of our anticipated product revenues in fiscal 2011. Our future sales and operating results will depend, to a significant extent, on the successful deployment and marketing of the TwinFin appliance. In order to achieve market penetration for the TwinFin appliance, we may be required to incur additional expenses in marketing and sales in advance of the realization of expected sales. There can be no assurance that the TwinFin appliance will achieve widespread acceptance in the market. If we incur delays in the manufacture and shipment of the TwinFin appliance or customer testing and verification takes longer than anticipated, or the TwinFin appliance does not achieve our planned levels of sales or the TwinFin appliance does not achieve performance specifications, our operating results will suffer and our competitive position could be impaired. If we lose key personnel, or if we are unable to attract and retain highly-qualified personnel on a cost-effective basis, it will be more difficult for us to manage our business and to identify and pursue growth opportunities. Our success depends substantially on the performance of our key senior management, technical, and sales and marketing personnel. Each of our employees may terminate his or her relationship with us at any time and the loss of the services of such persons could have an adverse effect on our business. There may be departures of our key management personnel from time to time and our continued success will depend on our ability to attract or develop highly qualified managerial personnel and fully integrate them into our business, which may be time-consuming and may result in additional disruptions to our operations. In addition, our success depends in significant part on our ability to develop and enhance our products, which requires talented hardware 15 Table of Contents and software engineers with specialized skills, and on our ability to maintain and grow an effective sales force. We experience intense competition for highly qualified managerial, technical, and sales and marketing personnel and we cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully attract, assimilate, or retain such personnel in the future. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to existing products, if our new products and enhancements to existing products do not achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to manage product transitions, we may fail to increase, or may lose, market share. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. Our future growth depends on our successful development and introduction of new products, such as our recently announced TwinFin appliance, and enhancements to existing products that achieve acceptance in the market. Due to the complexity of our products, which include integrated hardware and software components, any new products and product enhancements would be subject to significant technical risks that could impact our ability to introduce those products and enhancements in a timely manner. In addition, such new products or product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance despite our expending significant resources to develop them. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop, introduce and enhance our products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or evolving customer requirements, or if these new products and product enhancements do not achieve market acceptance due to competitive or other factors, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Product introductions and certain enhancements of existing products by us in future periods may also reduce demand for our existing products or could delay purchases by customers awaiting arrival of our new products. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered in a timely manner to meet customer demand. We face intense and growing competition from leading technology companies as well as from emerging companies. Our inability to compete effectively with any or all of these competitors could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated market penetration and achieve or sustain profitability. The data warehouse market is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. This competition may make it more difficult for us to sell our products, and may result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Currently, our most significant competition includes companies which typically sell several if not all elements of a data warehouse environment as individual products, including database software, servers, storage and professional services. These competitors are often leaders in many of these segments including EMC, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Oracle, Sun Microsystems (which was acquired by Oracle in January 2010), Sybase and Teradata. In addition, a large number of fast growing companies have recently entered the market, many of them selling integrated appliance offerings similar to our products. Additionally, as the benefits of an appliance solution have become evident in the marketplace, many of our competitors have also begun to bundle their products into appliance-like offerings that more directly compete with our products. We also expect additional competition in the future from new and existing companies with whom we do not currently compete directly. As our industry evolves, our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including software and hardware companies with whom we have partnerships and whose products interoperate with our own, that could acquire significant market share, which could adversely affect our business. We also face competition from internally developed systems. Any of these competitive threats, alone or in combination with others, could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Many of our competitors have greater market presence, longer operating histories, stronger name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have broader product and service offerings than we do. These companies may attempt to use their greater resources to better position themselves in the data warehouse market including by pricing their products at a discount or bundling them with other products 16 Table of Contents and services in an attempt to rapidly gain market share. Moreover, many of our competitors have more extensive customer and partner relationships than we do, and may therefore be in a better position to identify and respond to market developments or changes in customer demands. Potential customers may also prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier regardless of product performance or features. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. In addition, some of our traditional competitors have introduced their own integrated data warehousing solutions which may cause our sales cycles to be delayed and may have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends on the continued recognition of the need for business intelligence in the marketplace and on the adoption by our customers of data warehouse appliances, often as replacements for existing systems, to enable business intelligence. If we fail to improve our products to further drive this market migration as well as to successfully compete with alternative approaches and products, our business would suffer. Due to the innovative nature of our products and the new approaches to business intelligence that our products enable, purchases of our products often involve the adoption of new methods of database access and utilization on the part of our customers. This may entail the acknowledgement of the benefits conferred by business intelligence and the customer-wide adoption of business intelligence analysis that makes the benefits of our system particularly relevant. Business intelligence solutions are still in their early stages of growth and their continued adoption and growth in the marketplace remain uncertain. Additionally, our appliance approach requires our customers to run their data warehouses in new and innovative ways and often requires our customers to replace their existing equipment and supplier relationships, which they may be unwilling to do, especially in light of the often critical nature of the components and systems involved and the significant capital and other resources they may have previously invested. Furthermore, purchases of our products involve material changes to established purchasing patterns and policies. Even if prospective customers recognize the need for our products, they may not select our data warehouse appliance solutions because they choose to wait for the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our data warehouse appliance solutions. Therefore, our future success also depends on our ability to maintain our leadership position in the data warehouse market and to proactively address the needs of the market and our customers to further drive the adoption of business intelligence and to sustain our competitive advantage versus competing approaches to business intelligence and alternate product offerings. Claims that we infringe or otherwise misuse the intellectual property of others could subject us to significant liability and disrupt our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our competitors protect their intellectual property rights by means such as trade secrets, patents, copyrights and trademarks. We have not conducted an independent review of patents issued to third parties. Third parties have asserted, and may assert in the future, claims that our products infringe patents or patent applications to which we do not hold licenses or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties have brought, and could in the future bring, claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay manufacturing or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. In addition, we could be forced to redesign the product that uses any allegedly infringing technology. In November 2009, we filed a lawsuit against Intelligent Integration Systems, Inc., a former solutions provider to Netezza that we refer to as IISi, alleging that IISi breached an agreement with us, as well as breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, intentional interference with contractual relations and beneficial business relations and violations of the Massachusetts fair business practices act. In January 2010, IISi filed an answer and counterclaim in response to our complaint in which IISi alleges that we breached our contract with IISi, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, misappropriation of trade secrets, unjust enrichment, business defamation, intentional interference with contractual relations and violations of the Massachusetts fair business 17 Table of Contents practices act. In its counterclaim, IISi seeks unspecified monetary damages, an injunction requiring us to return its trade secrets and proprietary information, costs and attorneys fees. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against IISi’s counterclaims. However, the prosecution of our lawsuit against IISi, and the defense against IISi’s counterclaims may require significant investment of time and financial resources. We may in the future be sued for violations of other parties’ intellectual property rights, and the risk of such a lawsuit will likely increase as our size and the number and scope of our products increase, as our geographic presence and market share expand and as the number of competitors in our market increases. Any such claims or litigation could: • be time-consuming and expensive to defend, whether meritorious or not; • cause shipment delays; • divert the attention of our technical and managerial resources; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties, which may not be available on terms that we deem acceptable, if at all; • prevent us from operating all or a portion of our business or force us to redesign our products, which could be difficult and expensive and may degrade the performance of our products; • subject us to significant liability for damages or result in significant settlement payments; and/or • require us to indemnify our customers, distribution partners or suppliers. Any of the foregoing could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our products must interoperate with our customers’ information technology infrastructure, including customers’ software applications, networks, servers and data-access protocols, and if our products do not do so successfully, we may experience a weakening demand for our products. To be competitive in the market, our products must interoperate with our customers’ information technology infrastructure, including software applications, network infrastructure and servers supplied by a variety of other vendors, many of whom are competitors of ours. Our products currently interoperate with a number of business intelligence and data-integration applications provided by vendors including IBM and Oracle, among others. When new or updated versions of these software applications are introduced, we must sometimes develop updated versions of our software that may require assistance from these vendors to ensure that our products effectively interoperate with these applications. If these vendors do not provide us with assistance on a timely basis, or decide not to work with us for competitive or other reasons, including due to consolidation with our competitors, we may be unable to ensure such interoperability. Additionally, our products interoperate with servers, network infrastructure and software applications predominantly through the use of data-access protocols. While many of these protocols are created and maintained by independent standards organizations, some of these protocols that exist today or that may be created in the future are, or could be, proprietary technology and therefore require licensing the proprietary protocol’s specifications from a third party or implementing the protocol without specifications. Our development efforts to provide interoperability with our customers’ information technology infrastructures require substantial capital investment and the devotion of substantial employee resources. We may not accomplish these development efforts quickly, cost-effectively or at all. If we fail for any reason to maintain interoperability, we may experience a weakening in demand for our products, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to enhance our brand, our ability to expand our customer base will be impaired and our operating results may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of the Netezza brand is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our products and is an important element in attracting new customers and shortening our sales cycle. We expect the importance of brand recognition to increase as competition further develops in our market. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and our 18 Table of Contents ability to provide customers with reliable and technically sophisticated products at competitive prices. If customers do not perceive our products and services to be of high value, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could adversely impact our financial results. Despite our best efforts, our brand promotion efforts may not yield increased revenue sufficient to offset the additional expenses incurred in our brand-building efforts. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Investment in product development often involves a long payback cycle. We have made and expect to continue making significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. Accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense, which contribute to the unpredictability and variability of our financial performance and may adversely affect our profitability. The timing of our revenue is difficult to predict as we experience extended sales cycles, due in part to our need to educate our customers about our products and participate in extended product evaluations and the high purchase price of our products. In addition, product purchases are often subject to a variety of customer considerations that may extend the length of our sales cycle, including customers’ acceptance of our approach to data warehouse management and their willingness to replace their existing solutions and supplier relationships, timing of their budget cycles and approval processes, budget constraints, extended negotiations, and administrative, processing and other delays, including those due to general economic factors. As a result, our sales cycle extends to more than nine months in some cases and it is difficult to predict when or if a sale to a potential customer will occur. Furthermore, the introduction of new products, such as the recent introduction of our TwinFin appliance, may further extend the length of our sales cycle because of additional customer testing, verification and acceptance criteria for the new product. All of these factors can contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance and increase the likelihood that our operating results in a particular quarter will fall below investor expectations. In addition, the provision of evaluation units to customers may require significant investment in inventory in advance of sales of these units, which sales may not ultimately transpire. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant resources, or if we experience delays for any of the reasons discussed above, our future revenues and operating expenses may be materially adversely affected. Our company has grown rapidly and we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. Between January 31, 2005 and January 31, 2010, the number of our employees increased from 140 to 425 and our installed base of customers grew from 15 to 325. In addition, during that time period our number of office locations has increased from 3 to 18. We anticipate that further expansion of our organization and operations will be required to achieve our growth targets. Our rapid growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operational infrastructure. Our failure to continue to enhance our management personnel and policies and our operational and financial systems and controls in response to our growth could result in operating inefficiencies that could impair our competitive position and would increase our costs more than we had planned. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business, our reputation and our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our ability to sell to U.S. federal government agencies is subject to evolving laws and policies that could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and operating results, and our contracts with the U.S. federal government may impose requirements that are unfavorable to us. In the fiscal years ended January 31, 2010 and 2009, we derived approximately 11% and 3%, respectively, of our revenue from sales made by resellers and various integrators to U.S. federal government agencies, and this amount may increase substantially in future periods. The demand for data warehouse products and services by 19 Table of Contents federal government agencies may be affected by laws and policies that might restrict agencies’ collection, processing, and sharing of certain categories of information. Our ability to profitably sell products to government agencies is also subject to changes in agency funding priorities and contracting procedures and our ability to comply with applicable government regulations and other requirements. The restrictions on federal government data management include, for example, the Privacy Act, which requires agencies to publicize their collection and use of personal data and implement procedures to provide individuals with access to that information; the Federal Information Security Management Act, which requires agencies to develop comprehensive data privacy and security measures that may increase the cost of maintaining certain data; and the E-government Act, which requires agencies to conduct privacy assessments before acquiring certain information technology products or services and before initiating the collection of personal information or the aggregation of existing databases of personal information. These restrictions, any future restrictions, and public or political pressure to constrain the government’s collection and processing of personal information may adversely affect the government’s demand for our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and operating results. Federal agency funding for information technology programs is subject to annual appropriations established by Congress and spending plans adopted by individual agencies. Accordingly, government purchasing commitments normally last no longer than one year. The amounts of available funding in any year may be reduced to reflect budgetary constraints, economic conditions, or competing priorities for federal funding. Constraints on federal funding for information technology could harm our ability to sell products to government agencies, causing fluctuations in our revenues from this segment from period to period and resulting in a weakening of our growth prospects, operating results and financial condition. Our contracts with government agencies may subject us to certain risks and give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including rights that allow the government to, for example: • terminate contracts for convenience at any time without cause; • obtain detailed cost or pricing information; • receive “most favored customer” pricing; • perform routine audits; • impose equal employment and hiring standards; • require products to be manufactured in specified countries; • restrict non-U.S. ownership or investment in our company; and • pursue administrative, civil or criminal remedies for contractual violations. Moreover, some of our contracts allow the government to use, or permit others to use, patented inventions that we developed under those contracts, and to place conditions on our right to retain title to such inventions. Likewise, some of our government contracts allow the government to use or disclose software or technical data that we develop or deliver under the contract without constraining subsequent uses of those data. Third parties authorized by the government to use our patents, software and technical data may emerge as alternative sources for the products and services we offer to the government and may enable the government to negotiate lower prices for our products and services. If we fail to assert available protections for our patents, software, and technical data, our ability to control the use of our intellectual property may be compromised, which may benefit our competitors, reduce the prices we can obtain for our products and services, and harm our financial condition. Our international operations are subject to additional risks that we do not face in the United States, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In the fiscal years ended January 31, 2010 and 2009, we derived approximately 20% and 26%, respectively, of our revenue from customers based outside the United States, and we currently have sales personnel in ten different 20 Table of Contents foreign countries. We expect our revenue and operations outside the United States will expand in the future. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks that we do not face in the United States, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal and compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe, during Lunar New Year in parts of Asia and in other periods in various individual countries; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable; • additional withholding taxes or other taxes on our foreign income, and tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or investment; • imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements, many of which differ from those in the United States; • increased length of time for shipping and acceptance of our products; • difficulties in repatriating overseas earnings; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; • tariffs and trade barriers, import/export controls, and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • costs and delays associated with developing products in multiple languages; and • political unrest, war, incidents of terrorism, or responses to such events. Our overall success in international markets depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in managing these risks in each country where we do business. Our failure to manage these risks successfully could harm our international operations, reduce our international sales and increase our costs, thus adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future revenue growth will depend in part on our ability to further develop our indirect sales channel, and our inability to effectively do so will impair our ability to grow our revenues. Our future revenue growth will depend in part on the continued development of our indirect sales channel to complement our direct sales force. Our indirect sales channel includes resellers, systems integration firms and analytic service providers. In the fiscal years ended January 31, 2010 and 2009, we derived approximately 14% and 21%, respectively, of our revenue from our indirect sales channel. We plan to continue to invest in our indirect sales channel by expanding upon and developing new relationships with resellers, systems integration firms and analytic service providers. While the development of our indirect sales channel is a priority for us, we cannot predict the extent to which we will be able to attract and retain financially stable, motivated indirect channel partners. Additionally, due in part to the complexity and innovative nature of our products, our channel partners may not be successful in marketing and selling our products. Our indirect sales channel may be adversely affected by disruptions in relationships between our channel partners and their customers, as well as by competition between our channel partners or between our channel partners and our direct sales force. In addition our reputation could suffer as a result of the conduct and manner of marketing and sales by our channel partners. Our agreements with our channel partners are generally not exclusive and may be terminated without cause. If we fail to effectively develop and manage our indirect channel for any of these reasons, we may have difficulty attaining our growth targets. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to sell our products and retain customers is highly dependent on the quality of our maintenance and support services offerings, and our failure to offer high-quality maintenance and support could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Most of our customers purchase maintenance and support services from us, which represents a significant portion of our revenue (approximately 30% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 and 24% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009). Customer satisfaction with our maintenance and support services is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products and the success of our business. In addition to our support staff and installation and technical account management teams, we have developed service relationships with third parties to provide on-site hardware service to our customers. Although we believe these third parties and any other third-party service provider we utilize in the future will offer a high level of service consistent with our internal customer support services, we cannot assure you that they will continue to devote the resources necessary to provide our customers with effective technical support. In addition, if we are unable to renew our service agreements with these third parties we utilize in the future or such agreements are terminated, we may be unable to establish alternative relationships on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we or our service partners are unable to provide effective maintenance and support services, it could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and harm our reputation with current and potential customers. Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected software or hardware defects, which could cause data unavailability, loss or corruption that might result in liability to our customers and harm to our reputation and business. Our products are highly technical and complex and are often used to store and manage data critical to our customers’ business operations. Our products may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities that could result in data unavailability, loss or corruption or other harm to our customers. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after the products have been installed and used by customers. Any errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release or that are caused by another vendor’s products with which we interoperate but are nevertheless attributed to us by our customers, as well as any computer virus or human error on the part of our customer support or other personnel, that result in a customer’s data being misappropriated, unavailable, lost or corrupted could have significant adverse consequences, including: • loss of customers; • negative publicity and damage to our reputation; • diversion of our engineering, customer service and other resources; • increased service and warranty costs; and • loss or delay in revenue or market acceptance of our products. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, there is a possibility that we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims from both our customers and our distribution partners. The cost of defending such a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be substantial and could divert management’s attention from ongoing operations of the company. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate with respect to a claim or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all we may be liable for payment of substantial damages. Any or all of these potential consequences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. It is difficult to predict our future capital needs and we may be unable to obtain additional financing that we may need, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe that our current balance of cash, cash equivalents and investments, together with cash expected to be generated from operations, will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements, including anticipated 22 Table of Contents capital expenditures, for at least the next twelve months. However, we may need to raise additional funds if we are presented with unforeseen circumstances or opportunities in order to, among other things: • develop or enhance our products; • support additional capital expenditures; • respond to competitive pressures; • fund operating losses in future periods; or • take advantage of acquisition or expansion opportunities. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, you may experience significant dilution of your ownership interest, and the newly issued securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility and would also require us to fund additional interest expense, which would harm our profitability. Holders of debt would also have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. A substantial portion of our marketable securities is invested in highly rated auction rate securities. Failures in these auctions may affect our liquidity. A substantial percentage of our marketable securities portfolio is invested in highly rated auction rate securities collateralized by student loans with the majority of such collateral being guaranteed by the United States government. Auction rate securities are securities that are structured to allow for short-term interest rate resets but with contractual maturities that can be well in excess of ten years. At the end of each reset period, which typically occurs every 7 to 35 days, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. Beginning in late February 2008, due to market conditions, the auction process for our auction rate securities failed. Such failures resulted in the interest rate on these investments resetting to predetermined rates in accordance with their underlying loan agreements which are, in some instances, lower than the current market rate of interest. In the event we need to liquidate our investments in these types of securities, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful, the issuer redeems the outstanding securities, a buyer is found outside the auction process, the securities mature, or there is a default requiring immediate repayment from the issuer. In the future, should the auction rate securities we hold be subject to additional auction failures and/or we determine that the decline in value of auction rate securities are other than temporary, we would recognize a loss in our consolidated statement of operations, which could be material. In addition, any future failed auctions may adversely impact the liquidity of our investments. Furthermore, if one or more issuers of the auction rate securities held in our portfolio are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of these investments through an impairment charge, which could be material. Due to our inability to sell these securities at auction since late February 2008, on November 7, 2008, we accepted an offer from UBS AG, an investment broker through which we hold par value $13.3 million of auction rate securities as of January 31, 2010, that grants us the right to sell to UBS $13.3 million of our total $49.7 million auction rate securities position, at par, at any time during a two-year period beginning June 30, 2010, which we refer to as the put right. Nevertheless, the put right only provides us with the opportunity to liquidate a portion of our auction rate securities position and to the extent we are not able to liquidate the remainder of our auction rate securities, our lack of access to the underlying value of such securities could have a material impact on our income and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and contractual provisions with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect 23 Table of Contents our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may not be successful in doing so, for several reasons. We cannot be certain that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even if patents are issued to us, they may be contested, or our competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies without infringing our patents. Although we enter into confidentiality, assignments of proprietary rights and license agreements, as appropriate, with our employees and third parties, including our contract engineering firm, and generally control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights are sufficient to prevent their misappropriation, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. Even in those instances where we have determined that another party is breaching our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, enforcing our legal rights with respect to such breach may be expensive and difficult. We may need to engage in litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. Further, many of our current and potential competitors are substantially larger than we are and have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to defending any claims by us that they have breached our intellectual property rights. Our products may be subject to open source licenses, which may restrict how we use or distribute our solutions or require that we release the source code of certain technologies subject to those licenses. Some of our proprietary technologies incorporate open source software. For example, the open source database drivers that we use may be subject to an open source license. The GNU General Public License and other open source licenses typically require that source code subject to the license be released or made available to the public. Such open source licenses typically mandate that proprietary software, when combined in specific ways with open source software, become subject to the open source license. We take steps to ensure that our proprietary software is not combined with, or does not incorporate, open source software in ways that would require our proprietary software to be subject to an open source license. However, few courts have interpreted the open source licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is therefore subject to uncertainty. If these licenses were to be interpreted in a manner different than we interpret them, we may find ourselves in violation of such licenses. While our customer contracts prohibit the use of our technology in any way that would cause it to violate an open source license, our customers could, in violation of our agreement, use our technology in a manner prohibited by an open source license. In addition, we rely on multiple software engineers to design our proprietary products and technologies. Although we take steps to ensure that our engineers do not include open source software in the products and technologies they design, we may not exercise complete control over the development efforts of our engineers and we cannot be certain that they have not incorporated open source software into our proprietary technologies. In the event that portions of our proprietary technology are determined to be subject to an open source license, we might be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, which could reduce or eliminate our ability to commercialize our products. As part of our business strategy, we engage in acquisitions, which could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders, reduce our financial resources and result in increased expenses. We acquired NuTech Solutions, Inc. in May 2008 and Tizor Systems, Inc. in February 2009 (see Note 7 to our accompanying financial statements). In the future, we may acquire additional companies, assets or technologies in an effort to complement our existing offerings or enhance our market position. Any acquisitions we make could subject us to a number of risks, including: • the purchase price we pay could significantly deplete our cash reserves, impair our future operating flexibility or result in dilution to our existing stockholders; • we may find that the acquired company, assets or technology do not further improve our financial and strategic position as planned; 24 Table of Contents • we may find that we overpaid for the company, asset or technology, or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition have changed; • we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; • we may have difficulty retaining the employees with the technical skills needed to enhance and provide services with respect to the acquired assets or technologies; • the acquisition may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors; • we may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; • we may encounter difficulty entering and competing in new product or geographic markets; • we may encounter a competitive response, including price competition or intellectual property litigation; • we may have product liability, customer liability or intellectual property liability associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products; • we may be subject to litigation by terminated employees or third parties; • we may incur debt, one-time write-offs, such as acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges; • we may acquire goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges; • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; and • our due diligence process may fail to identify significant existing issues with the target company’s product quality, product architecture, financial disclosures, accounting practices, internal controls, legal contingencies, intellectual property and other matters. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, from time to time we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to governmental export controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations and their distribution outside the United States may be subject to export licensing or the conditions of a regulatory exception to an export licensing requirement. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to deploy our products in those countries. The introduction of new products, such as our new TwinFin appliance, changes in our products or changes in export regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by these regulations could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. It may be costly to implement systems and procedures to comply with these restrictions, and we may incur penalties, including limits on foreign distribution, for any transactions that we conduct in violation of these regulations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents We rely on a single contract manufacturer to assemble our products, and our failure to manage our relationship with our contract manufacturer successfully could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. We currently rely on a single contract manufacturer to assemble our appliances, manage our appliance supply chain and participate in negotiations regarding appliance costs. While we believe that our use of this contract manufacturer provides benefits to our business, our reliance on it reduces our control over the assembly process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply. These risks could become more acute if we are successful in our efforts to increase revenue. If we fail to manage our relationships with this contract manufacturer effectively, or if the contract manufacturer experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. In addition, we are required to provide forecasts to the contract manufacturer regarding product demand and production levels. If we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may have excess or inadequate inventory or incur cancellation charges or penalties, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, the contract manufacturer can terminate our agreement for any reason upon 60 days’ notice. If we are required to change contract manufacturers or assume internal manufacturing operations due to any termination of the agreements with our contract manufacturer, we may lose revenue, experience manufacturing delays, incur increased costs or otherwise damage our customer relationships. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on acceptable terms or at all. We depend on a continued supply of components for our products from third-party suppliers, and if shortages of these components arise, we may not be able to secure enough components to build new products to meet customer demand or we may be forced to pay higher prices for these components. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for several key components utilized in the assembly of our products, including disk drives and microprocessors. Although in many cases we use standard components for our products, some of these components may only be purchased or may only be available from a single supplier. In addition, we maintain relatively low inventory and acquire components only as needed, and neither we nor our contract manufacturer enter into long-term supply contracts for these components and none of our third-party suppliers is obligated to supply products to us for any specific period or in any specific quantities, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Our industry has experienced component shortages and delivery delays in the past, and we may experience shortages or delays of critical components in the future as a result of strong demand in the industry or other factors. If shortages or delays arise, we may be unable to ship our products to our customers on time, or at all, and increased costs for these components that we could not pass on to our customers would negatively impact our operating margins. For example, new generations of disk drives are often in short supply, which may limit our ability to procure these disk drives. In addition, disk drives represent a significant portion of our cost of revenue, and the price of various kinds of disk drives is subject to substantial volatility in the market. Many of the other components required to build our systems are also occasionally in short supply. Therefore, we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products, resulting in an inability to meet customer demand or our own operating goals, which could adversely affect our customer relationships, business, operating results and financial condition. We currently rely on a contract engineering firm for quality assurance and product integration engineering. In addition to our internal research and development staff, we have contracted with Persistent Systems Ltd. located in Pune, India, to employ a dedicated team of engineers focused on certain aspects of our product development. Persistent Systems can terminate our agreement for any reason upon 15 days’ notice. If we were required to change our contract engineering firm, including due to a termination of the agreement with Persistent Systems, we may experience delays, incur increased costs or otherwise damage our customer relationships. We cannot assure you that we will be able to establish an alternative contract engineering firm relationship on acceptable terms or at all. 26 Table of Contents Future interpretations of existing accounting standards could adversely affect our operating results. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States, or GAAP, are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, the SEC and various other bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported operating results, and they could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, the AICPA and the Emerging Issues Task Force continue to issue interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant accounting standards to a wide range of sales contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in software licensing arrangements and arrangements for the sale of hardware products that contain more than an insignificant amount of software. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards or changes in our business practices could result in delays in our recognition of revenue that may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. For example, we may in the future have to defer recognition of revenue for a transaction that involves: • undelivered elements for which we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value; • requirements that we deliver services for significant enhancements and modifications to customize our software for a particular customer; or • material acceptance criteria. Because of these factors and other specific requirements under GAAP for recognition of software revenue, we must include specific terms in customer contracts in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver products or perform services. Negotiation of such terms could extend our sales cycle, and, under some circumstances, we may accept terms and conditions that do not permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery. In October 2009, the FASB issued two accounting standards which significantly amended previous guidance for the recognition of certain revenue arrangements that include software elements and multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. Although we are still currently evaluating the impact of adopting these standards, we plan to early adopt the guidance in the fiscal year beginning February 1, 2010 and this adoption may have a material affect on our operating results. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could negatively impact the price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. SEC rules require that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, we performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC rules. Our compliance with these rules will continue to require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Even if we conclude, and our independent registered public accounting firm concurs, that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness in our internal control, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, a delay in compliance with these rules could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including ineligibility for short form registration, action by the SEC, the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the NYSE and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price and could harm our business. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock will be susceptible to fluctuations in the market due to numerous factors, many of which may be beyond our control, including: • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally or those that sell data warehouse solutions in particular; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • the financial guidance that we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance, or our failure to meet such guidance; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, our failure to meet such estimates, or failure of analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock; • the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements by us, including our filings with the SEC; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, customer wins or losses, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need for our products; • the loss of key personnel; • the development and sustainability of an active trading market for our common stock; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; • future sales of our common stock by our officers or directors; and • other events or factors affecting the economy generally, including those resulting from political unrest, war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it would likely result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on any research reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. In the event securities or industry analysts cover our company and one or more of these analysts downgrade our stock or publish unfavorable reports about our business, our stock price would likely decline. In addition, if any securities or industry analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you 28 Table of Contents might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • provide that directors may only be removed “for cause;” • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; • eliminate the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which has the effect of requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company by prohibiting stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us during a specified period unless certain approvals are obtained. Insiders own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock and will therefore have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 20% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing another party from acquiring control over us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 