Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Shareholders Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Ames National Corporation (the "Company") is an Iowa corporation and bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The Company owns 100% of the stock of five banking subsidiaries consisting of two national banks and three state-chartered banks, as described below. All of the Company’s operations are conducted in the State of Iowa and primarily within the central Iowa counties of Boone, Marshall, Polk and Story where the Company’s banking subsidiaries are located. The Company does not engage in any material business activities apart from its ownership of its banking subsidiaries. The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 405 Fifth Street, Ames, Iowa 50010 and its telephone number is (515) 232-6251. The Company was organized and incorporated on January 21, 1975 under the laws of the State of Iowa to serve as a holding company for its principal banking subsidiary, First National Bank, Ames, Iowa ("First National") located in Ames, Iowa. In 1983, the Company acquired the stock of the State Bank & Trust Co. ("State Bank") located in Nevada, Iowa; in 1991, the Company, through a newly-chartered state bank known as Boone Bank & Trust Co. ("Boone Bank"), acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of the former Boone State Bank & Trust Company located in Boone, Iowa; in 1995, the Company acquired the stock of the Randall-Story State Bank (”Randall-Story Bank”) located in Story City, Iowa; and in 2002, the Company chartered and commenced operations of a new national banking organization, United Bank & Trust NA (“United Bank”), located in Marshalltown, Iowa. First National, State Bank, Boone Bank, Randall-Story Bank and United Bank are each operated as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. These five financial institutions are referred to in this Form 10-K collectively as the “Banks” and individually as a “Bank”. The principal sources of Company revenue are: (i) interest and fees earned on loans made by the Banks; (ii) service charges on deposit accounts maintained at the Banks; (iii) interest on fixed income investments held by the Banks; (iv) fees on trust services provided by those Banks exercising trust powers; and (v) securities gains and dividends on equity investments held by the Company and the Banks. The Banks’ lending activities consist primarily of short-term and medium-term commercial and residential real estate loans, agricultural and business operating loans and lines of credit, equipment loans, vehicle loans, personal loans and lines of credit, home improvement loans and secondary mortgage loan origination. The Banks also offer a variety of demand, savings and time deposits, cash management services, merchant credit card processing, safe deposit boxes, wire transfers, direct deposit of payroll and social security checks and automated teller machine access. Four of the five Banks also offer trust services. The Company provides various services to the Banks which include, but are not limited to, management assistance, internal auditing services, human resources services and administration, compliance management, marketing assistance and coordination, loan review and assistance with respect to computer systems and procedures. 3 Table of Contents Banking Subsidiaries First National Bank, Ames, Iowa. First National is a nationally-chartered, commercial bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”). It was organized in 1903 and became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company in 1975 through a bank holding company reorganization whereby the then shareholders of First National exchanged all of their First National stock for stock in the Company. First National provides full-service banking to businesses and residents within the Ames community and surrounding area. It provides a variety of products and services designed to meet the needs of the market it serves. It has an experienced staff of bank officers including many who have spent the majority of their banking careers with First National and who emphasize long-term customer relationships. First National conducts business out of three full-service offices and one super market location, all located in the city of Ames and a new full-service office built in Ankeny, Iowa that opened in April of 2007. As of December 31, 2008, First National had capital of $37,847,000 and 96 full-time equivalent employees. Full-time equivalents represent the number of people a business would employ if all its employees were employed on a full-time basis. It is calculated by dividing the total number of hours worked by all full and part-time employees by the number of hours a full-time individual would work for a given period of time. First National had net income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 of approximately $1,237,000, $5,887,000 and $5,938,000, respectively. Total assets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were approximately $445,212,000, $466,908,000 and $423,517,000, respectively. State Bank & Trust Co., Nevada, Iowa. State Bank is an Iowa, state-chartered, FDIC insured commercial bank. State Bank was acquired by the Company in 1983 through a stock transaction whereby the then shareholders of State Bank exchanged all their State Bank stock for stock in the Company. State Bank was organized in 1939 and provides full-serve banking to businesses and residents within the Nevada area from its main Nevada location and two offices, one in McCallsburg, Iowa and the other in Colo, Iowa. It is strong in agricultural, commercial and residential real estate lending. As of December 31, 2008, State Bank had capital of $12,205,000 and 25 full-time equivalent employees. State Bank had net income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 of approximately $1,738,000, $1,352,000 and $1,310,000, respectively. Total assets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were approximately $121,792,000, $107,585,000 and $114,266,000, respectively. Boone Bank & Trust Co., Boone, Iowa. Boone Bank is an Iowa, state-chartered, FDIC insured commercial bank. Boone Bank was organized in 1992 by the Company under a new state charter in connection with a purchase and assumption transaction whereby Boone Bank purchased certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of the former Boone State Bank & Trust Company in exchange for a cash payment. It provides full service banking to businesses and residents within the Boone community and surrounding area. It is actively engaged in agricultural, consumer and commercial lending, including real estate, operating and equipment loans. It conducts business from its main office and a full service branch office, both located in Boone. As of December 31, 2008, Boone Bank had capital of $12,237,000 and 25 full-time equivalent employees. Boone Bank had net income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 of approximately $1,406,000, $1,586,000 and $1,636,000, respectively. Total assets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were approximately $101,882,000, $97,574,000 and $103,225,000, respectively. 4 Table of Contents Randall-Story State Bank, Story City, Iowa. Randall-Story Bank is an Iowa, state-chartered, FDIC insured commercial bank. Randall-Story Bank was acquired by the Company in 1995 through a stock transaction whereby the then shareholders of Randall-Story Bank exchanged all their Randall-Story Bank stock for stock in the Company. Randall-Story Bank was organized in 1928 and provides full-service banking to Story City and the surrounding area. While its primary emphasis is in agricultural lending, Randall-Story Bank also provides the traditional lending services typically offered by community banks. The bank closed its office in Randall, Iowa in 2006 as the result of the community’s declining population base. As of December 31, 2008, Randall-Story Bank had capital of $8,242,000 and 12 full-time equivalent employees. Randall-Story Bank had net income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 of approximately $831,000, $969,000 and $902,000, respectively. Total assets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were approximately $78,199,000, $72,762,000 and $73,777,000, respectively. United Bank & Trust NA, Marshalltown, Iowa. United Bank is a nationally-chartered, commercial bank insured by the FDIC. It was newly chartered in June of 2002 and offers a broad range of deposit and loan products, as well as Internet banking and trust services to customers located in the Marshalltown and surrounding Marshall County area. As of December 31, 2008, United Bank had capital of $8,800,000 and 22 full-time equivalent employees. United Bank had net income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 of approximately $(87,000), $104,000 and $(58,000), respectively. Total assets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were approximately $99,441,000, $106,736,000 and $100,511,000, respectively. Business Strategy and Operations As a locally owned, multi-bank holding company, the Company emphasizes strong personal relationships to provide products and services that meet the needs of the Banks’ customers. The Company seeks to achieve growth and maintain a strong return on equity. To accomplish these goals, the Banks focus on small to medium size businesses that traditionally wish to develop an exclusive relationship with a single bank. The Banks, individually and collectively, have the size to give the personal attention required by business owners, in addition to the credit expertise to help businesses meet their goals. The Banks offer a full range of deposit services that are typically available in most financial institutions, including checking accounts, savings accounts and time deposits of various types, ranging from money market accounts to longer-term certificates of deposit. One major goal in developing the Banks' product mix is to keep the product offerings as simple as possible, both in terms of the number of products and the features and benefits of the individual services. The transaction accounts and time certificates are tailored to each Bank's principal market area at rates competitive in that Bank’s market. In addition, retirement accounts such as IRAs (Individual Retirement Accounts) are available. The FDIC insures all deposit accounts up to the maximum amount. The Banks solicit these accounts from small-to-medium sized businesses in their respective primary trade areas, and from individuals who live and/or work within these areas. No material portion of the Banks' deposits has been obtained from a single person or from a few persons. Therefore, the Company does not believe that the loss of the deposits of any person or of a few persons would have an adverse effect on the Banks' operations or erode their deposit base. 5 Table of Contents Loans are provided to creditworthy borrowers regardless of their race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, marital status, disability, receipt of public assistance or any other basis prohibited by law. The Banks intend to fulfill this commitment while maintaining prudent credit standards. In the course of fulfilling this obligation to meet the credit needs of the communities which they serve, the Banks give consideration to each credit application regardless of the fact that the applicant may reside in a low to moderate income neighborhood, and without regard to the geographic location of the residence, property or business within their market areas. The Banks provide innovative, quality financial products, such as Internet banking and trust services that meet the banking needs of their customers and communities. The loan programs and acceptance of certain loans may vary from time-to-time depending on the funds available and regulations governing the banking industry. The Banks offer all basic types of credit to their local communities and surrounding rural areas, including commercial, agricultural and consumer loans. The types of loans within these categories are as follows: Commercial Loans. Commercial loans are typically made to sole proprietors, partnerships, corporations and other business entities such as municipalities and individuals where the loan is to be used primarily for business purposes. These loans are typically secured by assets owned by the borrower and often times involve personal guarantees given by the owners of the business. The types of loans the Banks offer include: - financing guaranteed under Small Business Administration programs - operating and working capital loans - loans to finance equipment and other capital purchases - commercial real estate loans - business lines of credit - term loans - loans to professionals - letters of credit Agricultural Loans. The Banks, by nature of their location in central Iowa, are directly and indirectly involved in agriculture and agri-business lending. This includes short-term seasonal lending associated with cyclical crop and livestock production, intermediate term lending for machinery, equipment and breeding stock acquisition and long-term real estate lending. These loans are typically secured by the crops, livestock, equipment or real estate being financed. The basic tenet of the Banks' agricultural lending philosophy is a blending of strong, positive cash flow supported by an adequate collateral position, along with a demonstrated capacity to withstand short-term negative impact if necessary. Applicable governmental subsidies and affiliated programs are utilized if warranted to accomplish these parameters. Approximately 14% of the Banks' loans have been made for agricultural purposes. The Banks have not experienced a material adverse effect on their business as a result of defaults on agricultural loans and do not anticipate at the present time experiencing any such effect in the future. Consumer Loans. Consumer loans are typically available to finance home improvements and consumer purchases, such as automobiles, household furnishings, boats and education. These loans are made on both a secured and an unsecured basis. The following types of consumer loans are available: 6 Table of Contents - automobiles and trucks - boats and recreational vehicles - personal loans and lines of credit - home equity lines of credit - home improvement and rehabilitation loans - consumer real estate loans Other types of credit programs, such as loans to nonprofit organizations, to public entities, for community development and to other governmental offered programs also are available. First National, Boone Bank, State Bank and United Bank offer trust services typically found in a commercial bank with trust powers, including the administration of estates, conservatorships, personal and corporate trusts and agency accounts. The Banks also provide farm management, investment and custodial services for individuals, businesses and non-profit organizations. The Banks earn income from the origination of residential mortgages that are sold in the secondary real estate market without retaining the mortgage servicing rights. The Banks offer traditional banking services, such as safe deposit boxes, wire transfers, direct deposit of payroll and social security checks, automated teller machine access and automatic drafts (ACH) for various accounts. Credit Management The Company strives to achieve sound credit risk management. In order to achieve this goal, the Company has established uniform credit policies and underwriting criteria for the Banks’ loan portfolios. The Banks diversify in the types of loans offered and are subject to regular credit examinations, annual internal and external loan audits and annual review of large loans, as well as quarterly reviews of loans experiencing deterioration in credit quality. The Company attempts to identify potential problem loans early, charge off loans promptly and maintain an adequate allowance for loan losses. The Company has established credit guidelines for the Banks’ lending portfolios which include guidelines relating to the more commonly requested loan types, as follows: Commercial Real Estate Loans - Commercial real estate loans, including agricultural real estate loans, are normally based on loan to appraisal value ratios of 80% and secured by a first priority lien position. Loans are typically subject to interest rate adjustments no less frequently than 5 years from origination. Fully amortized monthly repayment terms normally do not exceed twenty years. Projections and cash flows that show ability to service debt within the amortization period are required. Property and casualty insurance is required to protect the Banks’ collateral interests. Commercial and agricultural real estate loans represent approximately 48% of the loan portfolio. Major risk factors for commercial real estate loans, as well as the other loan types described below, include a geographic concentration in central Iowa; the dependence of the local economy upon several large governmental entities, including Iowa State University and the Iowa Department of Transportation; and the health of Iowa’s agricultural sector that is dependent on weather conditions and government programs. 7 Table of Contents Commercial and Agricultural Operating Lines - These loans are made to businesses and farm operations with terms up to twelve months. The credit needs are generally seasonal with the source of repayment coming from the entity’s normal business cycle. Cash flow reviews are completed to establish the ability to service the debt within the terms of the loan. A first priority lien on the general assets of the business normally secures these types of loans. Loan to value limits vary and are dependent upon the nature and type of the underlying collateral and the financial strength of the borrower. Crop and hail insurance is required for most agricultural borrowers. Loans are generally guaranteed by the principal(s). Commercial and Agricultural Term Loans – These loans are made to businesses and farm operations to finance equipment, breeding stock and other capital expenditures. Terms are generally the lesser of five years or the useful life of the asset. Term loans are normally secured by the asset being financed and are often additionally secured with the general assets of the business. Loan to value is generally 75% of the cost or value of the assets. Loans are normally guaranteed by the principal(s). Commercial and agricultural operating and term loans represent approximately 26% of the loan portfolio. Residential First Mortgage Loans – Proceeds of these loans are used to buy or refinance the purchase of residential real estate with the loan secured by a first lien on the real estate. Most of the residential mortgage loans originated by the Banks (including servicing rights) are sold in the secondary mortgage market due to the higher interest rate risk inherent in the 15 and 30 year fixed rate terms consumers prefer. Loans that are originated and not sold in the secondary market generally have higher interest rates and have rate adjustment periods of no longer than seven years. The maximum amortization of first mortgage residential real estate loans is 30 years. The loan-to-value ratios normally do not exceed 80% without credit enhancements such as mortgage insurance. Property insurance is required on all loans to protect the Banks’ collateral position. Loans secured by one to four family residential properties represent approximately 21% of the loan portfolio. Home Equity Term Loans – These loans are normally for the purpose of home improvement or other consumer purposes and are secured by a junior mortgage on residential real estate. Loan-to-value ratios normally do not exceed 90% of market value. Home Equity Lines of Credit - The Banks offer a home equity line of credit with a maximum term of 60 months. These loans are secured by a junior mortgage on the residential real estate and normally do not exceed a loan-to-market value ratio of 90% with the interest adjusted quarterly. Consumer Loans – Consumer loans are normally made to consumers under the following guidelines. Automobiles - loans on new and used automobiles generally will not exceed 80% and 75% of the value, respectively. Recreational vehicles and boats - 66% of the value. Mobile home - maximum term on these loans is 180 months with the loan-to-value ratio generally not exceeding 66%. Each of these loans is secured by a first priority lien on the assets and requires insurance to protect the Banks’ collateral position. Unsecured - The term for unsecured loans generally does not exceed 12 months. Consumer and other loans represent approximately 5% of the loan portfolio. Employees At December 31, 2008, the Banks had a total of 180 full-time equivalent employees and the Company had an additional 12 full-time employees. The Company and Banks provide their employees with a comprehensive program of benefits, including comprehensive medical and dental plans, long-term and short-term disability coverage, and a 401(k) profit sharing plan. Management considers its relations with employees to be satisfactory. Unions represent none of the employees. 8 Table of Contents Market Area The Company operates five commercial banks with locations in Story, Boone, Polk and Marshall Counties in central Iowa. First National is located in Ames, Iowa with a population of 50,731. The major employers are Iowa State University, Ames Laboratories, Iowa Department of Transportation, Mary Greeley Medical Center, National Veterinary Services Laboratory, Ames Community Schools, City of Ames, Barilla, Sauer-Danfoss and McFarland Clinic. First National’s primary business includes providing retail banking services and business and consumer lending. First National has a minimum exposure to agricultural lending. Boone Bank is located in Boone, Iowa with a population of 12,800. Boone is the county seat of Boone County. The major employers are Fareway Stores, Inc., Patterson Dental Supply Co., Union Pacific Railroad, and Communication Data Services. Boone Bank provides lending services to the agriculture, commercial and real estate markets. State Bank is located in Nevada, Iowa with a population of 6,658. Nevada is the county seat of Story County. The major employers are Print Graphics, General Financial Supply, Central Iowa Printing, Burke Corporation and Almaco. State Bank provides various types of loans with a major agricultural presence. It provides a wide variety of banking services including trust, deposit, ATM, and merchant card processing. Randall-Story Bank is located in Story City, Iowa with a population of 3,228. The major employers are Bethany Manor, American Packaging, Precision Machine and Record Printing. Located in a major agricultural area, it has a strong presence in this type of lending. As a full service commercial bank it provides a full line of products and services. United Bank is located in Marshalltown, Iowa with a population of 26,123. The major employers are Swift & Co., Fisher Controls International, Lennox Industries and Marshalltown Medical & Surgical Center. The Bank offers a full line of loan, deposit, and trust services. Loan services include primarily commercial and consumer types of credit including operating lines, equipment loans, automobile financing and real estate loans. Competition The geographic market area served by the Banks is highly competitive with respect to both loans and deposits. The Banks compete principally with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage companies, finance divisions of auto and farm equipment companies, agricultural suppliers and other financial service providers. Some of these competitors are local, while others are statewide or nationwide. The major commercial bank competitors include F & M Bank, U.S. Bank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, each of which have a branch office or offices within the Banks’ primary trade areas. Among the advantages such larger banks have are their ability to finance extensive advertising campaigns and to allocate their investment assets to geographic regions of higher yield and demand. These larger banking organizations have much higher legal lending limits than the Banks and thus are better able to finance large regional, national and global commercial customers. 9 Table of Contents In order to compete with the other financial institutions in their primary trade areas, the Banks use, to the fullest extent possible, the flexibility which is accorded by independent status. This includes an emphasis on specialized services, local promotional activity and personal contacts by the Banks' officers, directors and employees. In particular, the Banks compete for deposits principally by offering depositors a wide variety of deposit programs, convenient office locations, hours and other services. The Banks compete for loans primarily by offering competitive interest rates, experienced lending personnel and quality products and services. As of December 31, 2008, there were 38 FDIC insured institutions having approximately 69 offices or branch offices within Boone, Story, Polk and Marshall County, Iowa where the Banks' offices are primarily located. First National, State Bank and Randall-Story Bank together have the largest percentage of deposits in Story County. The Banks also compete with the financial markets for funds. Yields on corporate and government debt securities and commercial paper affect the ability of commercial banks to attract and hold deposits. Commercial banks also compete for funds with equity, money market, and insurance products offered by brokerage and insurance companies. This competitive trend will likely continue in the future. The Company anticipates bank competition will continue to change materially over the next several years as more financial institutions, including the major regional and national banks, continue to consolidate. Credit unions, which are not subject to income taxes, have a significant competitive advantage and provide additional competition in the Company’s local markets. Supervision and Regulation The following discussion generally refers to certain statutes and regulations affecting the banking industry. These references provide brief summaries and therefore do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to those statutes and regulations. In addition, due to the numerous statutes and regulations that apply to and regulate the banking industry, many are not referenced below. Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”), giving the US Treasury authority to take certain actions to restore liquidity and stability to the U.S. banking markets. Based upon the authority contained in the EESA, a number of programs to implement the EESA have been announced. Those programs include the following: · Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). Pursuant to this program, the US Treasury, on behalf of the US government, will purchase up to $250 billion of preferred stock, along with warrants to purchase common stock, from certain financial institutions, including bank holding companies, savings and loan holding companies and banks or savings associations not controlled by a holding company. On publically traded financial institutions the investment will have a dividend rate of 5% per year, until the fifth anniversary of the US Treasury’s investment and a dividend of 9% thereafter. The Company did not participate in the CCP program. 10 Table of Contents · Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”). This program contains both a debt guarantee component, whereby the FDIC will guarantee until June 30, 2012, the senior unsecured debt issued by eligible financial institutions between October 14, 2008 and June 30, 2009, and an account transaction guarantee component, whereby the FDIC will insure 100% of non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts held at eligible financial institutions, such as payment processing accounts, payroll accounts and working capital accounts, through December 31, 2009. The Banks have opted out of the debt guarantee component and opted into the transaction guarantee component of this program. · Temporary increase in deposit insurance coverage. Pursuant to the EESA, the FDIC temporarily raised the basic limit on federal deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor, effective October 3, 2008. The EESA provides that the basic deposit insurance limit is currently scheduled to return to $100,000 after December 31, 2009. Given the current international, national and regional economic climate, it is unclear what effect the provisions of the EESA will have with respect to the profitability and operations of both the Company and the Banks. In addition, the US government, either through the US Treasury or some other federal agency, may also advance additional programs that could materially impact the profitability and operations of both the Company and the Banks. The failure of these governmental efforts to stabilize national and international markets could have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or access to the credit markets. US Treasury Department Report. In March 2008, the U.S. Treasury Department released a report containing short-, intermediate- and long-term recommendations to reform and modernize this country’s federal financial regulatory structure. With respect to the banking industry, the report recommended the elimination of the federal thrift charter and conversion to the national bank charter, with the Office of Thrift Supervision (the “OTS”) merging with and into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”), the federal agency that regulates national banks. On a longer term basis, the report also recommended a consolidation of the current functional regulation scheme for financial institutions into three distinct regulators: a market stability regulator (the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System); a prudent financial regulator (new); and a business conduct regulator (new). It is unclear whether and to what extent this proposal will be implemented in the future and the impact it will have upon the operations of both the Company and the Banks. USA Patriot Act. The USA Patriot Act was enacted in 2001 which, together with regulations issued pursuant to this act, substantially broadened previously existing anti-money laundering laws and regulations, increased compliance, due diligence and reporting obligations for financial institutions, created new crimes and penalties and required federal banking agencies, in reviewing mergers and other acquisition transactions, to consider the effectiveness of the parties in combating money laundering activities. The act requires all financial institutions to establish certain anti-money laundering compliance and due diligence programs that are reasonably designed to detect and report instances of money laundering. The Company believes its compliance policies, procedures and controls satisfy the material requirements of the Patriot Act and regulations. 11 Table of Contents Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act was enacted in 2002 to, among other things, increase corporate responsibility and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures pursuant to the federal securities laws. This act generally applies to all companies that are required to file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The act implements significant changes in the responsibilities of officers and directors of public companies and makes certain changes to the corporate reporting obligation of those companies and their external auditors. Among the requirements and prohibitions addressed by the act are certifications required by CEOs and CFOs of periodic reports filed with the SEC; accelerated reporting of stock transactions by directors, officers and large shareholders; prohibitions against personal loans from companies to directors and executive officers (except loans made in the ordinary course of business); requirements for public companies’ audit committees; requirements for auditor independence; the forfeiture of bonuses or other incentive-based compensation and profits from the sale of an issuer’s securities by directors and executive officers in the 12-month period following initial publication of any financial statements that later require restatement; various increased criminal penalties for violations of securities laws; and the creation of a public company accounting oversight board. Rules adopted by the SEC to implement various provisions of the act include CEO and CFO certifications related to fair presentation of financial statements and financial information in public filings, as well as management’s evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures; disclosure of whether any audit committee members qualify as a “financial expert”; disclosures related to audit committee composition and auditor pre-approval policies; disclosure related to adoption of a written code of ethics; reconciling non-GAAP financial information with GAAP in public communications; disclosure of off-balance sheet transactions; and disclosure related to director independence and the director nomination process. The Company has adopted modifications to its corporate governance procedures to comply with the provisions of the act and regulations. The Company and the Banks are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Regulation and supervision of financial institutions is primarily intended to protect depositors and the FDIC rather than shareholders of the Company. The laws and regulations affecting banks and bank holding companies have changed significantly over recent years, particularly with the passage of the Financial Services Modernization Act. There is reason to expect that similar changes will continue in the future. Any change in applicable laws, regulations or regulatory policies may have a material effect on the business, operations and prospects of the Company. The Company is unable to predict the nature or the extent of the effects on its business and earnings that any fiscal or monetary policies or new federal or state legislation may have in the future. The Company The Company is a bank holding company by virtue of its ownership of the Banks, and is registered as such with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve"). The Company is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHCA"), which subjects the Company and the Banks to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve. Under the BHCA, the Company files with the Federal Reserve annual reports of its operations and such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require. Source of Strength to the Banks. The Federal Reserve takes the position that a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks and may not conduct its operations in an unsafe or unsound manner. In addition, it is the Federal Reserve's position that in serving as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks, bank holding companies should use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to its subsidiary banks during periods of financial stress or adversity. It should also maintain the financial flexibility and capital raising capacity to obtain additional resources for providing assistance to its subsidiary banks. A bank holding company's failure to meet its obligations to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks will generally be considered by the Federal Reserve to be an unsafe and unsound banking practice or a violation of the Federal Reserve's regulations or both. 12 Table of Contents Federal Reserve Approval. Bank holding companies must obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before they: (i) acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting stock of any bank if, after such acquisition, they would own or control, directly or indirectly, more than 5% of the voting stock of such bank; (ii) merge or consolidate with another bank holding company; or (iii) acquire substantially all of the assets of any additional banks. Non-Banking Activities. With certain exceptions, the BHCA also prohibits bank holding companies from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of voting stock in any company other than a bank or a bank holding company unless the Federal Reserve finds the company's business to be incidental to the business of banking. When making this determination, the Federal Reserve in part considers whether allowing a bank holding company to engage in those activities would offer advantages to the public that would outweigh possible adverse effects. A bank holding company may engage in permissible non-banking activities on a de novo basis, if the holding company meets certain criteria and notifies the Federal Reserve within ten (10) business days after the activity has commenced. Under the Financial Services Modernization Act, eligible bank holding companies may elect (with the approval of the Federal Reserve) to become a "financial holding company." Financial holding companies are permitted to engage in certain financial activities through affiliates that had previously been prohibited activities for bank holding companies. Such financial activities include securities and insurance underwriting and merchant banking. At this time, the Company has not elected to become a financial holding company, but may choose to do so at some time in the future. Control Transactions. The Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, requires a person or group of persons acquiring "control" of a bank holding company to provide the Federal Reserve with at least 60 days prior written notice of the proposed acquisition. Following receipt of this notice, the Federal Reserve has 60 days to issue a notice disapproving the proposed acquisition, but the Federal Reserve may extend this time period for up to another 30 days. An acquisition may be completed before the disapproval period expires if the Federal Reserve issues written notice of its intent not to disapprove the action. Under a rebuttable presumption established by the Federal Reserve, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting stock of a bank holding company with a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, would constitute the acquisition of control. In addition, any "company" would be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve under the BHCA before acquiring 25% (or 5% if the "company" is a bank holding company) or more of the outstanding shares of the Company, or otherwise obtain control over the Company. Affiliate Transactions. The Company and the Banks are deemed affiliates within the meaning of the Federal Reserve Act, and transactions between affiliates are subject to certain restrictions. Generally, the Federal Reserve Act: (i) limits the extent to which the financial institution or its subsidiaries may engage in "covered transactions" with an affiliate; and (ii) requires all transactions with an affiliate, whether or not "covered transactions," to be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution or subsidiary, as those provided to a non-affiliate. The term "covered transaction" includes the making of loans, purchase of assets, issuance of a guarantee and similar transactions. 13 Table of Contents State Law on Acquisitions. Iowa law permits bank holding companies to make acquisitions throughout the state. However, Iowa currently has a deposit concentration limit of 15% on the amount of deposits in the state that any one banking organization can control and continue to acquire banks or bank deposits (by acquisitions), which applies to all depository institutions doing business in Iowa. Banking Subsidiaries Applicable federal and state statutes and regulations governing a bank's operations relate, among other matters, to capital adequacy requirements, required reserves against deposits, investments, loans, legal lending limits, certain interest rates payable, mergers and consolidations, borrowings, issuance of securities, payment of dividends, establishment of branches and dealings with affiliated persons. First National and United Bank are national banks subject to primary federal regulation and supervision by the OCC. The FDIC, as an insurer of the deposits, also has some limited regulatory authority over First National and United Bank. State Bank, Boone Bank and Randall-Story Bank are state banks subject to regulation and supervision by the Iowa Division of Banking. The three state Banks are also subject to regulation and examination by the FDIC, which insures their respective deposits to the maximum extent permitted by law. The federal laws that apply to the Banks regulate, among other things, the scope of their business, their investments, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of deposited funds and the nature and amount of and collateral for loans. The laws and regulations governing the Banks generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC and not to protect stockholders of such institutions or their holding companies. The OCC and FDIC each have authority to prohibit banks under their supervision from engaging in what it considers to be an unsafe and unsound practice in conducting their business. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA") requires federal banking regulators to adopt regulations or guidelines in a number of areas to ensure bank safety and soundness, including internal controls, credit underwriting, asset growth, management compensation, ratios of classified assets to capital and earnings. FDICIA also contains provisions which are intended to change independent auditing requirements, restrict the activities of state-chartered insured banks, amend various consumer banking laws, limit the ability of "undercapitalized banks" to borrow from the Federal Reserve's discount window, require regulators to perform periodic on-site bank examinations and set standards for real estate lending. Borrowing Limitations. Each of the Banks is subject to limitations on the aggregate amount of loans that it can make to any one borrower, including related entities. Subject to numerous exceptions based on the type of loans and collateral, applicable statutes and regulations generally limit loans to one borrower of 15% of total equity and reserves. Each of the Banks is in compliance with applicable loans to one borrower requirements. FDIC Insurance. The FDIC temporarily raised the basic limit on federal deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor, effective October 3, 2008. The basic deposit insurance limit is currently scheduled to return to $100,000 after December 31, 2009. Generally, under the permanent FDIC limits, customer deposit accounts in banks are insured by the FDIC for up to a maximum amount of $100,000 for single accounts, $250,000 for self-directed retirement accounts, $100,000 for joint accounts, and $100,000 for qualifying revocable trust accounts. The FDIC has adopted a risk-based insurance assessment system under which depository institutions contribute funds to the FDIC insurance fund based on their risk classification. The FDIC may terminate the deposit insurance of any insured depository institution if it determines after an administrative hearing that the institution has engaged or is engaging in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law. On October 16, 2008, the FDIC developed a restoration plan to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund over a period of five years and to increase the deposit insurance reserve ratio to the statutory minimum of 1.15% of insured deposits by December 13, 2013. To implement this plan, the FDIC has proposed to change its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. Effective only for the first quarter of 2009, the FDIC deposit assessment rates have been increased by 7 basis points. Other changes to the system would include increased premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits and for excessive use of secured liabilities. The FDIC would also lower premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC: (1) adopted a final rule modifying the risk-based assessment system and setting initial base assessment rates beginning April 1, 2009, at 12 to 45 basis points; (2) due to extraordinary circumstances, extended the period of the restoration plan to seven years; and (3) adopted an interim rule with request for comments imposing an emergency 20 basis point special assessment on June 30, 2009, which will be collected on September 30, 2009, and allowing the FDIC to impose possible additional special assessments of up to 10 basis points thereafter to maintain public confidence in the Deposit Insurance Fund. FDIC Chairman Sheila Bair announced on March 5, 2009 that the FDIC intends to cut the agency’s planned special emergency assessment in half, from 20 to 10 basis points, provided that Congress clears legislation expanding the FDIC’s line of credit with Treasury to $100 billion. 14 Table of Contents Capital Adequacy Requirements. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC (collectively, the "Agencies") have adopted risk-based capital guidelines for banks and bank holding companies that are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies and account for off-balance sheet items. Failure to achieve and maintain adequate capital levels may give rise to supervisory action through the issuance of a capital directive to ensure the maintenance of required capital levels. Each of the Banks is in compliance with applicable risk-based capital level requirements as of December 31, 2008. The current guidelines require all federally regulated banks to maintain a minimum risk-based total capital ratio equal to 8%, of which at least 4% must be Tier 1 capital. Tier 1 capital includes common shareholders' equity, qualifying perpetual preferred stock and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, but excludes goodwill and most other intangibles and the allowance for loan and lease losses. Tier 2 capital includes the excess of any preferred stock not included in Tier 1 capital, mandatory convertible securities, hybrid capital instruments, subordinated debt and intermediate term preferred stock, 45% of unrealized gain of equity securities and general reserve for loan and lease losses up to 1.25% of risk weighted assets Under these guidelines, banks' assets are given risk weights of 0%, 20%, 50% or 100%. Most loans are assigned to the 100% risk category, except for first mortgage loans fully secured by residential property and, under certain circumstances, residential construction loans (both carry a 50% rating). Most investment securities are assigned to the 20% category, except for municipal or state revenue bonds (which have a 50% rating) and direct obligations of or obligations guaranteed by the United States Treasury or United States Government Agencies (which have a 0% rating). 15 Table of Contents The Agencies have also implemented a leverage ratio, which is equal to Tier 1 capital as a percentage of average total assets less intangibles, to be used as a supplement to the risk based guidelines. The principal objective of the leverage ratio is to limit the maximum degree to which a bank may leverage its equity capital base. The minimum required leverage ratio for top rated institutions is 3%, but most institutions are required to maintain an additional cushion of at least 100 to 200 basis points. Any institution operating at or near the 3% level is expected to be a strong banking organization without any supervisory, financial or operational weaknesses or deficiencies. Any institutions experiencing or anticipating significant growth would be expected to maintain capital ratios, including tangible capital positions, well above the minimum levels. Prompt Corrective Action. Regulations adopted by the Agencies impose even more stringent capital requirements. The FDIC and other Agencies must take certain "prompt corrective action" when a bank fails to meet capital requirements. The regulations establish and define five capital levels: (i) "well-capitalized," (ii) "adequately capitalized," (iii) "undercapitalized," (iv) "significantly undercapitalized" and (v) "critically undercapitalized." Increasingly severe restrictions are imposed on the payment of dividends and management fees, asset growth and other aspects of the operations of institutions that fall below the category of being "adequately capitalized". Undercapitalized institutions are required to develop and implement capital plans acceptable to the appropriate federal regulatory agency. Such plans must require that any company that controls the undercapitalized institution must provide certain guarantees that the institution will comply with the plan until it is adequately capitalized. As of December 31, 2008 each of the Banks was categorized as “well capitalized” under regulatory prompt corrective action provisions. Restrictions on Dividends. The dividends paid to the Company by the Banks are the major source of Company cash flow. Various federal and state statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends banking subsidiaries are permitted to pay to their holding companies without regulatory approval. Federal Reserve policy further limits the circumstances under which bank holding companies may declare dividends. For example, a bank holding company should not continue its existing rate of cash dividends on its common stock unless its net income is sufficient to fully fund each dividend and its prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with its capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued policy statements which provide that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. Federal and state banking regulators may also restrict the payment of dividends by order. First National Bank, as a national bank, generally may pay dividends, without obtaining the express approval of the OCC, in an amount up to its retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years plus retained net profits up to the date of any dividend declaration in the current calendar year. Retained net profits as defined by the OCC, consists of net income less dividends declared during the period. Currently, First National Bank is unable to pay dividends under the foregoing standard without the OCC’s approval and does not plan to seek such approval in 2009. Boone Bank, Randall-Story Bank and State Bank are also restricted under Iowa law to paying dividends only out of their undivided profits. Additionally, the payment of dividends by the Banks is affected by the requirement to maintain adequate capital pursuant to applicable capital adequacy guidelines and regulations, and the Banks generally are prohibited from paying any dividends if, following payment thereof, the Bank would be undercapitalized. 16 Table of Contents Reserves Against Deposits. The Federal Reserve requires all depository institutions to maintain reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily checking accounts) and non-personal time deposits. Generally, reserves of 3% must be maintained against total transaction accounts of $43,900,000 or less (subject to an exemption not in excess of the first $9,300,000 of transaction accounts). A reserve of $1,317,000 plus 10% of amounts in excess of $43,900,000 must be maintained in the event total transaction accounts exceed $43,900,000. The balances maintained to meet the reserve requirements imposed by the Federal Reserve may be used to satisfy applicable liquidity requirements. Because required reserves must be maintained in the form of vault cash or a noninterest bearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank, the effect of this reserve requirement is to reduce the earning assets of the Banks. Regulatory Enforcement Authority The enforcement powers available to federal and state banking regulators are substantial and include, among other things, the ability to assess civil monetary penalties, to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. In general, enforcement actions must be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. Other actions, or inactions, may provide the basis for enforcement action, including misleading or untimely reports filed with regulatory authorities. Applicable law also requires public disclosure of final enforcement actions by the federal banking agencies. National Monetary Policies In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, the earnings and growth of the Banks are affected by the regulatory authorities’ policies, including the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply, credit conditions and interest rates. Among the instruments used to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. Government securities, changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits and the Federal Reserve Discount Rate, which is the rate, charged member banks to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits, and their use may also affect interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve have had a material impact on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to have a similar impact in the future. Also important in terms of effect on banks are controls on interest rates paid by banks on deposits and types of deposits that may be offered by banks. The Depository Institutions Deregulation Committee, created by Congress in 1980, phased out ceilings on the rate of interest that may be paid on deposits by commercial banks and savings and loan associations, with the result that the differentials between the maximum rates banks and savings and loans can pay on deposit accounts have been eliminated. The effect of deregulation of deposit interest rates has been to increase banks' cost of funds and to make banks more sensitive to fluctuation in market rates. 17 Table of Contents Availability of Information on Company Website The Company files periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. The Company makes available on or through its website free of charge all periodic reports filed by the Company with the SEC, including any amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been electronically filed with the SEC. The address of the Company’s website on the Internet is: www.amesnational.com. The Company will provide a paper copy of these reports free of charge upon written or telephonic request directed to John P. Nelson, Vice President and Secretary, 405 Fifth Street, Ames, Iowa 50010 or (515) 232-6251 or by email request at info@amesnational.com. The information found on the Company’s website is not part of this or any other report the Company files with the SEC. 18 Table of Contents Executive Officers of Company and Banks The following table sets forth summary information about the executive officers of the Company and certain executive officers of the Banks. Unless otherwise indicated, each executive officer has served in his current position for the past five years. Name Age Position with the Company or Bank and Principal Occupation and Employment During the Past Five Years Kathy L. Baker 62 Named President and Director of United Bank on January 1, 2008. Previously served as a Vice President in the lending department of United Bank. Scott T. Bauer 46 Named President of First National Bank in 2007. Previously served as Executive Vice President and Senior Vice President of First National Bank. Kevin G. Deardorff 54 Vice President & Technology Director of the Company. Daniel L. Krieger 72 Chairman of the Company since 2003 and President of Company from 1997 to 2007. Also serves as a Director of the Company, Chairman of the Board and Trust Officer of First National and Chairman of the Board of Boone Bank. Previously served as President of First National and Chairman of the Board of United Bank. Stephen C. McGill 54 President of State Bank since 2003. Previously served as Senior Vice President of State Bank. Director of State Bank & Trust Co. John P. Nelson 42 Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer of Company. Also serves as Director of Randall-Story Bank. Thomas H. Pohlman 58 Named President of the Company in 2007. Previously served as Chief Operating Officer of the Company in 2006 and President of First National from 1999 to 2007. Director of the Company and First National Bank, State Bank & Trust Co and United Bank. Jeffrey K. Putzier 47 President of Boone Bank since 1999. Director of Boone Bank & Trust Co. Rick J. Schreier 41 Named President of Randall Story Bank in May, 2008. Also serves as a director at Randall-Story State Bank. Previously served as Senior Vice President of lending at Randall-Story Bank and State Bank. Terrill L. Wycoff 65 Executive Vice President of First National since 2000. Director of First National Bank. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below is a description of risk factors related to the Company’s business, provided to enable investors to assess, and be appropriately apprised of, certain risks and uncertainties the Company faces in conducting its business. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere in this Report, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are also applicable to forward-looking statements contained in this Report and in other reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. General Business, Economic and Political Conditions. The Company’s earnings and financial condition are affected by general business, economic and political conditions. For example, a depressed economic environment increases the likelihood of lower employment levels and recession, which could adversely affect the Company’s earnings and financial condition. General business and economic conditions that could affect the Company include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and the strength of the national and local economies in which the Company operates. Political conditions can also affect the Company’s earnings through the introduction of new regulatory schemes and changes in tax laws. In particular, the latter half of 2007 and 2008 saw many negative developments in the financial services industry which have caused significant uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets in general. Additionally, the severe economic downturn that began in the fourth quarter of 2008 has continued into 2009 and threatens to undermine business and commercial activity on a global basis. As a consequence of this recession, a wide range of industries face serious challenges, mostly related to reduced consumer confidence and an extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. The current economic downturn has caused many lending institutions to experience declines in the performance of their loans. Additionally, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. Added to this, the values of real estate collateral supporting mortgage loans have declined and may continue to do so, providing less security for those loans. Across the industry, bank holding companies and bank stock prices have fallen, as has the ability of banks to raise capital and borrow. Because of the uncertainty and upheaval within the financial markets and industry, there is a potential for new federal and/or state laws and regulations regarding lending, funding and liquidity practices of banks. Any new legislation or regulations could negatively impact the Company’s operations. In addition, further negative market developments may continue to undermine consumer confidence levels and cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing an increase in delinquencies and default rates, which in turn may impact the Company’s charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. A worsening of these market conditions could exacerbate their already adverse effect on the Company and the Banks and others in the financial services industry. In response to the deterioration in economic conditions, the federal government has enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), giving the U.S. Treasury authority to take certain actions to restore liquidity and stability to the U.S. banking markets. Based on the authority contained in the EESA, a number of programs have been announced, including the Capital Purchase Program under which the U.S. Treasury will purchase up to $250 billion of preferred stock from certain financial institutions that apply and are accepted to participate in the program. There can be no assurance, however, that the EESA and other recently enacted government programs will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. The failure of the EESA and other programs to stabilize the financial markets, together with a continuing deterioration of the national and global economies in general, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Loans A significant source of risk for the Company arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The Company has underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that management believes are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying the Company’s loan portfolio. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect results of operations. During 2008, the Company’s allowance for loan losses and its level of impaired loans increased by 17.3% and 19.4%, respectively, over 2007 figures, and these amounts may continue to increase during 2009 as the economic downturn impacts the Company’s borrowers. Bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses, an increase in loans considered to be “impaired” or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on current economic conditions. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Equity Securities A substandard performance in the Company’s equity portfolio could lead to a reduction in the historical level of realized security gains and also lead to other than temporary impairments, thereby negatively impacting the Company’s earnings, as occurred during 2008. The Company invests capital that may be utilized for future expansion in a portfolio of primarily financial stocks which, as of December 31, 2008, had an estimated fair market value of approximately $8 million. The Company focuses on stocks that have historically paid dividends in an effort to lessen the negative effects of a bear market. The strategy, however, did not prove successful in 2008 as problems in the residential mortgage industry caused a significant decline in the market value of the Company’s financial stocks. Unrealized losses in the Company’s equity portfolio totaled $1.0 million (at the holding company level on an unconsolidated basis) as of December 31, 2008, after recognizing realized gains of $3.2 million in the portfolio during the year, as compared to unrealized gains of $3.3 million (at the holding company level on an unconsolidated basis) as of December 31, 2007, after recognizing realized gains of $1.4 million during 2007. In addition, the Company recognized impairment losses of approximately $8.5 million in its equity portfolio during 2008 in connection with the impairment of Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) preferred stock. Due to the severe economic downturn, the Company’s financial stocks have continued to lose value during the first quarter of 2009 and it is reasonably possible that the Company may incur impairment losses in 2009 which, as in 2008, would have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings for the year. 21 Table of Contents Debt Securities A substandard performance in the Company’s debt securities portfolio could negatively impact the Company’s earnings. The Company has invested in state and political subdivisions, U.S. government mortgage-backed securities, corporate bonds, U.S. government agencies and U.S. treasuries. The Company incurred impairment losses of approximately $3.6 million in its debt securities portfolio during 2008 and it is reasonably possible that the Company may incur impairment losses on its debt securities during 2009 if economic conditions continue to deteriorate and adversely impact the issuers of the Company’s debt securities. Any impairment losses on debt securities would have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings for the year. Other Real Estate Owned “Other real estate owned” consists of real estate collateral that the Company has received in foreclosure, or accepted in lieu of foreclosure, of impaired loans. The value of the Company’s holdings of other real estate owned significantly increased from $2.8 million in 2007 to $13.3 million in 2008, primarily due to the foreclosure of a development loan secured by commercial real estate. An independent appraisal confirms the fair market value of the other real estate owned and supports the carrying value of this asset on the Company’s balance sheet. Valuations will be performed periodically by management with respect to current and any future other real estate owned, and any subsequent write-downs will be recorded as a charge to operations, if necessary, to reduce the carrying value of a property to the lower of its cost or fair value less cost to sell. Due to potential changes in economic conditions, it is reasonably possible that changes in fair values will occur in the near term and that such changes could materially affect the amounts reported in the Company’s financial statements. Rising Interest Rates Although interest rates declined in the latter part of 2008 and will likely remain at historically low levels during 2009, any increase in interest rates that may occur in connection with the recovery of the economy could negatively impact the Company’s net interest margin if interest expense increases more quickly than interest income. The Company’s earning assets (primarily its loan and investment portfolio) have longer maturities than its interest bearing liabilities (primarily its deposits and other borrowings). Therefore, in a rising interest rate environment, interest expense will increase more quickly than interest income, as the interest bearing liabilities reprice more quickly than earning assets. In response to this challenge, the Banks model quarterly the changes in income that would result from various changes in interest rates. Management believes Bank earning assets have the appropriate maturity and repricing characteristics to optimize earnings and the Banks’ interest rate risk positions. Liquidity Risk Maintaining adequate liquidity is essential to the banking business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowing, sale of securities or other sources could have a substantial negative impact on the Company’s liquidity. Access to funding sources in amounts necessary to finance the Company’s activities or with terms that are acceptable to the Company could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Company’s access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of the Company’s business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets or adverse regulatory action against the Company. The Company’s ability to borrow could be impaired by factors such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations of the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil facing the industry. 22 Table of Contents Although the Company’s current sources of funds are adequate for its liquidity needs, there can be no assurance in this regard for the future. If additional debt is needed in the future, there can be no assurance that such debt would be available or, if available, would be on favorable terms. The ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets has been negatively affected by recent economic conditions. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be adversely affected. Customer Concern over Deposit Insurance With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits, if they were to occur, could adversely affect the Company’s funding costs and net income. Increase in Deposit Insurance Premium On October 16, 2008, the FDIC developed a restoration plan to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund over a period of five years and to increase the deposit insurance reserve ratio to the statutory minimum of 1.15% of insured deposits by December 31, 2013. To implement this plan, the FDIC has proposed to change its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. Effective only for the first quarter of 2009, the FDIC deposit assessment rates have been increased by 7 basis points. Other changes to the system would include increased premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits and for excessive use of secured liabilities. The FDIC would also lower premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC: (1) adopted a final rule modifying the risk-based assessment system and setting initial base assessment rates beginning April 1, 2009, at 12 to 45 basis points; (2) due to extraordinary circumstances, extended the period of the restoration plan to seven years; and (3) adopted an interim rule with request for comments imposing an emergency 20 basis point special assessment on June 30, 2009, which will be collected on September 30, 2009, and allowing the FDIC to impose possible additional special assessments of up to 10 basis points thereafter to maintain public confidence in the Deposit Insurance Fund. FDIC Chairman Sheila Bair announced on March 5, 2009 that the FDIC intends to cut the agency’s planned special emergency assessment in half, from 20 to 10 basis points, provided that Congress clears legislation expanding the FDIC’s line of credit with Treasury to $100 billion. Any increase in the risk category of the Banks or any increase in the base assessment rates, or the imposition of any special assessments, would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s earnings. 23 Table of Contents Concentration of Operations The Company’s operations are concentrated in central Iowa. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Company’s results may correlate to the economic conditions in this area, which were adversely impacted by the general decline in economic and market activity experienced during the latter portion of 2008. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions, particularly in the industries on which this area depends (including agriculture which, in turn, is dependent upon weather conditions and government support programs), may adversely affect the quality of the Company’s loan portfolio and the demand for the Company’s products and services, and accordingly, its financial condition and results of operations. Competition with Larger Financial Institutions The banking and financial services business in the Company’s market area continues to be a competitive field and is becoming more competitive as a result of: · changes in regulations; · changes in technology and product delivery systems; and · the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. It may be difficult to compete effectively in the Company’s market, and results of operations could be adversely affected by the nature or pace of change in competition. The Company competes for loans, deposits and customers with various bank and non-bank financial services providers, many of which are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services. Trading Volume The trading volume in the Company’s common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market is relatively limited compared to those of larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the Nasdaq Global Markets, the New York Stock Exchange or other consolidated reporting systems or stock exchanges. A change in the supply or demand for the Company’s common stock may have a more significant impact on the price of the Company’s stock than for more actively traded companies. Technological Advances The financial services industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success will depend, in part, on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company to invest in technological improvements. 24 Table of Contents Government Regulations Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect the Company’s operations. The Company and its Banks are subject to extensive supervision of, and examination by, federal and state regulatory authorities which may limit the Company’s growth and the return to our shareholders by restricting certain activities, such as: · the payment of dividends to the Company’s shareholders; · the payment of dividends to the Company from the Banks; · possible mergers with or acquisitions of or by other institutions; · investment policies; · loans and interest rates on loans; · interest rates paid on deposits; · expansion of branch offices; and/or · the possibility to provide or expand securities or trust services. The Company cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that any changes may have on future business and earnings prospects. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect the Company’s net income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has not received any written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports filed in 2008 under the Exchange Act. 