D. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Relating to Our Company and the Taiwan Telecommunications Industry We were privatized in August 2005, so we have a limited history of operations as a non-state-owned enterprise. We may not enjoy the benefits of privatization as quickly as we anticipate or at the level that we expect. Before we were privatized in August 2005, our business and operations were subject to extensive regulation under Republic of China laws, rules and regulations applicable to state-owned enterprises. As a result, we only have a very limited history of operations as a non-state-owned enterprise. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving the benefits we expect from our privatization, such as increased management flexibility in implementing measures to improve our cost structure, efficient operations of our business and expansion into new businesses in a timely manner or at all. Factors that may cause the actual benefits we may enjoy from privatization to deviate from our expectations include: • adverse developments in our relations with our labor union that affect our costs, including with respect to compensation and other benefits, and efficient management of our workforce; • increased costs with respect to our plans to incentivize employees through contributions to employee child education funds, performance-based cash bonuses and company subsidized purchases by employees of our common shares; 4 Table of Contents • changes in regulations affecting us following our privatization; and • the speed with which we are able to implement more efficient procurement and other management systems, and the resulting levels of cost savings. Extensive regulation of our industry may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions and competition, and our business may suffer. As a telecommunications service provider in Taiwan, we are subject to extensive regulation. Any changes in the regulatory environment applicable to us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Prior to March 1, 2006, we were under the supervision of the Ministry of Transportation and Communications and the Directorate General of Telecommunications. On March 1, 2006, the National Communications Commission was formed in accordance with the National Communications Commission Organization Law, or Organization Law, which was intended to transfer regulatory authority over the Taiwan telecommunications industry from the Ministry of Transportation and Communications and the Directorate General of Telecommunications to the National Communications Commission. The National Communications Commission is currently comprised of nine commissioners who have been recommended by the government and opposition political parties in the Legislative Yuan, as well as recommended by the Executive Yuan and approved by the Legislative Yuan. However, the Executive Yuan considered the composition of the National Communications Commission unconstitutional and petitioned the Grand Justices of the Republic of China, or the Grand Justices, to interpret the constitutionality of the formation of the National Communications Commission and the procedure for nominating commissioners to serve on the National Communications Commission. On July 21, 2006, the Grand Justices rendered an interpretation and held that the relevant provisions under the Organization Law as to the nomination procedures for the commissioners of the National Communications Commission were unconstitutional. However, the Grand Justices granted a grace period allowing such provisions of the Organization Law to remain in effect until December 31, 2008. Consequently, the National Communications Commission will have the authority at least until the end of 2008. As of the date of this annual report, the Ministry of Transportation and Communications is responsible for determining the policies for the telecommunications industry while the National Communications Commission is responsible for supervising the telecommunications industry and maintaining fair competition. Any changes in the regulatory environment applicable to us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been designated by the government as a dominant provider of fixed line and cellular services within the meaning of applicable telecommunications regulations, and as a result, we are subject to special additional requirements imposed by the National Communications Commission. For example, the regulation governing setting and changing of tariffs allows non-dominant telecommunications service providers greater freedom to set and change tariffs within the range set by the government. If we are unable to respond effectively to tariff changes by our competitors, then our competitiveness, market position and profitability will be materially and adversely affected. We were subject to the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. prior to our privatization. Although we have been privatized, the Legislative Yuan has not yet abolished the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd., and at this time, the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. is still applicable to us. Under the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd., the Ministry of Transportation and Communications has the authority to regulate aspects of our business. Any such regulation could be burdensome or conflict with regulations of the National Communications Commission or may otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The regulatory framework within which we operate may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions, competition or changes in our cost structure. In particular, future decreases in tariff policies and rates could immediately and substantially decrease our revenues. In particular, as a Type I service provider under the 5 Table of Contents Telecommunications Act, we are constrained in our ability to raise tariffs. Furthermore, the National Communications Commission adopted a price reduction plan on December 12, 2006 and is considering a number of changes to the tariff structures relating to our local telephone, cellular and leased line services. See “Item 5 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Tariff Adjustments”. In addition, we operate our businesses with approvals and licenses granted by the government. If these approvals or licenses are revoked or suspended or are not renewed, or if we are unable to obtain any additional licenses that we may need to operate or expand our business in the manner we desire, then our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our prospects, will suffer. For example, in April 2007, the National Communications Commission began to accept license applications according to the Regulation Governing the Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access, or WiMAX, and announced that it planned to issue six WiMAX licenses. WiMAX is a standards-based technology providing high-speed mobile data and telecommunications services and enabling wireless delivery of last mile broadband access as an alternative to cable and digital subscriber line. We may be unable to obtain a WiMAX license that we may need to provide the next generation telecommunication services. Increasing competition resulting from the ongoing liberalization of the Taiwan telecommunications industry or from alternative means of communication may materially and adversely affect our growth and profitability by causing us to lose customers, charge lower tariffs or spend more on marketing. We have faced increasing competition from new entrants in the Taiwan telecommunications market in recent years. In particular, multiple licenses to operate fixed line, cellular, paging and other services have been issued by the Republic of China government since 1996. Furthermore, three additional operators began providing fixed line services in June 2001, and licenses were granted to four undersea cable operators to engage in the undersea cable leased-circuit business in August 2001. In addition, the government awarded third generation, or 3G, cellular services concessions to five companies in February 2002, including two new cellular operators. Since early 2004, the government has also issued four mobile virtual network operator licenses that allow operators without a spectrum allocation to provide cellular services by leasing the network capacity and facilities from a licensed cellular service provider. We also face increased competition from local loop unbundling. We first entered into agreements regarding local loop unbundling of voice with New Century InfoComm Tech. Co., Ltd., or Sparq, in March 2004, and with Taiwan Fixed Network and Asia Pacific Broadband Telecom in May 2004. We subsequently entered into an agreement for full local loop unbundling of both voice and data with Sparq in July 2005. In January 2007, the National Communications Commission requested each dominant integrated services operator, including us, to reserve fifteen percent of its local loop for leasing to other service operators unless the then remaining available local loop of the operator not leased out is less than fifteen percent, in which case the operator should reserve such remaining loop. In addition, the National Communications Commission had defined the local loop as facilities “at the bottleneck of telecommunications networks” in accordance with the Regulations Governing Fixed Network Telecommunications Businesses The National Communications Commission further amended the Administrative Rules for Network Interconnection Between Telecommunication Service Providers in April 2007 which provides that we can only charge other local telephone service providers at cost for local loop services instead of on the basis of commercial negotiations. Many of our competitors are in alliances with leading international telecommunications service providers and have access to financial and other resources or technologies that may not be available to us. Moreover, as the government continues to liberalize the telecommunications market, such as through the issuance of new licenses or establishment of additional networks, our market position and competitiveness could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the focus of competition among cellular service providers in Taiwan has been shifting, as companies that traditionally offered second generation services, such as us, began offering 3G services, and as new 3G service providers started to enter the market. As a result, we expect competition in 3G services to continue to intensify. We may also be subject to competition from providers of new telecommunications services 6 Table of Contents as a result of technological development and the convergence of various telecommunications services. In particular, as a result of technological innovations and other factors, we have been facing competition from alternative means of communication, including voice over internet protocol, or VoIP, high-speed cable internet service, cable telephony, e-mail and wireless services. Providers of these products and services include cable television companies, direct broadcast satellite companies and digital subscriber line, or DSL, resellers. Increasing competition may also cause the rate of our customer growth to reverse or decline, bring about further decreases in tariff rates and necessitate increases in our selling and promotional expenses. Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our business growth and profitability, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain a good relationship with our labor union, work stoppages or labor unrest could occur and the quality of our services as well as our reputation could suffer. As of the date of this annual report, almost all of our employees were members of our principal labor union. Since our incorporation in 1996, we have experienced disputes with our labor union on such issues as employee benefits and retirement benefits in connection with our privatization as well as the right to protest. In particular, our labor union initiated a demonstration in August 2000 to express concerns over job security after our privatization. Furthermore, following our failure to sign the collective agreement proposed by the labor union, the union resolved on December 5, 2004 to hold strikes anytime before our privatization. In response to our proposed privatization, the labor union held a strike on May 17, 2005. The labor union also strongly opposed our privatization and has threatened to launch a nationwide strike or take other forms of action to hinder our privatization. In addition, one of our directors has been designated by the Republic of China government as a labor union representative on our board. Any deterioration of our relationship with our labor union could result in work stoppages, strikes or threats to take such an action, which could disrupt our business and operations, and materially and adversely affect the quality of our services and harm our reputation. The latest collective bargaining agreement, which was entered into between us and our labor union on January 6, 2006 and commenced in effect from March 3, 2006, will result in us having to incur higher costs in connection with the implementation of certain incentive programs, including employee skill development programs, as well as employee child education funds, company subsidized share purchases by employees, and discretionary, performance-based cash bonuses. We cannot accurately quantify the increase in costs at this time, but we expect that it may be material. Changes in technology may render our current technologies obsolete or require us to obtain licenses for introducing new services or make substantial capital investments, financing for which may not be available to us on favorable commercial terms. The Taiwan telecommunications industry has been characterized by rapid increases in the diversity and sophistication of the technologies and services offered. As a result, we expect that we will need to constantly upgrade our telecommunications technologies and services in order to respond to competitive industry conditions and customer requirements. Developments of new technologies have rendered some less advanced technologies unpopular or obsolete. For example, demand for our paging services has declined significantly since the introduction of GSM services, improvements in other technologies and changes in the market. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of NT$343 million (US$10.5 million) relating to our paging business in 2005. If we fail to develop, or to obtain timely access to, new technologies and equipment, or if we fail to obtain the necessary licenses to provide services using these new technologies, we may lose our customers and market share and become less profitable. For example, we began offering multimedia on demand, or MOD, services in March 2004. Although we were not, and are not, in compliance with some applicable ownership restrictions under the Cable Radio and Television Law of the Republic of China, or the Cable Radio and Television Law, we were nevertheless granted a permit as a fixed line operator to offer cable television services by the Government Information Office, the regulatory authority previously governing the cable television industry. In January 2007, the National Communications Commission, after reviewing our improvement in opening of platform of the MOD 7 Table of Contents service, held that we had complied with the request in its order and therefore we would not be considered a cable, radio or television system operator under the Cable Radio and Television Law with respect to this business. Consequently, we are not currently subject to such ownership restrictions. However, the National Communications Commission did announce that it would further amend the Regulation Governing Fixed Line Services in order to regulate the MOD service provided by fixed line operators and would then ask us to submit our operation rules, tariff and service agreement for MOD services for its review. We cannot predict the outcome of this review and cannot assure you that further amendments would not subject us to ownership restrictions or other limitations on our MOD business. Moreover, our plans to introduce VoIP telephone services have also been delayed because we have not received requisite approvals from the applicable regulatory authority. In addition, the cost of implementing new technologies, upgrading our networks or expanding capacity could be significant. In particular, we have made and will continue to make substantial capital expenditures in the near future in order for us to effectively respond to technological changes, such as the continued expansion of our 3G cellular mobile network. We will also need to make additional capital expenditures relating to the launch of new businesses, including MOD, ADSL services, fiber-to-the-building services WiMAX and VoIP services, and the implementation of a network modernization program, including the planned migration of our fixed line networks to internet protocol next generation networks. To the extent these expenditures exceed our cash resources, we will be required to seek additional debt or equity financing. Our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable commercial terms will depend on a number of factors. These factors include our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the prevailing market conditions in the Taiwan and international telecommunications industry, the cost of financing and conditions in the financial markets, and the issuance of relevant government and other regulatory approvals. The failure to obtain funding for our capital expenditures on commercially acceptable terms and on a timely basis, or at all, could jeopardize our expansion plans and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not realize the benefits we expect from our investments, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have made significant capital investments in our network infrastructure and information technology systems to provide the services we offer. In 2006, we had capital expenditures in relation to our network infrastructure and information technology systems of NT$27.7 billion. Of this amount, we had capital expenditures of NT$5.4 billion in our fixed line services, NT$9.4 billion in our cellular services, NT$12.5 billion in our internet and data services and NT$0.4 billion in other areas. In order to continue to develop our business and offer new and more sophisticated services, we intend to continue to invest in these areas as well as new technologies. The launch of new and commercially viable products and services is important to the success of our business. We expect to incur substantial capital expenditures to further develop our range of services and products. Commercial acceptance by consumers of new and more sophisticated services we offer may not occur at the rate or level expected, and we may not be able to successfully adapt these services to effectively and economically meet our customers’ demand, thus impairing our expected return from our investments. We cannot assure you that services enabled by new technologies we implement, such as 3G cellular technology, will be accepted by the public to the extent required to generate an acceptable rate of return. In addition, we face the risk of unforeseen complications in the deployment of these new services and technologies, and we cannot assure you that our estimate of the necessary capital expenditure to offer such services will not be exceeded. New services and technologies may not be developed and/or deployed according to expected schedules or may not achieve commercial acceptance or be cost effective. The failure of any of our services to achieve commercial acceptance could result in additional capital expenditures or a reduction in profitability to the extent that we are required under the applicable accounting standards to recognize a charge for the impairment of assets. Any such charge could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may also from time to time make equity investments in companies, but we cannot assure you of their profitability. For example, Chunghwa Investment Co., Ltd, a company in which we hold a 49% interest and which we account for using the equity method, suffered losses in 2004. As a result, the carrying value of 8 Table of Contents Chunghwa Investment in our consolidated financial statements was reduced from NT$987 million in 2003 to NT$930 million in 2004. These losses were partially attributable to the write-off of certain short-term investments in the amount of NT$80 million that were not authorized by Chunghwa Investment, but were made by the then chairman of Chunghwa Investment, Mr. Jing-Biao Hu, who was removed from office on December 31, 2004. In addition, another of our investments, the Taipei Financial Center Corporation, in which we hold a 12% interest and which we account for using the cost method, commenced commercial operations after completing construction of Taipei 101, which it owns and which is the tallest building in Taiwan. In 2005, we recognized a loss of NT$740 million in relation to this investment due to lower than expected leasing rates for office and retail space in Taipei 101. We cannot assure you that any unprofitable equity investments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to deliver services may be disrupted due to a systems failure, shutdown in our networks, earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our services are currently carried through our fixed line and cellular telecommunications networks, as well as through our transmission networks comprised of optical fiber cable, microwave, submarine cable and satellite transmission links. Our networks may be vulnerable to damage or interruptions in operations due to adverse weather conditions, earthquakes, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, software flaws, transmission cable cuts or similar events. For example, on December 26, 2006, a 6.9 magnitude earthquake in the southern seas of Taiwan caused significant damage to the undersea cable networks that connect Taiwan to the United States, Japan, Hong Kong, China and other countries in South East Asia. The earthquake resulted in major outages in telephone and internet services throughout the region. It took one week to restore 90% of the capacity and repairs were not completed until February 2, 2007, when all four affected undersea cables finally returned to normal operations. As a result of the December 2006 earthquake, we suffered repair costs of approximately NT$10 million. Taiwan is susceptible to earthquakes and typhoons, however, we do not carry any insurance to cover damages caused by earthquakes, typhoons or other natural disasters, or to cover any resulting business interruption. Any failure of our networks, servers, or any link in the delivery chain that results in an interruption in our operations or an interruption in the provision of any of our services, whether from operational disruption, natural disaster, military or terrorist activity, or otherwise, could damage our ability to attract and retain subscribers and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If new technologies adopted by us do not perform as expected, or if we are unable to effectively deliver new services based on these technologies in a commercially viable manner, our revenue growth and profitability will decline. We are pursuing a number of new growth opportunities in the broader telecommunications industry, including wireless data services, MOD services and VoIP, WiMAX. These opportunities involve new services for which there are no proven markets. Our ability to deploy and deliver these services will depend, in many instances, on new and unproven technologies. These new technologies, such as 3G cellular telecommunications technologies, may not perform as expected or generate an acceptable rate of return. In addition, we may not be able to successfully develop new technologies to effectively and economically deliver these services, or be able to compete successfully in the delivery of telecommunications services based on new technologies. Furthermore, the success of our wireless data services is substantially dependent on the availability of wireless data applications and devices that are being developed by third-party developers. These applications or devices may not be sufficiently developed to support the deployment of our wireless data services. If we are unable to deliver commercially viable services based on the new technologies that we adopt, then our revenue growth and profitability, as well as our financial condition and results of operations, will be materially and adversely affected. We depend on select personnel and could be affected by the loss of their services. We depend on the continued service of our executive officers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of any of these personnel and cannot adequately replace them. In 9 Table of Contents particular, we are not insured against the loss of any of our personnel. Moreover, we may be required to increase substantially the number of these employees in connection with any expansion, and there is intense competition for experienced personnel in the Taiwan telecommunications industry. We may not be able to either retain our present personnel or attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed. In addition, we may need to increase employee compensation levels in order to attract and retain personnel. We cannot assure you that the loss of the services of any of these personnel would not disrupt our business and operations, and materially and adversely affect the quality of our services and harm our reputation. Our largest shareholder may take actions that conflict with our public shareholders’ best interests. As of April 17, 2007, the Republic of China government, through the Ministry of Transportation and Communications, owned approximately 35.41% of our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, the government, through its control over our board, may continue to have the ability to control our business, including matters relating to: • any sale of all or substantially all of our assets; • the approval of our annual operation and projects budget; • the composition of our senior management; • the timing and distribution of dividends; • the election of a majority of our directors and supervisors; and • our business activities and direction. In addition, pursuant to the Republic of China Telecommunications Act, or the Telecommunications Act, and our articles of incorporation, our board of directors approved the issuance of two preferred shares on March 28, 2006 to the Ministry of Transportation and Communications. As the holder of these preferred shares, the Ministry & Transportation and Communications has the right to veto any change in our name or our business and any transfer of the whole or the main part of our business or property and to act as a director and supervisor on the basis of its preferred shareholding. Under our articles of incorporation, these preferred shares are non-transferable and will be redeemed by us three years after the record date of their issuance at their par value. The value of your investment may be reduced by future sales of our ADSs or common shares by us, by the Republic of China government or by other shareholders. The government may continue to sell our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of ADSs or common shares by the government or any other shareholder in the public market, or the perception that future sales may occur, could depress the prevailing market price of our ADSs and common shares. We may be sanctioned or lose our licenses for violations of limits on foreign ownership of our common shares, and these limits may materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. The laws of the Republic of China limit foreign ownership of our common shares. Prior to March 1, 2006, the Ministry of Transportation and Communications, as the competent authority under the Telecommunications Act, had the power to prescribe the limits on foreign ownership of our common shares. After the formation of the National Communications Commission, on March 1, 2006, the National Communications Commission replaced the Ministry of Transportation and Communications as the competent authority under the Telecommunications Act pursuant to the Organization Law. However, it is unclear whether the National Communications Commission (instead of the Ministry of Transportation and Communications) has the authority to prescribe the limits of foreign ownership of our common shares. On July 19, 2006, the Ministry of Transportation and Communications increased our foreign ownership limitation from 40% to 49% pursuant to the Telecommunications Act. Since our foreign ownership is now above 40%, we could be deemed in violation of the foreign ownership limitations if it is determined that the Ministry of Transportation and Communications did not have authority to increase our foreign ownership limit to 49% as it purported to do on July 19, 2006. If we fail to comply with the applicable foreign ownership limitations, our licenses to operate some of our businesses could be revoked. Moreover, we 10 Table of Contents cannot predict the manner in which the National Communications Commission will exercise its authority over us, and the National Communications Commission could decline to raise, or determine to reduce, this foreign ownership limitation. In addition, the Cable Radio and Television Law, under which we operate our MOD business, provides that direct foreign ownership in a cable operator may not exceed 20%, and that the combined direct and indirect foreign ownership in a cable operator may not exceed 60%. We were granted a license under this law, even though we were not, and are not, in compliance with this and other ownership restrictions. However, the National Communications Commission, which has been responsible for administering regulations in this area since March 1, 2006, issued an order on August 23, 2006 requesting us to open our MOD services platform to non-Chunghwa Telecom HiNet subscribers and other service operators and content providers by December 31, 2006. In January 2007, the National Communications Commission, after reviewing the opening in our platform for MOD service, held that we had complied with the request in its order and therefore we would not be considered a cable, radio or television system operator under the Cable Radio and Television Law with respect to this business. Consequently, we are not subject to such ownership restrictions. However, the National Communications Commission did announce that it would further amend the Regulation Governing Fixed Line Services in order to regulate the MOD service provided by fixed line operators and would then ask us to submit our operation rules, tariff and service agreement for MOD services for its review. We cannot predict the outcome of such review and we cannot assure you that further amendment would not subject us to ownership restrictions or other limitations on our MOD business. Since it is unclear whether the National Communications Commission or the Ministry of Transportation and Communications has the authority to exercise power with respect to raising our foreign ownership limitations, we cannot assure you that we are not in violation of the limits on our foreign ownership under the Telecommunications Act. If we are deemed to be in violation of our foreign ownership limitations, any consequences arising from such violation may materially and adversely affect us. Moreover, since we are unable to control ownership of our common shares or ADSs representing our common shares, and because we have no ability to stop transfers among shareholders, or force particular shareholders to sell their shares, we may be subject to monetary fine or lose our licenses through no fault of our own. In that event, our business could be disrupted, our reputation could be damaged and the market price of our ADSs and common shares could decline. These limitations may also materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain adequate financing to fund our future capital requirements or to obtain strategic partners, and alternate forms of financing may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Actual or perceived health risks related to cellular handsets and base stations could lead to decreased cellular telephone usage and difficulties in increasing network coverage and could expose us to potential liability. According to some published reports, the electromagnetic signals from cellular handsets and cellular base stations may pose health risks or interfere with the operation of electronic equipment. Although the findings of those reports are disputed, actual or perceived risks of using cellular telecommunications devices or of base stations could have a material adverse effect on cellular service providers, including us. For example, our customer base could be reduced, our customers may reduce their usage of our cellular services, we could encounter difficulties in obtaining sites for additional cellular base stations required to expand our network coverage or we may be requested to reduce the number of existing cellular base stations. As a result, our cellular business may generate less revenue and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we could be exposed to potential liability for any health problems caused by cellular handsets and base stations. The market value of your investment may fluctuate due to financial results released in the Republic of China that are prepared on a basis that is different from generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Our ongoing financial reporting with the SEC is currently under US GAAP. Beginning in 2008, we plan to prepare our financial reporting with the SEC under generally accepted accounting principles in the Republic of 11 Table of Contents China, or ROC GAAP, with reconciliation to US GAAP in accordance with the requirements of the SEC. Our reported financial condition and results of operations under US GAAP may differ significantly from ROC GAAP. The price of our common shares trading on the Taiwan Stock Exchange may be based on, among other things, our consolidated financial statements prepared for ongoing reporting purposes in the Republic of China, and this in turn may affect the market price of our ADSs. We are subject to litigation that could expose us to substantial liabilities. We are from time to time involved in litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Legal Proceedings.” We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings, and we cannot assure you that if a judgment is rendered against us in any or all of these proceedings, our financial condition and results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected. Investor confidence in us may be adversely impacted if we or our independent registered public accountants are unable to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the SEC. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring U.S. public companies to include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, each company’s independent registered public accountants must attest to and report on the design and operating effectiveness of and management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements first applied to us in connection with our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2006. While the management report included in this annual report concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot assure you that our management will be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in future years. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still conclude that our internal control is not effective due to any inability to fully remedy the material weaknesses already reported to our audit committee by our independent registered public accounting firm or additional material weaknesses that may be identified during the Section 404 audit process or other reasons. If in future years we fail to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we could suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs, result in lawsuits being filed against us by our shareholders or otherwise harm our reputation. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in our efforts to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our investments in real estate projects may not be profitable and will subject us to additional risks not related to our core businesses. We have recently begun investing in real estate revitalization projects as part of our efforts to make more productive use of certain undeveloped or underdeveloped properties that we own. Our revitalization projects include the development of high-tech residences, commercial offices and resorts. As of the date of this annual report, we have six such projects underway relating to properties in and around Taipei and other parts of Taiwan. We have no prior experience operating real estate development projects and cannot assure you that our investments will achieve their expected results. Operating or investing in real estate projects involves numerous risks for which we may not be adequately protected. Many of these risks are also beyond our control. For example, our projects may be delayed or never completed due to the failure of other parties with which we have contracted to fulfill their contractual obligations or because of unexpected problems that arise during the planning or construction phases of the projects. Any significant delay or any failure to complete our projects 12 Table of Contents might result in our projects not achieving their expected return and could subject us to a loss on our investment. In addition, changes in the regulatory or economic environment relating to real estate, such as changes in interest rates affecting the financing of our projects, increases in the applicable property tax rates relating to our properties and decreases in demand for residential, commercial or resort properties, could adversely affect the value of our properties and/or reduce or eliminate the profitability of our projects. If our revitalization projects do not achieve their expected results or subject us to a significant financial loss, this could have a adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any further economic downturn or decline in the growth of the population in Taiwan may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We conduct most of our operations and generate most of our revenues in Taiwan. As a result, any decline in the Taiwan economy or a decline in the growth of the population in Taiwan may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In recent years, the banking and financial sectors in Taiwan have been seriously harmed by the general economic downturn in Taiwan and the rest of Asia, which has resulted in a depressed property market and an increase in the number of companies filing for corporate reorganization and bankruptcy protection. Although economic conditions in Taiwan improved since 2003, the global slowdown in technology expenditures has also from time to time adversely affected the Taiwan economy, which is highly dependent on the technology industry. We cannot assure you that economic conditions in Taiwan will continue to improve in the future or that our business and operations will not be materially and adversely affected by a deterioration in the Taiwan economy. We face substantial political risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to domestic political events and the tense relationship between the Republic of China and the People’s Republic of China, that could negatively affect the value of your investment. Our principal executive offices and substantially all of our assets are located in Taiwan, and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in Taiwan. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common shares and the ADSs may be affected by changes in Republic of China governmental policies, taxation, inflation or interest rates and by social instability and diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Taiwan which are outside of our control. For example, in 2006 a mass movement formed calling for the resignation of the president of Taiwan over a series of alleged corruption scandals and staged dramatic protests. In addition, Taiwan has a unique international political status. Since 1949, Taiwan and the Chinese mainland have been separately governed. The People’s Republic of China, or PRC, claims that it is the sole government in China and that Taiwan is part of China. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between the Republic of China and the PRC, relations have often been strained. The PRC government has refused to renounce the use of military force to gain control over Taiwan. Furthermore, the PRC government passed an Anti-Secession Law in March 2005, which authorizes non-peaceful means and other necessary measures should Taiwan move to gain independence from the PRC. In February 2006, the president of Taiwan ceased activities of the country’s National Unification Council, a committee established to assist Taiwan in its efforts to reunite with the PRC. Such cessation is commonly viewed as having a detrimental effect on relations between the two countries. Past developments in relations between the Republic of China and the PRC have on occasion depressed the market prices of the securities of companies in the Republic of China. Relations between the Republic of China and the PRC and other factors affecting military, political or economic conditions in Taiwan could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price and the liquidity of our securities. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases may materially and adversely affect our business and operations, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian influenza, may disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business and may generally disrupt our operations. If any of our employees is suspected of having contracted any contagious disease, we may under certain circumstances be 13 Table of Contents required to quarantine such employees and the affected areas of our premises. As a result, we may have to temporarily suspend part or all of our operations. Furthermore, any future outbreak may restrict the level of economic activity in affected regions, including Taiwan, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, we cannot assure you that any future outbreak of contagious diseases would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests under the laws of the Republic of China than they would under the laws of the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation, the Telecommunications Act, and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in the Republic of China. In addition, our corporate affairs may remain governed by the Statute of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. See “—Extensive regulation of our industry may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions and competition, and our business may suffer.” The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of management and the members of the board of directors of Taiwan companies are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States. For example, controlling or major shareholders of Taiwan companies do not owe fiduciary duties to minority shareholders. As a result, holders of our common shares and ADSs may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management or members of our board of directors than they would as public shareholders of a United States corporation. The market value of your investment may fluctuate due to the volatility of, and government intervention in, the Taiwan securities market. Our common shares are traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange, which has a smaller market capitalization and is more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and many European countries. The market value of our ADSs may fluctuate in response to the fluctuation of the trading price of our common shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices and trading volumes of listed securities and there are currently limits on the range of daily price movements. In recent years, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index reached a peak of 10,202.20 in February 2000 and subsequently fell to a low of 3,446.26 in October 2001. During 2006, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index peaked at 7,823.72 on December 29, 2006, and reached a low of 6,257.80 on July 17, 2006. On April 20, 2007, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index closed at 7,942.67. The Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced certain problems, including market manipulation, insider trading and payment defaults. The recurrence of these or similar problems could have a material adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the securities of Taiwan companies, including our ADSs and common shares, in both the domestic and the international markets. In response to declines and volatility in the securities markets in Taiwan, the Republic of China government formed the National Financial Stabilization Fund to support these markets through open market purchases of shares in Taiwan companies from time to time. The details of the transactions of the National Financial Stabilization Fund have not been made public. In addition, the government’s Labor Insurance Fund and other funds associated with the government have in the past purchased, and may from time to time purchase, shares of Taiwan companies listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange or other markets. As a result of these activities, the market price of common shares of Taiwan companies may have been and may currently be higher than the prices that would otherwise prevail in the open market. Market intervention by government entities, or the perception that such activity is taking place, may take place or has ceased, may cause sudden movements in the market prices of the securities of Taiwan companies, which may affect the market price and liquidity of our common shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our ADSs Restrictions on the ability to deposit our common shares into our ADS program may adversely affect the liquidity and price of the ADSs. The ability to deposit shares into our ADS program is restricted by Republic of China law, under which no person or entity, including you and us, may deposit our common shares into our ADS program unless the 14 Table of Contents Securities and Futures Bureau has not objected within a prescribed period following the filing with it of an application to do so, except for the deposit of the common shares into our ADS program and for the issuance of additional ADSs in connection with: • distribution of share dividends or free distribution of our common shares; • exercise of preemptive rights of ADS holders applicable to the common shares evidenced by our ADSs in the event of capital increases for cash; or • purchases of our common shares in the domestic market in Taiwan by the investor directly or through the depositary and delivery of such shares or delivery of our common shares held by such investors to the custodian for deposit into our ADS program, subject to the following conditions: (a) the depositary may accept deposit of those shares and issue the corresponding number of ADSs with regard to such deposits only if the total number of ADSs outstanding after the deposit does not exceed the number of ADSs previously approved by the Securities and Futures Bureau, plus any ADSs issued pursuant to the events described above; and (b) this deposit may only be made to the extent previously issued ADSs have been cancelled. As a result of the limited ability to deposit common shares into our ADS program, the prevailing market price of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange may differ from the prevailing market price of the equivalent number of our common shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. You will be more restricted in your ability to exercise voting rights than the holders of our common shares, which may diminish your influence over our corporate affairs and may reduce the value of your ADSs. Holders of American depositary receipts evidencing our ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares represented by these ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of our deposit agreement. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of notice of any meeting of holders of our common shares, the depositary bank will, as soon as practicable thereafter if requested by us in writing, mail to ADS holders the notice of the meeting sent by us, voting instruction forms and a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders. ADS holders will not generally be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the deposited securities on an individual basis. Under the deposit agreement, the voting rights attaching to the deposited securities must be exercised as to all matters subject to a vote of shareholders collectively in the same manner, except in the case of an election of directors and supervisors. The election of our directors and supervisors is by means of cumulative voting. In the event the depositary does not receive voting instructions from ADS holders in accordance with the deposit agreement, our chairman or his or her designee will be entitled to vote the common shares represented by the ADSs in the manner he or she deems appropriate at his or her discretion, which may not be in your interest. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer you those rights unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. If the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. 15 Table of Contents Changes in exchange controls that restrict your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs may have an adverse effect on the value of your investment. Your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs depends on existing and future exchange control regulations of the Republic of China. Under the current laws of the Republic of China, an ADS holder or the depositary, without obtaining further approvals from the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) or any other governmental authority or agency of the Republic of China, may convert NT dollars into other currencies, including U.S. dollars, in respect of: • the proceeds of the sale of common shares represented by ADSs or received as share dividends with respect to the common shares and deposited into the depositary receipt facility; and • any cash dividends or distributions received from the common shares represented by ADSs. In addition, the depositary may also convert into NT dollars incoming payments for purchases of common shares for deposit in the depositary receipt facility against the creation of additional ADSs. If you withdraw the common shares underlying your ADSs and become a holder of our common shares, you may convert into NT dollars subscription payments for rights offerings. The depositary may be required to obtain foreign exchange approval from the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) on a payment-by-payment basis for conversion from NT dollars into foreign currencies of the proceeds from the sale of subscription rights of new common shares. Although it is expected that the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) will grant approval as a routine matter, required approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, or at all. Under the Republic of China Foreign Exchange Control Law, the Executive Yuan of the Republic of China may, without prior notice but subject to subsequent legislative approval rendered within ten days from such imposition, impose foreign exchange controls or other restrictions in the event of, among other things, a material change in domestic or international economic conditions which might threaten the stability of the domestic economy in Taiwan. You are required to register with the Taiwan Stock Exchange and appoint several local agents in Taiwan if you withdraw common shares from our ADS facility and become our shareholder, which may make your ownership burdensome. If you are a non-Republic of China person and wish to withdraw common shares represented by your ADSs from our ADS facility and hold those common shares, you are required under the current laws and regulations of the Republic of China to appoint an agent, also referred to as a tax guarantor, in the Republic of China for filing tax returns and making tax payment. A tax guarantor must meet certain qualifications set by the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of China and, upon appointment, becomes a guarantor of your Republic of China tax obligations. If you wish to repatriate profits derived from the sale of withdrawn common shares or cash dividends or interest on funds derived from the withdrawn common shares, you will be required to submit evidence of your appointment of a tax guarantor and the approval of the appointment by the Republic of China tax authorities. You may not be able to appoint and obtain approval for a tax guarantor in a timely manner. In addition, under the current laws of the Republic of China, you will be required to be registered as a foreign investor with the Taiwan Stock Exchange for making investments in the Republic of China securities market prior to your withdrawal and holding of common shares represented by the ADSs. You will be required to appoint a local agent in Taiwan to, among other things, open a securities trading account with a local securities brokerage firm and a bank account to remit funds, exercise shareholders’ rights and perform other functions as holders of ADSs may designate. You must also appoint a local bank to act as custodian for handling confirmation and settlement of trades, safekeeping of securities and cash proceeds and reporting and declaration of information. Without the relevant registration and appointment of the local agent and custodian and the opening of a securities trading account and bank account, you will not be able to hold, subsequently sell or otherwise transfer our common shares withdrawn from the ADSs facilities on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. 16 Table of Contents Our actual financial results may differ materially from our announced full year guidance. Each year, we announce guidance for the current fiscal year prepared in accordance with ROC GAAP and the requirements of the Taiwan Stock Exchange. These projections are based on a number of estimates and assumptions and are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, including the risks factors described in this annual report. These projections are not prepared with a view towards compliance with published guidelines of the SEC, the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board or generally accepted accounting principles and, accordingly, you should not rely on this information. In particular, projections are forward-looking statements that are necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that one or more of the estimates on which the projections were based will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results, and such variances will likely increase over time. 