D. Risk Factors An investment in the Company's common shares is highly speculative and subject to a number of risks. Only those persons who can bear the risk of the entire loss of their investment should participate. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information that the Company furnishes to, or files with, the Securities and Exchange Commission and with Canadian securities regulators before investing in the Company's common shares. The risks described below are not the only ones faced by the Company. Additional risks that management is unaware of or that the Company currently believes are immaterial may indeed become important factors that affect the Company's business. If any of the following risks occur, or if others occur, the Company's business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed and the investor may lose all of his or her investment. 12 Going concern risk The consolidated financial statements for the year ended May 31, 2013 have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with IFRS. The going concern basis of presentation assumes that the Company will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and be able to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. There is substantial doubt about the appropriateness of the use of the going concern assumption because the Company had experienced operating losses from incorporation and has accumulated a deficit of $125,877,356 as at May 31, 2013 and a working capital deficiency of $2,065,539. Management has forecast that contractual commitments and debt service obligations will exceed the company's net cash flows and working capital during fiscal 2014. The Company’s future operations are dependent upon its ability to grow sales of AGGRASTAT, to develop and/or acquire new products, and/or secure additional capital, which may not be available under favourable terms or at all, and/or renegotiate the terms of its contractual commitments and long-term debt. If the Company is unable to grow sales or raise additional capital, management will consider other strategies including further cost curtailments, delays of research and development activities, asset divestures and/or monetization of certain intangibles. Effective August 1, 2013, the Company renegotiated its long-term debt and received an additional two year deferral of principal repayments. Under the renegotiated terms, the loan continues to be interest only with principal repayments now beginning on August 1, 2015 and the loan matures on July 1, 2018. The ability of the Company to continue as a going concern and to realize the carrying value of its assets and discharge its liabilities when due is dependent on many factors, including, but not limited to the actions taken or planned, some of which are described above, which are intended to mitigate the adverse conditions and events which raise doubt about the validity of the going concern assumption used in preparing these financial statements. There is no certainty that the Company’s working capital will be sufficient through fiscal 2014 or that the above described and other strategies will be sufficient to permit the Company to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not reflect adjustments that would be necessary if the going concern assumption were not appropriate. If the going concern basis was not appropriate for these financial statements, then adjustments would be necessary to the carrying value of assets and liabilities, the reported revenues and expenses, and the statement of financial position classifications used. Prior to the acquisition of AGGRASTAT, the Company had no products in commercial production or use. As such, the Company was considered to be a development-stage enterprise for accounting purposes prior to the acquisition. The Company expects to continue to incur losses and may never achieve profitability, which in turn may harm its future operating performance and may cause the market price of its stock to decline. With the exception of AGGRASTAT, the Company’s products are in the development stage and accordingly, its business operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment and maintenance of a developing business enterprise, such as those related to competition and viable operations management. 13 The Company has incurred net losses since inception to May 31, 2013, excluding the year ended May 31, 2012 where the Company recorded net income of $23,385,779, primarily as a result of a gain on the settlement of the Company’s long-term debt. The Company incurred a net loss of 2,635,405 for the year ended May 31, 2013 and $1,634,774 for the year ended May 31, 2011. Additionally, as reported under previous Canadian GAAP, the Company incurred net losses of $5,532,506 for the year ended May 31, 2010 and $13,315,827 for the year ended May 31, 2009. The long-term profitability of the Company’s operations is uncertain, and may never occur. The Company’s long-term profitability will be directly related to its ability to develop a commercially viable drug product or products. This in turn depends on numerous factors, including the following: a) the success of the Company’s research and development activities; b) obtaining Canadian and United States regulatory approvals to market any of its development products; c) the ability to contract for the manufacture of the Company’s products according to schedule and within budget, given that it has no experience in large scale manufacturing; d) the ability to develop, implement and maintain appropriate systems and structures to market and operate within applicable regulatory, industry and legal guidelines; e) the ability to identify, negotiate and complete business development transactions (eg. the sale, purchase, or license of pharmaceutical products or services) with third parties; f) the ability to successfully prosecute and defend its patents and other intellectual property; and g) the ability to successfully market the Company’s products including AGGRASTAT given that it has limited resources. If the Company does achieve profitability, it may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. The Company may be exposed to short-term liquidity risk. To a certain extent the Company relies on trade credit, as well as cash from operations, term debt and equity issues to provide the necessary short-term financing to conduct the Company’s research and development activities, as well as its commercial operations. Should suppliers and other creditors decline to extend short-term credit to the Company in the future, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business prospects, financial results and financial condition. Under current indebtedness levels the Company must meet its debt repayment obligations. Additionally, the Company may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with the Company’s substantial leverage. On July 18, 2011, the Company borrowed $5,000,000 from the Government of Manitoba, under the Manitoba Industrial Opportunities Program, to assist with settling the Company’s long-term debt at that time. The loan bears interest annually at the crown corporation borrowing rate plus two percent and matures on July 1, 2016. The loan is payable interest only for the first 24 months, with blended principal and interest payments made monthly thereafter until maturity. The loan is secured by the Company’s assets and guaranteed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and entities controlled by the Chief Executive Officer. The Company must meet its debt repayment obligations and failure to do so could cause the lender to demand on its security on the Company's long-term debt. The Company has made all payments to date in relation to this indebtedness, however there is no certainty that the Company will be able to continue servicing the debt once principal repayments are required. Effective August 1, 2013, the Company renegotiated its long-term debt and received an additional two year deferral of principal repayments. Under the renegotiated terms, the loan continues to be interest only with principal repayments now beginning on August 1, 2015 and the loan matures on July 1, 2018. 14 Despite current indebtedness levels, the Company may still be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The Company may never receive regulatory approval in Canada, the United States or abroad for any of its products in development. Therefore, the Company may not be able to sell any therapeutic products currently under development. The Company’s failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals to fully market its current and future development stage products in one or more significant markets may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The process involved in obtaining regulatory approval from the competent authorities to market therapeutic products is long and costly and may delay product development. The approval to market a product may be applicable to a limited extent only or it may be refused entirely. With the exception of AGGRASTAT, all of the Company’s products are currently in the research and development stages. The Company may never have another commercially viable drug product approved for marketing. To obtain regulatory approvals for its products and to achieve commercial success, human clinical trials must demonstrate that the products are safe for human use and that they show efficacy. Unsatisfactory results obtained from a particular study or clinical trial relating to one or more of the Company’s products may cause the Company to reduce or abandon its commitment to that program. If the Company fails to successfully complete its clinical trials, it will not obtain approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and other international regulatory agencies, to market its leading products. Regulatory approvals also may be subject to conditions that could limit the market its products can be sold in or make either products more difficult or expensive to sell than anticipated. Also, regulatory approvals may be revoked at any time for various reasons, including for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or poor performance of its products in terms of safety and effectiveness. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if it fails to obtain regulatory approvals in Canada, the United States and abroad to market and sell its current or future drug products, including any limitations imposed on the marketing of such products. If the Company fails to acquire and develop additional product candidates or approved products, it will impair the Company’s ability to grow its business and to increase value for shareholders. The Company generates product revenue only from AGGRASTAT. A component of the Company’s plan to generate additional revenue is its intention to develop and/or to acquire or license, and then develop and market, additional product candidates or approved products. The success of this growth strategy depends upon the Company’s ability to identify, select and acquire or license pharmaceutical products that meet the criteria it has established. Due to the fact the Company has limited financial capacity and limited value in its equity, relative to other companies in the industry, it has a limited number of product opportunities to choose from. Moreover, the Company’s ability to research and develop its own, or other acquired/licensed products, is limited by the extent of its internal scientific research capabilities. In addition, proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition or license is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with the Company for the acquisition or license of product candidates and approved products. The Company may not be able to acquire or license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that it finds acceptable, or at all. 15 The Company may never receive regulatory approval in the United States to expand or otherwise improve the approved indications and/or dosing information contained within AGGRASTAT’s prescribing information. Therefore, the Company may not be able to materially increase the sales of AGGRASTAT. In order to market AGGRASTAT for expanded indications and dosing regimens, the Company will need to conduct appropriate clinical trials, obtain positive results from those trials and obtain regulatory approval for such proposed indications and dosing regimens. The Company’s failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals from the FDA to expand or otherwise improve the approved indications and/or dosing information contained within AGGRASTAT’s prescribing information may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The process involved in obtaining such regulatory approval is long and costly and may require additional investments that may not be reasonably achievable by the Company. The regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application. Varying interpretations of the data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a new indication for a product. Furthermore, the approval to modify the prescribing information may be applicable to a limited extent only or it may be refused entirely. The current approved prescribing information for AGGRASTAT does not include all of the dosing and therapeutic indications provided for in the prescribing information of its competitors. Moreover, the prescribing information does not include all of the dosing and therapeutic indications for which a physician may wish to use the product. Although health care professionals may utilize a product at doses and for indications outside of the approved prescribing information, the Company is prohibited from promoting such uses. To obtain regulatory approvals to modify the prescribing information, the Company must supply sufficient information supporting the safety and efficacy of such uses to the FDA, which in turn must review and deem this information to be sufficient to modify the label in the agreed upon fashion. Unsatisfactory or insufficient results obtained from any particular study or clinical trial relating to the Company’s products may cause the Company to reduce or abandon its efforts to expand or otherwise improve the approved indications and/or dosing information contained within AGGRASTAT’s prescribing information. If the Company does not comply with federal, state and foreign laws and regulations relating to the health care business, it could face substantial penalties. The Company and its customers are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, and the governments of the states in which the business is conducted. In the United States, the laws that directly or indirectly affect the Company’s ability to operate its business include the following: · the Federal Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual or furnishing or arranging for a good or service for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; · other Medicare laws and regulations that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment for services performed by the Company’s customers, including the amount of such payment; · the Federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; · the Federal False Statements Act, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services; and · various state laws that impose similar requirements and liability with respect to state healthcare reimbursement and other programs. 16 If the Company’s operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations described above or any other law or governmental regulation to which the Company or its customers are or will be subject, the Company may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of its operations. Similarly, if the Company’s customers are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on the Company. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of the Company’s operations would adversely affect its ability to operate its business and financial results. Any action against the Company for violation of these laws, even if the Company is able to successfully defend against it, could cause it to incur significant legal expenses, divert management’s attention from the operation of the business and damage the Company’s reputation. Due to the fact a substantial amount of the use of AGGRASTAT is outside of the FDA approved indications and/or dosing information contained within AGGRASTAT’s prescribing information, the Company may be at a greater risk than another pharmaceutical company would be whose products are predominantly used within the approved prescribing information. AGGRASTAST competes with a variety of drugs, which may limit the use of AGGRASTAT and adversely affect the Company’s revenue. Due to the incidence and severity of cardiovascular diseases, the market for anticoagulant and antiplatelet therapies is large and competition is intense. There are a number of anticoagulant and antiplatelet drugs currently on the market, awaiting regulatory approval or in development, including orally administered agents. AGGRASTAT competes with, or may compete with in the future, these drugs to the extent AGGRASTAT and any of these drugs are approved for the same or similar indications. AGGRASTAT competes primarily with other platelet inhibitors, in particular the other GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ReoPro (abciximab) (sold by Eli Lilly and Company) and Integrilin (eptifibatide) (sold by Merck & Co., Inc.). It also competes with a number of oral platelet inhibitors, which can be used alone or in conjunction with anticoagulants, most notably with heparin (sold generically by a number of companies) and it is anticipated that new injectable platelet inhibitors (eg. cangrelor, which is being developed by The Medicines Company, Inc.) may become available that would also compete directly with AGGRASTAT. In addition, some alternative methods of treatment, such as the use of Angiomax (bivalirudin) (sold by The Medicines Company, Inc.), also compete with AGGRASTAT. These competitors are all marketed by large pharmaceutical companies with significantly more resources and experience than the Company. In the majority of hospitals in the United States AGGRASTAT is not available on the hospital formulary and it can be very difficult and time consuming to have AGGRASTAT added to formulary for use by health care professionals. In many cases, the other treatment approaches may have FDA approval for dosing regimens and/or therapeutic indications that are outside of AGGRASTAT’s approved prescribing information. The risk of bleeding associated with AGGRASTAT may cause physicians to choose an alternative therapy. In some circumstances, AGGRASTAT competes with other drugs for the use of hospital financial resources. Although AGGRASTAT is positioned as a relatively low cost therapy, in certain circumstances, other treatment approaches are lower cost and may for this reason be preferred by health care professionals, in particular where oral antiplatelet agents are deemed suitable. 17 The Company may not be able to hire or retain the qualified scientific, technical and management personnel it requires. The Company’s business prospects and operations depend on the continued contributions of certain of the Company’s executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, certain of whom would be difficult to replace. The Company’s subsidiary, Medicure International, Inc., has a contract with CanAm Bioresearch Inc. (“CanAm”) to perform for it a significant amount of its research and development activities. Because of the specialized scientific nature of the Company’s business, the loss of services of CanAm may require the Company to attract and retain replacement qualified scientific, technical and management personnel. Competition in the biotechnology industry for such personnel is intense and the Company may not be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel, which may compromise the pace and success of its research and development activities. Also, certain of the Company’s management personnel are officers and/or directors of other companies, some publicly-traded, and will only devote part of their time to the Company. Although the Company has key person insurance for Dr. Albert Friesen, Chief Executive Officer, the Company does not have key person insurance in effect in the event of a loss of any other management, scientific or other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of the Company’s current executive officers or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business prospects, financial results and financial condition. The Company faces substantial technological competition from many biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies with much greater resources, and it may not be able to effectively compete. Technological and scientific competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is intense. The Company competes with other companies in Canada, the United States and abroad to develop products designed to treat similar conditions. Many of these other companies have substantially greater financial, technical and scientific research and development resources, manufacturing and production and sales and marketing capabilities than the Company. Small companies may also prove to be significant competitors, whether acting independently or through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Developments by other companies may adversely affect the competitiveness of the Company’s products or technologies or the commitment of its research and marketing collaborators to its programs or even render its products obsolete. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is characterized by extensive drug discovery and drug research efforts and rapid technological and scientific change. Competition can be expected to increase as technological advances are made and commercial applications for biopharmaceutical products increase. The Company’s competitors may use different technologies or approaches to develop products similar to the products which it is developing, or may develop new or enhanced products or processes that may be more effective, less expensive, safer or more readily available before or after the Company obtains approval of its products. The Company may not be able to successfully compete with its competitors or their products and, if it is unable to do so, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 18 The Company may be unable to establish collaborative and commercial relationships with third parties. The Company’s success will depend partly on its ability to enter into and to maintain various arrangements with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others for the research, development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing, sales and commercialization of its products. These relationships are crucial to the Company’s intention to license to or contract with other pharmaceutical companies for the manufacturing, marketing, sales and/or distribution of any its current or future products. There can be no assurance that any licensing or other agreements will be established on favourable terms, if at all. The failure to establish successful collaborative arrangements may negatively impact the Company’s ability to develop and commercialize its products, and may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is currently dependent on its remaining inventory of its sole commercial product, AGGRASTAT and does not have in place a qualified supplier of raw material used in the manufacture of AGGRASTAT. During fiscal 2012, the Company’s subsidiary, Medicure International, Inc., acquired a significant quantity of the raw material used in the manufacture of AGGRASTAT and terminated its supply contract with its sole supplier of the raw material for AGGRASTAT. In addition, Medicure International, Inc. sold drug substance from inventory on hand to a third party. Also during fiscal 2012, Medicure International engaged and initiated work with a contract manufacturing organization to establish a new source of the raw material for AGGRASTAT. This work with a contract manufacturing organization continued through fiscal 2013. The Company’s subsidiary, Medicure Pharma, Inc., has a third party manufacturer of the final product AGGRASTAT and that supply arrangement does not expire until July 1, 2015. If either the supply of raw material or the final product manufacturing agreement for AGGRASTAT is terminated or interrupted, or if the Company and its subsidiaries are unable to establish new or maintain existing third party manufacturers, or if the inventories of AGGRASTAT currently held are contaminated or otherwise lost, and the Company was unable to obtain a replacement supplier or manufacturer, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business prospects, financial results and financial condition. The Company may fail to obtain acceptable prices or appropriate reimbursement for its products and its ability to successfully commercialize its products may be impaired as a result. Government and insurance reimbursements for healthcare expenditures play an important role for all healthcare providers, including physicians, medical device companies, pharmaceutical companies, medical supply companies, and companies, such as the Company, that offer or plan to offer various products in the United States and other countries. The Company’s ability to earn sufficient returns on its products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products, related therapies and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations, and other organizations. In the United States, the Company’s ability to have its products and related treatments and therapies eligible for Medicare or private insurance reimbursement is and will remain an important factor in determining the ultimate success of its products. If, for any reason, Medicare or the insurance companies decline to provide reimbursement for the Company’s products and related treatments, the Company’s ability to commercialize its products would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that the Company’s products and related treatments will be eligible for reimbursement. 19 There has been a trend toward declining government and private insurance expenditures for many healthcare items. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. If purchasers or users of the Company’s products and related treatments are not able to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of using such products and related treatments, they may forgo or reduce such use. Even if the Company’s products and related treatments are approved for reimbursement by Medicare and private insurers, as is the case with AGGRASTAT, the amount of reimbursement may be reduced at times, or even eliminated. This would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage will be available. The Company does not have manufacturing experience and has limited marketing resources and may never be able to successfully manufacture or market certain of its products. The Company has no experience in commercial manufacturing and has limited resources for marketing or selling its products. The Company may never be able to successfully manufacture and market certain of its products. If any other of its development products are approved for sale, the Company intends to contract with and rely on third parties to manufacture, and possibly also to market and sell its products. Accordingly, the quality, timing and ultimately the commercial success of such products may be outside of the Company’s control. Failure of or delay by a third party manufacturer of the Company’s products to comply with good manufacturing practices or similar quality control regulations or satisfy regulatory inspections may have a material adverse effect on its future prospects. Failure of or delay by a third party in the marketing or selling of the Company’s products or failure of the Company to successfully market and sell such products likewise may have a material adverse effect on its future prospects. The Company has limited product liability insurance and may not be able to obtain adequate product liability insurance in the future. The sale and use of the Company’s commercial and development products, and the conduct of clinical studies involving human subjects, entails product and professional liability risks that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of new drugs to humans. While the Company has taken, and will continue to take, what it believes are appropriate precautions, there can be no assurance that it will avoid significant liability exposure. Although the Company currently carries product liability insurance for clinical trials, there can be no assurance that it has sufficient coverage, or can in the future obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost. An inability to obtain insurance on economically feasible terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit or prevent the commercialization of products developed by the Company. The obligation to pay any product liability claim or recall for a product may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and future prospects. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful, adverse publicity and the time and expense of defending such a claim may significantly interfere with the Company’s business. 20 If the Company is unable to successfully protect its proprietary rights, its competitive position will be adversely affected. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual issues. The Company’s success depends significantly on its ability to: · obtain and maintain U.S. and foreign patents, including defending those patents against adverse claims; · secure patent term extensions for the patents covering its approved products; · protect trade secrets; · operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others; and · prevent others from infringing its proprietary rights. The Company’s success will depend to a significant degree on its ability to obtain and protect its patents and protect its proprietary rights in unpatented trade secrets. The Company owns or jointly owns numerous patents from the United States Patent Office and other jurisdictions. The Company has additional pending United States patent applications along with applications pending in other jurisdictions. The Company’s pending and any future patent applications may not be accepted by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or any other jurisdiction in which applications may be filed. Also, processes or products that may be developed by the Company in the future may not be patentable. Errors or ill-advised decisions by Company staff and/or contracted patent agents may also affect the Company’s ability to obtain or maintain valid patent protection. The patent protection afforded to biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies is uncertain and involves many complex legal, scientific and factual questions. There is no clear law or policy involving the degree of protection afforded under patents. As a result, the scope of patents issued to the Company may not successfully prevent third parties from developing similar or competitive products. Competitors may develop similar or competitive products that do not conflict with the Company’s patents. Litigation may be commenced by the Company to prevent infringement of its patents. Litigation may also commence against the Company to challenge its patents that, if successful, may result in the narrowing or invalidating of such patents. It is not possible to predict how any patent litigation will affect the Company’s efforts to develop, manufacture or market its products. However, the cost of litigation to prevent infringement or uphold the validity of any patents issued to the Company may be significant, in which case its business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Patents provide protection for only a limited period of time, and much of such time can occur well before commercialization commences. The U.S. Congress is considering patent reform legislation. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. This combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained, and the Company’s ability to obtain patents in the future. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken the Company’s ability to obtain new patents or to enforce its existing patents and patents that it might obtain in the future. Disclosure and use of the Company’s proprietary rights in unpatented trade secrets not otherwise protected by patents are generally controlled by written agreements. However, such agreements will not provide the Company with adequate protection if they are not honoured, others independently develop an equivalent technology, disputes arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property, or its trade secrets are disclosed improperly. To the extent that consultants or other research collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work with the Company, disputes may also arise as to the rights to related or resulting know-how or inventions. 21 Others could claim that the Company infringes on their proprietary rights, which may result in costly, complex and time consuming litigation. The Company’s success will depend partly on its ability to operate without infringing upon the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. The Company is not currently aware that any of its products or processes infringes the proprietary rights of third parties. However, despite its best efforts, the Company may be sued for infringing on the patent or other proprietary rights of third parties at any time in the future. Such litigation, with or without merit, is time-consuming and costly and may significantly impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, even if it prevails. If the Company does not prevail, it may be required to stop the infringing activity or enter into a royalty or licensing agreement, in addition to any damages it may have to pay. The Company may not be able to obtain such a license or the terms of the royalty or license may be burdensome for it, which may significantly impair the Company’s ability to market its products and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to stringent governmental regulation, in the future may become subject to additional regulations and if it is unable to comply, its business may be materially harmed. Biotechnology, medical device, and pharmaceutical companies operate in a high-risk regulatory environment. The FDA and other national health agencies can be very slow to approve a product and can also withhold product approvals. In addition, these health agencies also oversee many other medical product operations, such as research and development, manufacturing, and testing and safety regulation of medical products. As a result, regulatory risk is normally higher than in other industry sectors. The Company is or may become subject to various federal, provincial, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations. The Company is subject to various laws and regulations in Canada, relating to product emissions, use and disposal of hazardous or toxic chemicals or potentially hazardous substances, infectious disease agents and other materials, and laboratory and manufacturing practices used in connection with its research and development activities. If the Company fails to comply with these regulations, it may be fined or suffer other consequences that could materially affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. The pharmaceutical sales and marketing industry within which the Company operates in a complex legal and regulatory environment. The failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings. As those rules and regulations change or as governmental interpretation of those rules and regulations evolve, prior conduct may be called into question. The Company may become subject of federal and/or state governmental investigations into pricing, marketing, and reimbursement of its prescription drug product. Any such investigation could result in related restitution or civil litigation on behalf of the federal or state governments, as well as related proceedings initiated against the Company by or on behalf of consumers and private payers. Such proceedings may result in trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of each violation of law. Criminal proceedings may also be initiated against the Company. Any of these consequences could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial results. 22 The Company is unable to predict the extent of future government regulations or industry standards. However, it should be assumed that government regulations or standards will increase in the future. New regulations or standards may result in increased costs, including costs for obtaining permits, delays or fines resulting from loss of permits or failure to comply with regulations. The Company’s products may not gain market acceptance, and as a result it may be unable to generate significant revenues. Except with respect to AGGRASTAT, the Company does not currently have the required manufacturing capabilities, clinical data and regulatory approvals necessary to successfully market its products under development in any jurisdiction; future clinical or preclinical results may be negative or insufficient to allow it to successfully market any of its products under development; and obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned, and may not be obtained at all. Even if the Company’s products under development are approved for sale, they may not be successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of any of the Company’s products will depend on a number of factors, including demonstration of clinical effectiveness and safety; the potential advantages of its products over alternative treatments; the availability of acceptable pricing and adequate third-party reimbursement; and the effectiveness of marketing and distribution methods for the products. Providers, payors or patients may not accept the Company’s products, even if they prove to be safe and effective and are approved for marketing by the FDA and other national regulatory authorities. The Company anticipates that it will take many years before its initial products may be sold commercially. If the Company’s products do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, and others in the medical community, its ability to generate significant revenues from its products would be limited. The Company may not achieve its projected development goals in the time frames it announces and expects. The Company sets goals for and may from time to time make public statements regarding timing of the accomplishment of objectives related to AGGRASTAT and/or its products under development, that are material to the Company’s success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory approval dates, and timing of product launch. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in the Company’s clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, and delays in achieving product development, manufacturing or marketing milestones necessary to commercialize its products. There can be no assurance that the Company’s clinical trials will be completed, that it will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned, or that it will be able to adhere to its current schedule for the scale-up of manufacturing and launch of any of its products. If the Company fails to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, that could materially affect its business, financial condition or results of operations and the price of its common shares could decline. The Company’s business involves the use of hazardous material, which requires it to comply with environmental regulations. The Company’s research and development processes and commercial activities may involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials and hazardous biological materials. The Company is subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although the Company believes that its safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, the Company could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed its resources. There can be no assurance that the Company will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, or that its business, financial condition, and results of operations will not be materially or adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. 23 The Company’s insurance may not provide adequate coverage with respect to environmental matters. Environmental regulation could have a material adverse effect on the results of the Company’s operations and its financial position. The Company is subject to a broad range of environmental regulations imposed by federal, state, provincial, and local governmental authorities. Such environmental regulation relates to, among other things, the handling and storage of hazardous materials, the disposal of waste, and the discharge of contaminants into the environment. Although the Company believes that it is in material compliance with applicable environmental regulation, as a result of the potential existence of unknown environmental issues and frequent changes to environmental regulation and the interpretation and enforcement thereof, there can be no assurance that compliance with environmental regulation or obligations imposed thereunder will not have a material adverse effect on the Company in the future. The Company operates in an industry that is more susceptible to legal proceedings. The Company may become involved in litigation. The Company operates in an industry consisting of firms that are more susceptible to legal proceedings than firms in other industries, due to the uncertainty and complex regulatory environment involved in the development and sale of pharmaceuticals. The Company intends to vigorously defend such actions if and when they arise. Defense and prosecution of legal claims can be expensive and time consuming, may adversely affect the Company regardless of the outcome due to the diversion of financial, management and other resources away from the Company’s primary operations, and could impact the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the longer term. In addition, a negative judgment against the Company, even if the Company is planning to appeal such a decision, or even a settlement in a case, could negatively affect the cash reserves of the Company, and could have a material negative effect on the development and sale of its products. Indemnification obligations to the Company’s directors and senior management may adversely affect its financial condition. The Company has entered into agreements pursuant to which it will indemnify the directors and senior management in respect of certain claims made against them while acting in their capacity as such. If the Company is called upon to perform its indemnity obligations, the Company’s financial condition will be adversely affected. The Company is not currently aware of any matters pending or under consideration that may result in indemnification payments to any of its present or former directors or senior management. The Company is exposed to foreign exchange movements since the majority of its commercial sales operations are denominated in U.S. currency. The majority of the Company’s sales revenues and a substantial portion of its selling, general and administrative expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company does not utilize derivatives, such as foreign currency forward contracts and futures contracts, to manage its exposure to currency risk and as a result a change in the value of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar could have a negative impact on the Company’s business prospects, financial results and financial condition. 24 The Company may need to raise additional capital through the sale of its securities, resulting in dilution to its existing shareholders. Such funds may not be available, or may not be available on reasonable terms, adversely affecting the Company’s operations. The Company has limited financial resources and has financed much of its operations through the sale of securities, primarily common shares. The Company has significant on-going cash expenses and limited ability to generate cash from operations. To meet its on-going cash needs the Company may need to rely on the sale of such securities for future financing, resulting in dilution to its existing shareholders. The Company’s long-term capital requirements may be notably significant and will depend on many factors, including continued scientific progress in its product discovery and development program, revenue, progress in the maintenance and expansion of its sales and marketing capabilities, progress in its pre-clinical and clinical evaluation of products and product candidates, time and expense associated with filing, prosecuting and enforcing its patent claims and costs associated with obtaining regulatory approvals. In order to meet such capital requirements, the Company will consider contract fees, collaborative research and development arrangements, public financing or additional private financing (including the issuance of additional equity securities) to fund all or a part of particular programs. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on its ability to obtain additional financing which may not be available under favourable terms, if at all. The Company’s ability to arrange such financing in the future will depend in part upon the prevailing capital market conditions as well as its business performance. Where additional financing is available, the Company may be required to obtain approval from the Company’s shareholders. Such approval may not be provided. The Company has not completed a financing through sale of its securities since fiscal 2008. The Company is listed on the TSX-V, which is a stock exchange based in Canada. Under policy 4.1 of the TSX-V’s Corporate Finance Manual, a listed company is not permitted to issue securities at less than $0.05 per share. As at May 31, 2013, the closing trading price for the Company’s shares was $0.20 and the Company’s shares have traded below that price. There can be no certainty that the share price will continue to trade regularly above the minimum share issuance price. To help address and reduce this risk, a consolidation of shares was completed on November 2, 2012 to reduce the total number of outstanding shares and thereby to increase the share price of their listed securities. If its capital resources are exhausted and adequate funds are not available, the Company may have to reduce substantially or eliminate expenditures for research and development, testing, production and marketing of its proposed products, or obtain funds through arrangements with corporate partners that require it to relinquish rights to certain of its technologies or products. The Company is exposed to risks given its significant dependence on revenue from the sale of its sole commercial product, AGGRASTAT. The Company has limited financial resources and is largely dependent upon revenue from the sale of its sole commercial product. The Company has significant on-going cash expenses, including commitments to advance research and development programs, however, the Company has limited ability to generate cash from other sources, such as financing through the sale of equity. If revenue from the sale of AGGRASTAT is not maintained or increased, the Company may have to reduce substantially or eliminate expenditures for research and development, testing, production and marketing of its proposed products, or obtain funds through arrangements with corporate partners that require it to relinquish rights to certain of its technologies or products. 25 Future issuance of the Company’s common shares will result in dilution to its existing shareholders. Additionally, future sales of the Company’s common shares into the public market may lower the market price which may result in losses to its shareholders. As of May 31, 2013, the Company had 12,196,508 common shares issued and outstanding. A further 1,421,352 common shares are issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and another 66,667 common shares are issuable upon exercise of share purchase warrants, all of which may be exercised in the future resulting in dilution to the Company’s shareholders. The Company’s stock option plan allows for the issuance of stock options to purchase up to a maximum of 15% of the outstanding common shares at any time. A consolidation of shares was completed on November 2, 2012 to reduce the total number of outstanding shares. During fiscal 2013, on May 10, 2013, the Company issued 463,000 stock options to certain directors, officers, employees, management company employees and consultants of the Company. During fiscal 2012, on July 18, 2011, the Company issued 3,509,336 common shares (52,640,043 re-consolidation common shares) and 836,133 stock options (12,542,000 pre-consolidated stock options) in conjunction with transactions announced on that date. Sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common shares into the public market, or even the perception by the market that such sales may occur, may lower the market price of its common shares. The Company’s common shares may experience extreme price and volume volatility which may result in losses to its shareholders. Effective at the opening of the market on November 2, 2012, the Company’s issued and outstanding common shares were consolidated on the basis of one post-consolidation common share for every fifteen pre-consolidation common shares. The Company's name and trading symbol did not change as a result of the consolidation. The Company’s common shares were reduced from 182,947,595 to 12,196,508 issued and outstanding as a result of the consolidation. On May 31, 2013, the Company’s common shares closed at a price of CDN$0.20 on the TSX-V. For the period from June 1, 2012 to November 1, 2012, the high and low closing trading prices of the Company’s common shares were CDN$0.045 and CDN$0.025, respectively, with a total trading volume of 7,768,350 shares. For the period from November 2, 2012 to May 31, 2013, the high and low closing trading prices of the Company’s common shares were CDN$0.67 and CDN$0.20, respectively, with a total trading volume of 653,564 shares. The Company’s shares were delisted from Amex on July 3, 2008 and from the TSX on March 26, 2010. From March 26, 2010 until October 21, 2011, shares of the Company traded on the NEX board of the TSX-V under the symbol “MPH.H”. On October 24, 2011 shares of the Company commenced trading on the TSX-V under the symbol “MPH”. 26 Daily trading volume on the TSX of the Company’s common shares for the period from June 1, 2012 to November 1, 2013 has fluctuated, with a high of 624,945 shares and a low of nil shares, averaging approximately 73,286 shares per trading day. Daily trading volume on the TSX of the Company’s common shares for the period from November 2, 2012 to May 31, 2013 has fluctuated, with a high of 30,040 shares and a low of nil shares, averaging approximately 4,416 shares per trading day. Accordingly, the trading price of the Company’s common shares may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors including announcement of material events by the Company, such as the status of required regulatory approvals for its products, competition by new products or new innovations, fluctuations in its operating results, general and industry-specific economic conditions and developments pertaining to patent and proprietary rights. The trading price of the Company’s common shares may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors and/or announcements concerning such factors, including: · actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; · litigation or threat of litigation; · failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates of individual investors and/or by securities analysts; · new or existing products or services or technological innovations by the Company or its competitors; · comments or opinions by securities analysts or major shareholders; · conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and life science industries; · significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · results of, and developments in, the Company’s research and development efforts, including results and adequacy of, and developments in, its clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval; · additions or departures of key personnel; · sales of the Company’s common shares, including by holders of the notes on conversion or repayment by the Company in common shares; · economic and other external factors or disasters or crises; · limited daily trading volume; and · developments regarding the Company’s patents or other intellectual property or that of its competitors. In addition, the securities markets in the United States and Canada have recently experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of biotechnology companies have experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. 27 There may not be an active, liquid market for the Company’s common shares. On March 26, 2010, the Company’s common shares were delisted from the TSX due to the Company’s inability to meet continued listing requirements. On March 29, 2010, the Company’s common shares commenced trading on the NEX board of the TSX-V under the symbol “MPH.H”. The shares continued trading on the NEX until October 21, 2011, at which time the trading of the Company’s shares was transferred to the TSX-V under the symbol “MPH”. The Company’s shares ceased trading on the Amex effective July 3, 2008. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for the Company’s common shares will be maintained on the TSX-V. Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in its common shares is not active. If there are substantial sales of the Company’s common shares, the market price of its common shares could decline. Sales of substantial numbers of the Company’s common shares could cause a decline in the market price of its common shares. Any sales by existing shareholders or holders of options or warrants may have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to raise capital and may adversely affect the market price of its common shares. The Company has no history of paying dividends, does not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and may never pay dividends. Since incorporation, the Company has not paid any cash or other dividends on its common shares and does not expect to pay such dividends in the foreseeable future as all available funds will be invested to finance the growth of its business. The Company will need to achieve profitability prior to any dividends being declared, which may never happen. If the Company is classified as a “passive foreign investment Company” for United States income tax purposes, it could have significant and adverse tax consequences to United States holders of its common shares. The Company does not believe that it was a “passive foreign investment Company” for the taxable year ended May 31, 2013, and does not expect that it will be a “passive foreign investment Company” (PFIC) for the taxable year ending May 31, 2014. (See more detailed discussion in Item 10E – Taxation) However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the determination made by the Company concerning its “passive foreign investment Company” status or that the Company will not be a “passive foreign investment Company” for the current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. Accordingly, although the Company expects that it may be a “Qualified Foreign Corporation” (QFC) for the taxable year ending May 31, 2014, there can be no assurances that the IRS will not challenge the determination made by the Company concerning its QFC status, that the Company will be a QFC for the taxable year ending May 31, 2014 or any subsequent taxable year, or that the Company will be able to certify that it is a QFC in accordance with the certification procedures issued by the Treasury and the IRS. The Company’s classification as a PFIC could have significant and adverse tax consequences for United States holders of its common shares. 28 The Company no longer has a shareholder rights plan. During fiscal 2012, the Company allowed its shareholder rights plan to expire. The provisions of such plan were intended to provide benefit to shareholders. Penny stock classification could affect the marketability of the Company's common shares and shareholders could find it difficult to sell their shares. The penny stock rules in the United States require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. Further, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules; the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These additional broker-dealer practices and disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the Company's common shares in the United States, and shareholders may find it more difficult to sell their shares. Risks associated with material weaknesses within the Company’s financial reporting and review process In connection with its review of the Company’s Internal Control over Financial Reporting, the Company has identified material weaknesses with the Company’s financial reporting and review process, involving the accounting and reporting for complex transactions, due to limited staff not allowing for appropriate reviews of such transactions. Any failure to remediate the material weaknesses, to implement the required new or improved control, or difficulties encountered in the implementation, could cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations on a timely basis or result in material misstatements in the annual or interim financial statements. Inadequate internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could cause the Company’s stock price to decline. 