D. Risk Factors The Corporation’s business entails significant risks. In addition to the usual risks associated with a business, the following is a general description of certain significant risk factors which are applicable to the Corporation. Prior to the acquisition of AGGRASTAT®, the Corporation had no products in commercial production or use. As such, the Corporation was considered to be a development-stage enterprise for accounting purposes prior to the acquisition. The Corporation expects to continue to incur substantial losses and may never achieve profitability, which in turn may harm its future operating performance and may cause the market price of its stock to decline. With the exception of AGGRASTAT®, the Corporation’s products are in the development stage and accordingly, its business operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment and maintenance of a developing business enterprise, such as those related to competition and viable operations management. The Corporation has incurred net losses every year since inception in 1997. As of May 31, 2007, the date of its last audited financial statements, the Corporation had an accumulated deficit of $77,830,952. The Corporation incurred net losses of $31,703,386 for the year ended May 31, 2007, $12,607,074 for the year ended May 31, 2006, $14,865,910 for the year ended May 31, 2005, $5,989,086 for the year ended May 31, 2004 and $4,193,688 for the year ended May 31, 2003. The Corporation anticipates that its losses will not only continue for the foreseeable future but will increase significantly, principally from expenditures relating to its research and development efforts and clinical trials. The long-term profitability of the Corporation’s operations is uncertain, and may never occur. The Corporation’s long-term profitability will be directly related to its ability to develop a commercially viable drug product or products. This in turn depends on numerous factors, including the following: a) the success of the Corporation’s research and development activities, including its drug discovery, preclinical and clinical development programs; 10 b) obtaining Canadian and United States regulatory approvals to market MC-1 and MC-4232, its lead products; c) the ability to contract for the manufacture of the Corporation’s products according to schedule and within budget, given that it has no experience in large scale manufacturing; d) the ability to successfully prosecute and defend its patents and other intellectual property; and e) the ability to successfully market the Corporation’s products including AGGRASTAT® (tirofiban hydrochloride), given that it has limited experience in marketing. If the Corporation does achieve profitability, it may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. The Corporation may never receive regulatory approval in Canada, the United States or abroad for any of its products developed. Therefore, the Corporation may not be able to sell any therapeutic products developed. The Corporation’s failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals to fully market its current and future therapeutic products in one or more significant markets may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The procedure involved in obtaining regulatory approval from the competent authorities to market therapeutic products is long and costly and may delay product development. The approval to market a product may be applicable to a limited extent only or it may be refused entirely. With the exception of AGGRASTAT®, all of the Corporation’s products are currently in the research and development stages. The Corporation may never have another commercially viable drug product approved for marketing. To obtain regulatory approvals for its products and to achieve commercial success, human clinical trials must demonstrate that the products are safe for human use and that they show efficacy. Even the Corporation’s most clinically advanced product, MC-1, is only currently being studied in critical Phase III clinical trials. Unsatisfactory results obtained from a particular study or clinical trial relating to one or more of the Corporation’s products may cause the Corporation to reduce or abandon its commitment to that program. If the Corporation fails to successfully complete its clinical trials, it will not obtain approval from the Canadian Therapeutic Products Directorate, formerly the Canadian Health Protection Branch (“TPD”), or from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), to market its leading product, MC-1 or its second clinical candidate, MC-4232. Regulatory approvals also may be subject to conditions that could limit the market for MC-1 or MC-4232 or make either product or both products more difficult or expensive to sell than anticipated. Also, regulatory approvals may be revoked at any time, including for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or poor performance of MC-1 or MC-4232 in terms of safety and effectiveness. The Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if it fails to obtain regulatory approvals in Canada, the United States and abroad to market and sell MC-1 or MC-4232 or any current or future drug products, including any limitations imposed on the marketing of such products. The Corporation may not be able to hire or retain the qualified scientific, technical and management personnel it requires. The Corporation has a contract with CanAm Bioresearch Inc. (“CanAm”) to perform for it a significant amount of its research and development activities. Because of the specialized scientific nature of the Corporation’s business, the loss of services of CanAm may require the Corporation to attract and retain replacement qualified scientific, technical and management personnel. Competition in the biotechnology industry for such personnel is intense and the Corporation may not be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel, which may compromise the pace and success of its research and development activities. Also, certain of the Corporation’s management personnel are officers and/or directors of other companies, some publicly-traded, and will only devote part of their time to the Corporation. The Corporation does 11 not have key person insurance in effect in the event of a loss of any management, scientific or other key personnel. The loss of any such personnel could pose serious challenges for the Corporation. The Corporation faces substantial technological competition from many biotechnology companies with much greater resources, and it may not be able to effectively compete. Technological and scientific competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is intense. The Corporation competes with other companies in Canada, the United States and abroad to develop products designed to treat similar conditions. Many of these other companies have substantially greater financial, technical and scientific research and development resources, manufacturing and production and sales and marketing capabilities than the Corporation. Small companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Developments by other companies may adversely affect the competitiveness of the Corporation’s products or technologies or the commitment of its research and marketing collaborators to its programs or even render its products obsolete. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is characterized by extensive drug discovery and drug research efforts and rapid technological and scientific change. Competition can be expected to increase as technological advances are made and commercial applications for biopharmaceutical products increase. The Corporation’s competitors may use different technologies or approaches to develop products similar to the products which it is developing, or may develop new or enhanced products or processes that may be more effective, less expensive, safer or more readily available before or after the Corporation obtains approval of its products. The Corporation may not be able to successfully compete with its competitors or their products and, if it is unable to do so, the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. The Corporation may be unable to establish collaborative and commercial relationships with third parties. The Corporation’s success will depend partly on its ability to enter into and to maintain various arrangements with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others for the research, development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing, sales and commercialization of its products. These relationships will be crucial to the Corporation’s intention to license to or contract with larger, international pharmaceutical companies the manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution of any products it may commercialize for production. To date, the Corporation has not entered into any such arrangements and may never be able to establish such arrangements on favourable terms. There can be no assurance that any licensing or other agreements will be established on favourable terms, if at all. The failure to establish successful collaborative arrangements may negatively impact the Corporation’s ability to develop and commercialize its products, and may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation has licensed certain technologies relating to products under development and may enter into future licensing agreements. The Corporation’s current licensing agreements contain provisions allowing the licensors to terminate such agreements if it becomes insolvent or breach the terms and conditions of the licensing agreements without rectifying such event of default in accordance with the agreement terms. The Corporation may fail to obtain acceptable prices or appropriate reimbursement for its products and its ability to successfully commercialize its products may be impaired as a result. Government and insurance reimbursements for healthcare expenditures play an important role for all healthcare providers, including physicians, medical device companies, drug companies, medical supply companies, and companies, such as the Corporation, that plan to offer various products in the United States and other countries in the future. The Corporation’s ability to earn sufficient returns on its products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products, related therapies and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations, and other organizations. In the United States, the Corporation’s ability to have its products and related treatments and therapies eligible for Medicare or 12 private insurance reimbursement will be an important factor in determining the ultimate success of its products. If, for any reason, Medicare or the insurance companies decline to provide reimbursement for the Corporation’s products and related treatments, the Corporation’s ability to commercialize its products would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that the Corporation’s products and related treatments will be eligible for reimbursement. There has been a trend toward declining government and private insurance expenditures for many healthcare items. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. If purchasers or users of the Corporation’s products and related treatments are not able to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of using such products and related treatments, they may forgo or reduce such use. Even if the Corporation’s products and related treatments are approved for reimbursement by Medicare and private insurers, of which there can be no assurance, the amount of reimbursement may be reduced at times, or even eliminated. This would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage will be available. Substantial cash payments may be required under the terms of the Corporation’s borrowings upon an event of default or change of control. Such cash payments may leave the Corporation with little or no working capital in the business or make us insolvent. In August 2006, the Corporation entered into a term loan financing facility totaling approximately US$15.84 million with a syndicate of lenders, led by Merrill Lynch Capital Canada Inc., and including Silicon Valley Bank and Oxford Finance Corporation (the “Credit Facility”). Under the Credit Facility, the Corporation’s lenders may require that all or a portion of the principal amount of the Credit Facility be repaid in cash upon the occurrence of various customary events of default (subject to certain cure periods), including but not limited to: the failure to pay principal, fees and/or interest due under the Credit Facility; the suspension of the Corporation’s common shares from trading on the TSX and AMEX; the issuance of any judgments or orders against the Corporation for the payment of money (not paid or fully covered by insurance) in an aggregate amount in excess of US$375,000; any material default under any indebtedness of the Corporation in an aggregate principal amount exceeding US$375,000; any breach of any term of the credit and security agreement under which the Credit Facility was extended or in any other document delivered pursuant thereto; a default under any guarantee of the Credit Facility; an unpermitted payment by any obligor under the Credit Facility on account of any debt that has been subordinated to the Credit Facility; the occurrence of any fact, event or circumstance that could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect; and actual or anticipated (such anticipation by the lenders to be based on their reasonable judgment based on information received from the Corporation) breach of certain financial covenants (including a requirement that the Corporation achieve certain minimum net revenue targets from the sale of AGGRASTAT® as at December 31 of each year during the term of the Credit Facility). 13 In August 2007, the Corporation agreed to an amendment with its existing lenders to certain of the covenants provided for in its credit agreement, dated August 8, 2006. The lenders and the Corporation have agreed, subject to certain conditions: i) From and after August 17, 2007, but no later than April 30, 2008, the Corporation shall receive additional cash for working capital in a total aggregate amount of at least US$35 million from any and/or a combination of any of the sources described above, provided that (1) at least US$15 million of such aggregate amount must be received by the Corporation no later than September 30, 2007 and (2) a further US$15 million of such aggregate amount must be received by the Corporation no later than February 28, 2008 and (3) a further US$5 million of such aggregate amount must be received by the Corporation no later than April 30, 2008. The Corporation intends that the additional cash to meet this test will come from the subscription agreement and term sheet described above. (ii) To amend the credit agreement such that the Corporation is required to achieve the following minimum net revenue requirements from sales of AGGRASTAT®: Calendar 2007 - nil Calendar 2008 - US$15 million Calendar 2009 - US$23 million (iii) The Corporation will deposit US$10 million in a cash collateral account to be held by Merrill Lynch Capital Inc. (Merrill), for the benefit of Merrill and the lenders, on closing of the financing transactions described above. As disclosed in “Item 8B – Financial Information – Significant Changes” below, subsequent to May 31, 2007 the Corporation entered into two non-binding agreements that would, if they close, provide the Corporation with additional working capital totaling US$40 million. The Corporation anticipates that it will meet the working capital covenant described above upon the closing of the above financings. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, the interest rate on the Credit Facility will be increased by 1.5% . The lenders under the Credit Facility may also require all or a portion of the Credit Facility be redeemed in cash upon a change of control. The Corporation has not established a sinking fund for payment of the Credit Facility, nor does it anticipate doing so. The Corporation’s substantial debt could impair its financial condition. The Corporation is highly leveraged and has substantial debt service obligations. As of May 31, 2007, the Corporation had approximately US$15.84 million of principal indebtedness outstanding under the Credit Facility that bears interest at a floating rate at one-month LIBOR plus 6.5% per annum. This substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for the Corporation. For example, it could: increase the Corporation’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases to interest rates; impair the Corporation’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes; require the Corporation to dedicate a significant portion of its existing cash and proceeds from any future financing transactions to the payment of principal and interest on its debt, which would reduce the funds available for its operations; 14 limit the Corporation’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industry in which it operates; and place the Corporation at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt. Despite current indebtedness levels and the terms of the Credit Facility, the Corporation may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with the Corporation’s substantial leverage. Despite current indebtedness levels and the terms of the Credit Facility, the Corporation may still be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Under the Credit Facility, the Corporation is permitted to incur, among other types of indebtedness, indebtedness that is subordinate to the Credit Facility. If new debt is added to the Corporation’s current debt levels, the related risks that it now faces could increase. The Corporation has agreed to guarantee certain annual minimum payments and other obligations under the proposal letter with Manchester Securities Corp., an affiliate of Elliott Associates L.P. (“Elliott”). On August 20, 2007, the Corporation executed a non-binding term sheet with Elliott (the “Term Sheet”) pursuant to which the Corporation would grant to Elliott the right to receive royalties on future sales of AGGRASTAT® for an upfront payment of US $25 million (the “Proposed Transaction”). Under the terms of the Proposed Transaction, Elliott would receive an escalating minimum annual return based on AGGRASTAT® revenue until 2019. The minimum annual returns start at US$2.5 million in 2007 and escalate to US$6.9 Million in 2016. The exact percentage of AGGRASTAT® or MC-1 revenue that Elliott will receive is tiered and declines as certain revenue levels are achieved. To secure its obligation pursuant to the Proposed Transaction, the Corporation will grant to Elliott a first priority security interest in the Corporation’s patents for AGGRASTAT® and MC-1. There is no assurance that the Corporation will have sufficient funds or assets to cover such payments. Failure to make minimum payments or perform other obligations pursuant to the Proposed Transaction may result in a default under the proposed security agreement with Elliott, which, if not cured, could impair the Corporation’s ownership of its patents. This would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation. Under the Proposed Transaction, Elliott would have the option to convert its royalty interest from AGGRASTAT® to MC-1 within six months of successful commercialization of MC-1 by the Corporation, if achieved. Upon conversion to MC-1, Elliott is entitled to a blended return of approximately 7% on the first US$75 Million in MC-1 revenues and 3% thereafter. The Proposed Transaction will also include an option for the Corporation to terminate the agreement for a payment of US $70 million to Elliott if the U.S. Food & Drug Administration approves MC-1 for sale to the public. The closing of the Proposed Transaction will be subject to the receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals and other conditions of closing. There can be no assurance that the Proposed Transaction will close. The Corporation does not have manufacturing or marketing experience and may never be able to successfully manufacture or market its products. The Corporation has no experience in large-scale manufacturing and in marketing or selling its products and may never be able to successfully manufacture and market its products. If the TPD or FDA approves MC-1, MC-4232 or any other of its products, the Corporation intends to contract with and rely on third parties to manufacture, market and sell its products. Accordingly, the quality, timing and ultimately the commercial success of such products may be outside of the Corporation’s control. Failure of or delay by a third party manufacturer of the Corporation’s products to comply with good manufacturing practices or similar quality control regulations or satisfy regulatory inspections may have a material adverse effect on 15 its future prospects. Failure of or delay by a third party in the marketing or selling of the Corporation’s products likewise may have a material adverse effect on its future prospects. The Corporation has limited product liability insurance and may not be able to obtain adequate product liability insurance in the future. The sale and use of products under development by the Corporation, and the conduct of clinical studies involving human subjects, may entail product and professional liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of new drugs to humans. While the Corporation has taken, and will continue to take, what it believes are appropriate precautions, there can be no assurance that it will avoid significant liability exposure. Although the Corporation currently carries product liability insurance for clinical trials, there can be no assurance that it has sufficient coverage, or can in the future obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost. An inability to obtain insurance on economically feasible terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit or prevent the commercialization of products developed by the Corporation. The obligation to pay any product liability claim or recall a product may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and future prospects. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful, adverse publicity and the time and expense of defending such a claim may significantly interfere with the Corporation’s business. If the Corporation is unable to successfully protect its proprietary rights, its competitive position will be adversely affected. The Corporation’s success will depend partly on its ability to obtain and protect its patents and protect its proprietary rights in unpatented trade secrets. The Corporation owns or jointly owns 38 United States patents. The Corporation has additional pending United States patent applications. The Corporation’s pending and any future patent applications may not be accepted by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or any other jurisdiction in which applications may be filed. Also, processes or products that may be developed by the Corporation in the future may not be patentable. The patent protection afforded to biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies is uncertain and involves many complex legal, scientific and factual questions. There is no clear law or policy involving the degree of protection afforded under patents. As a result, the scope of patents issued to the Corporation may not successfully prevent third parties from developing similar or competitive products. Competitors may develop similar or competitive products that do not conflict with the Corporation’s patents. Litigation may be commenced by the Corporation to prevent infringement of its patents. Litigation may also commence against the Corporation to challenge its patents that, if successful, may result in the narrowing or invalidating of such patents. It is not possible to predict how any patent litigation will affect the Corporation’s efforts to develop, manufacture or market its products. However, the cost of litigation to prevent infringement or uphold the validity of any patents issued to the Corporation may be significant, in which case its business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Patents provide protection for only a limited period of time, and much of such time can occur well before commercialization commences. Disclosure and use of the Corporation’s proprietary rights in unpatented trade secrets not otherwise protected by patents are generally controlled by written agreements. However, such agreements will not provide the Corporation with adequate protection if they are not honoured, others independently develop an equivalent technology, disputes arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property, or its trade secrets are disclosed improperly. To the extent that consultants or other research collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work with the Corporation, disputes may also arise as to the rights to related or resulting know-how or inventions. Others could claim that the Corporation infringes on their proprietary rights, which may result in costly, complex and time consuming litigation. The Corporation’s success will depend partly on its ability to operate without infringing upon the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. The Corporation is not currently aware that any of its 16 products or processes infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. However, despite its best efforts, the Corporation may be sued for infringing on the patent or other proprietary rights of third parties at any time in the future. Such litigation, with or without merit, is time-consuming and costly and may significantly impact the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations, even if it prevails. If the Corporation does not prevail, it may be required to stop the infringing activity or enter into a royalty or licensing agreement, in addition to any damages it may have to pay. The Corporation may not be able to obtain such a license or the terms of the royalty or license may be burdensome for it, which may significantly impair the Corporation’s ability to market its products and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation is subject to stringent governmental regulation, in the future may become subject to additional regulations and if it is unable to comply, its business may be materially harmed. Biotechnology, medical device, and pharmaceutical companies operate in a high-risk regulatory environment. The TPD, FDA, and other health agencies can be very slow to approve a product and can also withhold product approvals. In addition, these health agencies also oversee many other medical product operations, such as research and development, manufacturing, and testing and safety regulation of medical products. As a result, regulatory risk is normally higher than in other industry sectors. The Corporation is or may become subject to various federal, provincial, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations. The Corporation is subject to various laws and regulations in Canada, relating to product emissions, use and disposal of hazardous or toxic chemicals or potentially hazardous substances, infectious disease agents and other materials, and laboratory and manufacturing practices used in connection with its research and development activities. If the Corporation fails to comply with these regulations, it may be fined or suffer other consequences that could materially affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. The Corporation is unable to predict the extent of future government regulations or industry standards. However, it should be assumed that government regulations or standards will increase in the future. New regulations or standards may result in increased costs, including costs for obtaining permits, delays or fines resulting from loss of permits or failure to comply with regulations. The Corporation’s products may not gain market acceptance, and as a result it may be unable to generate significant revenues. The Corporation does not currently have the required clinical data and results to successfully market its product candidates in any jurisdiction; future clinical or preclinical results may be negative or insufficient to allow it to successfully market any of its product candidates; and obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned, and may not be obtained at all. Even if the Corporation’s products are approved for sale, they may not be successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of any of the Corporation’s products will depend on a number of factors, including demonstration of clinical effectiveness and safety; the potential advantages of its products over alternative treatments; the availability of acceptable pricing and adequate third-party reimbursement; and the effectiveness of marketing and distribution methods for the products. Providers, payors or patients may not accept the Corporation’s products, even if they prove to be safe and effective and are approved for marketing by the TPD, the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The Corporation estimates that it may take up to two years or longer before its initial products may be sold commercially. If the Corporation’s products do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, and others in the medical community, its ability to generate significant revenues from its products would be limited. The Corporation may not achieve its projected development goals in the time frames it announces and expects. The Corporation sets goals for and makes public statements regarding timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to its success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated 17 regulatory approval dates, and time of product launch. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in the Corporation’s clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, and delays in achieving product development, manufacturing or marketing milestones necessary to commercialize its products. There can be no assurance that the Corporation’s clinical trials will be completed, that it will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned, or that it will be able to adhere to its current schedule for the scale-up of manufacturing and launch of any of its products. If the Corporation fails to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, that could materially affect its business, financial condition or results of operations and the price of its common shares could decline. The Corporation’s business involves the use of hazardous material, which requires it to comply with environmental regulations. Although the Corporation does not currently manufacture commercial quantities of its products, the Corporation produces limited quantities of such products for its clinical trials. The Corporation’s research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials and hazardous biological materials. The Corporation is subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although the Corporation believes that its safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, the Corporation could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed its resources. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, or that its business, financial condition, and results of operations will not be materially or adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. The Corporation’s insurance may not provide adequate coverage with respect to environmental matters. Environmental regulation could have a material adverse effect on the results of the Corporation’s operations and its financial position. The Corporation is subject to a broad range of environmental regulations imposed by federal, state, provincial, and local governmental authorities. Such environmental regulation relates to, among other things, the handling and storage of hazardous materials, the disposal of waste, and the discharge of contaminants into the environment. Although the Corporation believes that it is in material compliance with applicable environmental regulation, as a result of the potential existence of unknown environmental issues and frequent changes to environmental regulation and the interpretation and enforcement thereof, there can be no assurance that compliance with environmental regulation or obligations imposed thereunder will not have a material adverse effect on the Corporation in the future. The Corporation will need to raise additional capital through the sale of its securities, resulting in dilution to its existing shareholders. Such funds may not be available, or may not be available on reasonable terms, adversely affecting the Corporation’s operations. The Corporation has limited financial resources and has financed its operations through the sale of securities, primarily common shares. The Corporation has significant on-going cash expenses and no ability to generate cash from operations. To meet its on-going cash needs the Corporation will need to continue its reliance on the sale of such securities for future financing, resulting in dilution to its existing shareholders. The Corporation’s long-term capital requirements may be notably significant and will depend on many factors, including continued scientific progress in its product discovery and development program, progress in its pre-clinical and clinical evaluation of products and product candidates, time and expense associated with filing, prosecuting and enforcing its patent claims and costs associated with obtaining regulatory approvals. In order to meet such capital requirements, the Corporation will consider contract fees, collaborative research and development arrangements, public financing or additional private financing (including the issuance of additional equity securities) to fund all or a part of particular programs. 18 The Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on its ability to obtain additional financing which may not be available under favourable terms, if at all. The Corporation’s ability to arrange such financing in the future will depend in part upon the prevailing capital market conditions as well as its business performance. If its capital resources are exhausted and adequate funds are not available, the Corporation may have to reduce substantially or eliminate expenditures for research and development, testing, production and marketing of its proposed products, or obtain funds through arrangements with corporate partners that require it to relinquish rights to certain of its technologies or products. As disclosed in “Item 8B – Financial Information – Significant Changes” below, subsequent to May 31, 2007 the Corporation entered into two non-binding agreements that would, if they close, provide the Corporation with additional working capital totaling US$40 million. Future issuance of the Corporation’s common shares will result in dilution to its existing shareholders. Additionally, future sales of the Corporation’s common shares into the public market may lower the market price which may result in losses to its shareholders. As of May 31, 2007, the Corporation had 116,314,509, common shares issued and outstanding. A further 4,235,528 common shares are issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and another 10,691,468 common shares are issuable upon exercise of share purchase warrants, all of which may be exercised in the future resulting in dilution to the Corporation’s shareholders. The Corporation’s stock option plan allows for the issuance of stock options to purchase up to a maximum of 7,200,000 common shares at any time. The common shares to be issued upon exercise of the outstanding options and warrants will be freely tradable and not subject to any hold period when issued. Sales of substantial amounts of the Corporation’s common shares into the public market, or even the perception by the market that such sales may occur, may lower the market price of its common shares. The Corporation’s common shares may experience extreme price and volume volatility which may result in losses to its shareholders. On May 31, 2007, the Corporation’s common shares closed at a price of CDN$1.23 on the TSX and US$1.14 on the AMEX. For the period from June 1, 2006 to May 31, 2007, the high and low trading prices of the Corporation’s common shares on the TSX were CDN$1.88 and CDN$1.10, respectively, with a total trading volume of 34,840,400 shares. For the period from June 1, 2006 to May 31, 2007, the high and low trading prices of the Corporation’s common shares on the AMEX were US$1.70 and US$0.91, respectively, with a total trading volume of 26,426,800. Daily trading volume on the TSX of the Corporation’s common shares for the period from June 1, 2006 to May 31, 2007 has fluctuated, with a high of 617,500 shares and a low of 13,800 shares, averaging approximately 138,256 shares. Daily trading volume on the AMEX in the Corporation’s common shares for the period from June 1, 2006 to May 31, 2007 has fluctuated with a high of 939,700 and a low of 3,800, averaging approximately 105,286. Accordingly, the trading price of the Corporation’s common shares may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors including announcement of material events by the Corporation such as the status of required regulatory approvals for its products, competition by new products or new innovations, fluctuations in its operating results, general and industry-specific economic conditions and developments pertaining to patent and proprietary rights. The trading price of the Corporation’s common shares may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors and/or announcements concerning such factors, including: actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; litigation or threat of litigation; failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; new or existing products or services or technological innovations by the Corporation or its competitors; 19 comments or opinions by securities analysts or major shareholders; conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and life science industries; significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; results of, and developments in, the Corporation’s research and development efforts, including results and adequacy of, and developments in, its clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval; additions or departures of key personnel; sales of the Corporation’s common shares, including by holders of the notes on conversion or repayment by the Corporation in common shares; economic and other external factors or disasters or crises; limited daily trading volume; and developments regarding the Corporation’s patents or other intellectual property or that of its competitors. In addition, the securities markets in the United States and Canada have recently experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of biotechnology companies have experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. In addition, because of the limited public float, there may be limited liquidity for the Corporation’s common shares. It is expected that such fluctuations in price and limited liquidity will continue in the foreseeable future which may make it difficult for a shareholder to sell shares at a price equal to or above the price at which the shares were purchased. There may not be an active, liquid market for the Corporation’s common shares. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for the Corporation’s common shares will be maintained on AMEX or the TSX. Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in its common shares is not active. If there are substantial sales of the Corporation’s common shares, the market price of its common shares could decline. Sales of substantial numbers of the Corporation’s common shares could cause a decline in the market price of its common shares. Any sales by existing shareholders or holders of options or warrants may have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s ability to raise capital and may adversely affect the market price of its common shares. The Corporation may be unable to meet its obligations under the outstanding Credit Facility. As of May 31, 2007, the Corporaton had approximately US$15.84 million of principal indebtedness outstanding under the Credit Facility, which bears interest at one-month LIBOR plus 6.5 percent per annum. The term of the Credit Facility is over 42 months, with interest due and payable at commencement of the loan payable on the first day of the month. Commencing in June 2007, principal is payable monthly on a straight-line amortization schedule over 33 consecutive monthly installments. There is no guarantee that the Corporation will be able to meet its obligations under the Credit Facility. The Corporation has no history of paying dividends, does not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and may never pay dividends. Since incorporation, the Corporation has not paid any cash or other dividends on its common shares and do not expect to pay such dividends in the foreseeable future as all available funds will be invested to 20 finance the growth of its business. The Corporation will need to achieve profitability prior to any dividends being declared, which may never happen. The Corporation is likely to be classified as a “passive foreign investment company” for United States income tax purposes, which could have significant and adverse tax consequences to United States holders of its common shares. The Corporation was a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) in the 2006 taxable year and the Corporation believes there is a significant likelihood that it will be classified as a PFIC in the 2007 taxable year and possibly in subsequent years. The Corporation’s classification as a PFIC could have significant and adverse tax consequences for United States holders of its common shares. It may be possible for United States holders of the Corporation’s common shares to mitigate these consequences by making a so-called “qualified electing fund” election. (See “Certain Income Tax Consequences” below.) The Corporation has adopted a shareholder rights plan. The Corporation has adopted a shareholder rights plan. The provisions of such plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of the Corporation’s outstanding common shares, the effect of which may be to deprive the Corporation’s shareholders of a control premium that might otherwise be realized in connection with an acquisition of its common shares. 