Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Any or all of the risks listed below as well as other variables affecting our operating results could have a material adverse effect on our business, our quarterly and annual operating results or financial condition, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline or cause substantial volatility in our stock price, in which event the value of your common stock could decline. You should also keep these risk factors in mind when you read forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Business Model We cannot assure you that we will be profitable. In the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, we generated net income of $5.2 million, $13.2 million and $3.3 million. Although we were profitable in 2009, 2010 and 2011, there is no assurance that we will continue to be profitable in the future. We forecast our future expense levels based on our operating plans and our estimates of future revenues. We may find it necessary to significantly accelerate expenditures relating to our sales and marketing efforts or otherwise increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand awareness among Internet users and advertisers. If our revenues grow at a slower rate than we anticipate, or if our spending levels exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted to reflect slower revenue growth, we may not generate sufficient revenues to be profitable. Any of these developments could result in a significant decrease in the trading price of our common stock. Fluctuations in our operating results may negatively impact our stock price. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect our revenues or our expenses in any particular period. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. Factors that may affect our results include: • mismatches between resource allocation and advertiser demand due to difficulties in predicting advertiser demand in a new market; • changes in general economic conditions that could affect marketing efforts in general and online marketing efforts in particular; • the magnitude and timing of marketing initiatives, including our acquisition of new subscribers and our expansion efforts in other regions; 10 Table of Contents • the introduction, development, timing, competitive pricing and market acceptance of our products and services and those of our competitors; • our ability to attract and retain key personnel; • our ability to manage our anticipated growth and expansion; • our ability to attract traffic to our websites; • technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet generally or the operation of our products and services specifically; • payments which we may make to previous stockholders of Travelzoo.com Corporation who failed to submit requests for shares in Travelzoo Inc. within the required time period, or escheat claims related to shares not issued in the Company’s merger with Travelzoo.com Corporation; and • volatility of our operating results in new markets. We may significantly increase our operating expenses related to advertising campaigns for Travelzoo for a certain period if we see a unique opportunity for a brand marketing campaign, if we find it necessary to respond to increased brand marketing by a competitor, or if we decide to accelerate our acquisition of new subscribers. If revenues fall below our expectations in any quarter and we are unable to quickly reduce our operating expenses in response, our operating results would be lower than expected and our stock price may fall. Our expansion of our product offering to include Local Deals format may result in additional costs that exceed revenue and may trigger additional stock volatility. During the third quarter of 2010, we launched our Local Deals format of advertising, under which we sell vouchers directly to consumers to advertise promotional deals provided by merchants. For example, a consumer could buy a voucher for $99 for a dinner for two at a merchant’s restaurant that would normally be valued at $199, representing a promotional value of $100 to the consumer. This format involves several aspects that are new to us, and will require investments to maintain and grow the business including additional sales force hiring, building a customer service organization, marketing, technology tracking systems and payment processing. This format, introduced to the market in recent years, has resulted in many competitors entering the marketplace, thereby creating a very competitive marketplace. This competitive landscape along with the required investments to start, maintain and grow this format create a risk that our costs may exceed our revenues in the short and long term, which may materially impact our results of operation and financial condition. Operating this format may introduce additional volatility to our stock price due to the performance of this format by the Company and/or the overall market valuations that are being determined by the market for companies operating this format of advertising. Our business model may not be adaptable to a changing market. Our current revenue model depends on advertising fees paid primarily by travel, entertainment and local companies. If current advertisers decide not to continue advertising their offers with us and we are unable to replace them with new advertisers, our business may be adversely affected. To be successful, we must provide online marketing solutions that achieve broad market acceptance by travel, entertainment and local companies. In addition, we must attract sufficient Internet users with attractive demographic characteristics to our products. It is possible that we will be required to further adapt our business model in response to changes in the online advertising market or if our current business model is not successful. If we are not able to anticipate changes in the online advertising market or if our business model is not successful, our business could be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents If we fail to retain existing advertisers or add new advertisers, our revenue and business will be harmed. We depend on our ability to attract and retain advertisers (hotels, spas, restaurants, vacation packagers, airlines, etc.) that are prepared to offer products or services on compelling terms to our subscribers. We do not have long-term arrangements to guarantee the availability of deals that offer attractive quality, value and variety to consumers or favorable payment terms to us. We must continue to attract and retain advertisers in order to increase revenue and maintain profitability. If new advertisers do not find our marketing and promotional services effective, or if existing advertisers do not believe that utilizing our products provides them with a long-term increase in customers, revenue or profit, they may stop making offers through our marketplace. In addition, we may experience attrition in our advertisers in the ordinary course of business resulting from several factors, including losses to competitors and advertiser closures or bankruptcies. If we are unable to attract new advertisers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, or if too many advertisers are unwilling to offer products or services with compelling terms to our subscribers or offer favorable payment terms to us, we may sell less advertising, and our operating results will be adversely affected. Our existing advertisers may shift from one advertising service to another, which may adversely affect our revenue. Existing advertisers may shift from one advertising service (e.g. Top 20) to another (e.g. Local Deals and Getaways). These shifts between advertising services by advertisers could result in no incremental revenue or less revenue than in previous periods depending on the amount purchased by the advertisers, and in particular with Local Deals and Getaways, depending on how many vouchers are purchased by subscribers. An increase in our refund rates related to our Local Deals and Getaways could reduce our liquidity and profitability. We provide refunds related to our Local Deals and Getaways voucher sales. As we increase our revenue, our refund rates may exceed our historical levels. A downturn in general economic conditions may also increase our refund rates. An increase in our refund rates could significantly reduce our liquidity and profitability. As we do not have control over our merchants and the quality of products or services they deliver, we rely on a combination of our historical experience with our merchants over time and the type of refunds provided for development of our estimate for refund claims. Our actual level of refund claims could prove to be greater than the level of refund claims we estimate. If our refund reserves are not adequate to cover future refund claims, this inadequacy could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability. Our standard agreements with our merchants generally limit the time period during which we may seek reimbursement for subscriber refunds or claims. Our subscribers may make claims for refunds with respect to which we are unable to seek reimbursement from our merchants. Our inability to seek reimbursement from our merchants for refund claims could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability. If our advertisers do not meet the needs and expectations of our subscribers, our business could suffer. Our business depends on our reputation for providing high-quality deals, and our brand and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by advertisers that are outside our control. In particular, this is the case with our Local Deals and Getaways merchants, since we are selling vouchers , on behalf of the merchants, directly to our subscribers as opposed to the remainder of our business in which we are only collecting the advertising fee from the advertiser and the subscribers are booking the deal directly with the advertiser. Any shortcomings of one or more of our merchants, particularly with respect to an issue affecting the quality of the deal offered or the products or services sold, may be attributed by our subscribers to us, thus damaging our reputation, brand value and potentially affecting our results of operations. In addition, negative publicity and subscriber sentiment generated as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by our merchants could damage our reputation, reduce our ability to attract new subscribers or retain our current subscribers, and diminish the value of our brand. 12 Table of Contents Our business relies heavily on email and other messaging services, and any restrictions on the sending of emails or messages or a decrease in subscriber willingness to receive messages could adversely affect our revenue and business. Our business is highly dependent upon email and other messaging services. Deals offered through emails and other messages sent by us, or on our behalf by our affiliates, generate a substantial portion of our revenue. Because of the importance of email and other messaging services to our businesses, if we are unable to successfully deliver emails or messages to our subscribers or potential subscribers, or if subscribers decline to open our emails or messages, our revenue and profitability would be adversely affected. Actions by third parties to block, impose restrictions on, or charge for the delivery of, emails or other messages could also materially and adversely impact our business. From time to time, internet service providers block bulk email transmissions or otherwise experience technical difficulties that result in our inability to successfully deliver emails or other messages to third parties. In addition, our use of email and other messaging services to send communications about our website or other matters may result in legal claims against us, which if successful might limit or prohibit our ability to send emails or other messages. Any disruption or restriction on the distribution of emails or other messages or any increase in the associated costs would materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Our total number of subscribers may be higher than the number of our actual individual subscribers and may not be representative of the number of persons who are active potential customers. Our total number of subscribers may be higher than the number of our actual individual subscribers because some subscribers have multiple registrations, other subscribers have died or become incapacitated and others may have registered under fictitious names. Given the challenges inherent in identifying these subscribers, we do not have a reliable system to accurately identify the number of actual individual subscribers, and thus we rely on the number of total subscribers as our measure of the size of our subscriber base. In addition, the number of subscribers includes the total number of individuals that have completed registration through a specific date, less individuals who have unsubscribed. The number of subscribers may include individuals who do not receive our emails because our emails have been blocked or are otherwise undeliverable. As a result, the number of subscribers should not be considered as representative of the number of persons who continue to actively consider our deals by reviewing our email offers. We may not be able to obtain sufficient funds to grow our business and any additional financing may be on terms adverse to your interests. For the year ended December 31, 2011 our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $2.4 million to $38.7 million. We intend to continue to grow our business, and intend to fund our current operations and anticipated growth from the cash on hand. However, this may not be sufficient to meet our needs. We may not be able to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully promote our brand name, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of business opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we choose to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, you may experience significant dilution of your ownership interest, and holders of the additional equity securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we obtain additional financing by issuing debt securities, the terms of these securities could restrict or prevent us from paying dividends and could limit our flexibility in making business decisions. 13 Table of Contents Our business may be sensitive to recessions. The demand for online advertising may be linked to the level of economic activity and employment in the U.S. and abroad. Specifically, our business is dependent on the demand for online advertising from travel, entertainment and local companies. The recent recession decreased consumer travel and entertainment purchases and caused travel, entertainment and local companies to reduce or postpone their marketing spending generally, and their online marketing spending in particular. Continued or future recessions could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our operations could be significantly hindered by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our operations are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, unexpected technical problems in the systems that power our websites and distribute our e-mail newsletters, break-ins and similar events. In addition, a significant portion of our network infrastructure is located in Northern California, an area susceptible to earthquakes. We do not have multiple site capacity in the event of any such occurrence. Outages could cause significant interruptions of our service. In addition, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. We do not carry business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. Technological or other assaults on our service could harm our business. We are vulnerable to coordinated attempts to overload our systems with data, which could result in denial or reduction of service to some or all of our users for a period of time. We have experienced denial of service attacks in the past, and may experience such attempts in the future. Any such event could reduce our revenue and harm our operating results and financial condition. We do not carry business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. We are subject to payments-related risks. We accept payments for the sale of vouchers using a variety of methods, including credit cards and debit cards. We pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating expenses and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards and debit cards, and it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. Moreover, under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a security breach of payment card information that we store, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. If one or more of these agreements are terminated and we are unable to replace them on similar terms, or at all, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Markets and Strategy Our international expansion may result in substantial operating losses, and is subject to other material risks. In May 2005, we began operations in the U.K. In 2006 we began operations in Canada, Germany and Spain. In 2007, we began operations in France. 14 Table of Contents Although our revenues in Europe increased 58% in 2011 compared to 2010, and our operations in Europe generated a profit of $4.9 million during the 2011 fiscal year, our operations in Europe incurred losses of $1.8 million in 2010, primarily as a result of significant expenses related to subscriber acquisition and the launch of Fly.com. We intend to continue adding a significant number of subscribers in selected countries in which we operate as we believe this is one of the factors that will allow us to increase our advertising rates and increase our revenues in Europe. If we incur losses from our operations in Europe in the future, these losses may not have any recognizable tax benefit. We expect this will have a material negative impact on our net income and cash flows. Any of these developments could result in a significant decrease in the trading price of our common stock. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to generate net income from our foreign operations and expand our international market position, there are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; • difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; • stringent local labor laws and regulations; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • risks related to government regulation; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. If current economic conditions in Europe do not improve or deteriorate further due to the adverse effects of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis, advertisers may delay or reduce advertising or marketing spending. This could result in reductions in sales of our services, longer sales cycles, and increased price competition. We may not be able to continue developing awareness of our brand names. We believe that continuing to build awareness of the Travelzoo and Fly.com brand names is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our business. Brand recognition is a key differentiating factor among providers of online advertising opportunities, and we believe it could become more important as competition in our industry increases. In order to maintain and build brand awareness, we must succeed in our marketing efforts. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, incur significant expenses in promoting our brand and fail to generate a corresponding increase in revenue as a result of our branding efforts, or encounter legal obstacles which prevent our continued use of our brand name, our business could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to retain our existing subscribers or acquire new subscribers, our revenue and business will be harmed. We spent $12.2 million, $10.7 million and $7.6 million on online marketing initiatives relating to subscriber acquisition for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 and expect to continue to spend significant amounts to acquire additional subscribers. We must continue to retain and acquire subscribers in order to maintain or increase revenue. We cannot assure you that the revenue from subscribers we acquire will ultimately exceed the cost of acquiring new subscribers. If subscribers do not perceive our offers to be of high value and quality or if we fail to introduce new and more relevant deals, we may not be able to acquire or retain subscribers. If we reduce our subscriber acquisition costs we cannot assure you that this will not adversely impact our ability to acquire new subscribers. If we are unable to acquire new subscribers who purchase our deals directly or indirectly in numbers sufficient to grow our business, or if subscribers cease to purchase our deals directly or indirectly through our advertisers, the revenue we generate may decrease and our operating results will be adversely affected. If the level of usage by our subscriber base declines or does not grow as expected, we may suffer a decline in subscriber growth or revenue. A significant decrease in the level of usage or subscriber growth would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our business may be sensitive to events affecting our advertisers in general. Events like disturbances in the Middle East are likely to have a negative impact on the travel industry. Events like the recent recession or further financial crisis are likely to have a negative impact on travel, entertainment and local companies. We are not in a position to evaluate the net effect of these circumstances on our business. In the longer term, our business might be negatively affected by financial pressures on travel, entertainment and local companies. However, our business may also benefit if travel, entertainment and local companies increase their efforts to promote special offers or other marketing programs. If such events result in a long-term negative impact on the travel, entertainment and local companies, such impact could have a material adverse effect on our business. We will not be able to attract advertisers or Internet users if we do not continually enhance and develop the content and features of our products and services. To remain competitive, we must continually improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our products and services. We may not succeed in developing features, functions, products or services that advertisers and Internet users find attractive. This could reduce the number of advertisers and Internet users using our products and materially adversely affect our business. We may lose business if we fail to keep pace with rapidly changing technologies and advertiser needs. Our success is dependent on our ability to develop new and enhanced software, services and related products to meet rapidly evolving technological requirements for online advertising. Our current technology may not meet the future technical requirements of our advertisers. Trends that could have a critical impact on our success include: • rapidly changing technology in online advertising; • evolving industry standards, including both formal and de facto standards relating to online advertising; • developments and changes relating to the Internet; • competing products and services that offer increased functionality; and • changes in advertiser and Internet user requirements. If we are unable to timely and successfully develop and introduce new products and enhancements to existing products in response to our industry’s changing technological requirements, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our business and growth will suffer if we are unable to hire and retain highly skilled personnel. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled employees. We may be unable to retain our skilled employees, or attract, assimilate and retain other highly skilled employees in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we are unable to hire and retain skilled personnel, our growth may be restricted, which could adversely affect our future success. We may not be able to effectively manage our expanding operations. Since the commencement of our operations, we have experienced a period of rapid growth. In order to execute our business plan, we must continue to grow significantly. As of December 31, 2011, we had 350 employees, up from 255 employees as of December 31, 2010. We expect that the number of our employees will continue to increase for the foreseeable future. This growth has placed, and our anticipated future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, systems and resources. We expect that we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures. We will also need to continue to expand and maintain close coordination among our sales, production, marketing, IT, human resource and finance departments. We may not succeed in these efforts. Our inability to expand our operations in an efficient manner could cause our expenses to grow disproportionately to revenues, our revenues to decline or grow more slowly than expected and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 Table of Contents Intense competition may adversely affect our ability to achieve or maintain market share and operate profitably. We compete for advertising dollars with large Internet portal sites, such as MSN and Yahoo! that offer listings or other advertising opportunities to travel, entertainment and local companies. These companies have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger advertiser bases. We compete with search engines like Google and Bing that offer pay-per-click listings. We compete with travel meta-search engines like Kayak and online travel and entertainment deal publishers. We compete with large online travel agencies like Expedia and Priceline that also offer advertising placements and capture consumer interest. We compete with companies like Groupon and LivingSocial that sell vouchers for deals from local businesses such as spas, hotels and restaurants. We expect to face increased competition from other internet and technology-based businesses such as Google and Microsoft, each of which has launched initiatives which are directly competitive to our Local Deals and Getaways products. We also have seen that some competitors will accept lower margins, or negative margins, to attract attention and acquire new subscribers. If competitors engage in group buying initiatives in which merchants receive a higher percentage of the face value than we currently offer, we may be forced to pay a higher percentage of the face value than we currently offer, which may reduce our revenue. In addition, we compete with newspapers, magazines and other traditional media companies that operate websites which provide online advertising opportunities. We expect to face additional competition as other established and emerging companies, including print media companies, enter the online advertising market. Competition could result in reduced margins on our services, loss of market share or less use of Travelzoo by advertisers and consumers. If we are not able to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a result of these and other factors, our business could be materially adversely affected. Loss of any of our key management personnel could negatively impact our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our management team, particularly Christopher Loughlin, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss or departure of any of our officers or key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business plan. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any member of our management team. In addition, we expect new members to join our management team in the future. These individuals will not previously have worked together and will be required to become integrated into our management team. If our key management personnel are not able to work together effectively or successfully, our business could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to access third party technology upon which we depend. We use technology and software products from third parties, including Microsoft and CyberSource. Technology from our current or other vendors may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our business will suffer if we are unable to access this technology, to gain access to additional products or to integrate new technology with our existing systems. This could cause delays in our development and introduction of new services and related products or enhancements of existing products until equivalent or replacement technology can be accessed, if available, or developed internally, if feasible. If we experience these delays, our business could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the Market for our Shares Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from $21.02 to $101. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results; announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. 17 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. We are controlled by a principal stockholder. Ralph Bartel, who founded Travelzoo and who is a Director of Travelzoo, is our largest stockholder, holding beneficially, as of February 15, 2012, approximately 53.3% of our outstanding shares. Through his share ownership, he is in a position to control Travelzoo and to elect our entire board of directors. Risks Related to Legal Uncertainty We may become subject to shareholder lawsuits over securities violations due to volatile stock price and this can be burdensome to management and costly to defend. Shareholder lawsuits for securities violations are often launched against companies whose stock price is volatile. Such lawsuits involving the Company would require management’s attention to defend, which may distract attention from operating the Company. In addition, the Company may incur substantial costs to defend itself and/or settle such claims, which may be considered advisable to minimize the distraction and costs of defense. Such lawsuits could result in judgments against the Company requiring substantial payments to claimants. Such costs may materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. During the third quarter ended September 30, 2011, numerous class action and derivative lawsuits were filed against the Company. See further disclosure in Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We may become subject to burdensome government regulations and legal uncertainties affecting the Internet which could adversely affect our business. To date, governmental regulations have not materially restricted use of the Internet in our markets. However, the legal and regulatory environment that pertains to the Internet is uncertain and may change. Uncertainty and new regulations could increase our costs of doing business, prevent us from delivering our products and services over the Internet or slow the growth of the Internet. In addition to new laws and regulations being adopted, existing laws may be applied to the Internet. New and existing laws may cover issues which include: • user privacy; • anti-spam legislation; • consumer protection; • copyright, trademark and patent infringement; • pricing controls; • characteristics and quality of products and services; • sales and other taxes; and • other claims based on the nature and content of Internet materials. We may be liable as a result of information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet. We may be sued for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other legal claims relating to information that is published or made available in our products. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services in the past. The fact that we distribute information via e-mail may subject us to potential risks, such as liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited e-mail or spamming, lost or misdirected messages, security breaches, illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail or interruptions or delays in e-mail service. In addition, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending such claims, even if we ultimately are not liable. If any of these events occur, our business could be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents The implementation of the CARD Act and similar state and foreign laws may harm our Local Deals and Getaways business. Vouchers which are issued under our Local Deals and Getaways may be considered gift cards, gift certificates, stored value cards or prepaid cards and therefore governed by, among other laws, the CARD Act, and state laws governing gift cards, stored value cards and coupons. Other foreign jurisdictions have similar laws in place, in particular European jurisdictions where the European E-Money Directive regulates the business of electronic money institutions. Many of these laws contain provisions governing the use of gift cards, gift certificates, stored value cards or prepaid cards, including specific disclosure requirements and prohibitions or limitations on the use of expiration dates and the imposition of certain fees. For example, if the vouchers are subject to the CARD Act and are not included in the exemption for promotional programs, it is possible that the purchase value, which is the amount equal to the price paid for the voucher, or the promotional value, which is the add-on value of the voucher in excess of the price paid, or both, may not expire before the later of (i) five years after the date on which the voucher was issued; (ii) the voucher’s stated expiration date (if any); or (iii) a later date provided by applicable state law. Purported class actions against other companies have been filed in federal and state court claiming that coupons similar to the vouchers are subject to the CARD Act and various state laws governing gift cards and that the defendants have violated these laws by issuing the coupons with expiration dates and other restrictions. In addition, investigations by certain state attorney general offices have been launched against other companies with regards to similar issues. If similar claims are asserted against the Company in respect of the Local Deals and Getaways vouchers and are successful, we may become subject to fines and penalties and incur additional costs. In addition, if federal or state laws require that the face value of our vouchers have a minimum expiration period beyond the period desired by a merchant for its promotional program, or no expiration period, this may affect the willingness of merchants to issue vouchers in jurisdictions where these laws apply. Such developments may materially and adversely affect the profitability or viability of our Local Deals and Getaways. If we are required to materially increase the estimated liability recorded in our financial statements with respect to unredeemed Local Deals and Getaways vouchers due to application of certain gift card laws, our net income could be materially and adversely affected. In certain states and foreign jurisdictions, our Local Deals and Getaways vouchers may be considered a gift card. Some of these states and foreign jurisdictions include gift cards under their unclaimed and abandoned property laws which require companies to remit to the government the value of the unredeemed balance on the gift cards after a specified period of time (generally between one and five years) and impose certain reporting and recordkeeping obligations. We do not remit any amounts relating to unredeemed vouchers we sell based on our assessment of applicable laws. The analysis of the potential application of the unclaimed and abandoned property laws to our vouchers is complex, involving an analysis of constitutional and statutory provisions and factual issues, including our relationship with subscribers and merchants and our role as it relates to the issuance and delivery of a voucher. In the event that one or more states or foreign jurisdictions successfully challenges our position on the application of its unclaimed and abandoned property laws to vouchers, or if the estimates that we use in projecting the likelihood of vouchers being redeemed prove to be inaccurate, our liabilities with respect to unredeemed vouchers may be materially higher than the amounts shown in our financial statements. If we are required to materially increase the estimated liability recorded in our financial statements with respect to unredeemed gift cards, our net income could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, a successful challenge to our position could subject us to penalties or interest on unreported and unremitted sums, and any such penalties or interest would have a further material adverse impact on our net income. New tax treatment of companies engaged in internet commerce may adversely affect the commercial use of our services and our financial results. Due to the global nature of the internet, it is possible that various states or foreign countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy sales, income or other taxes relating to our activities. Tax authorities at the international, federal, state and local levels are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of companies engaged in internet commerce. New or revised international, federal, state or local tax regulations may subject us 19 Table of Contents or our subscribers to additional sales, income and other taxes. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over the internet. New or revised taxes and, in particular, sales taxes, VAT and similar taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of advertising and selling goods and services over the internet. New taxes could also create significant increases in internal costs necessary to capture data, and collect and remit taxes. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may suffer liability as a result of information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet and claims related to our service offerings. We may be sued for defamation, civil rights infringement, negligence, patent, copyright or trademark infringement, invasion of privacy, personal injury, product liability, breach of contract, unfair competition, discrimination, antitrust or other legal claims relating to information that is published or made available on our websites or service offerings we make available (including provision of an application programming interface platform for third parties to access our website, mobile device services and geolocation applications). This risk is enhanced in certain jurisdictions outside the United States, where our liability for such third-party actions may be less clear and we may be less protected. In addition, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending such claims, even if we ultimately are not found liable. If any of these events occurs, our net income could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our websites and applications, including consumer data, content that is produced by our editorial staff and errors or omissions related to our product offerings. Such information, whether accurate or inaccurate, may result in our being sued by our advertisers, merchants, subscribers or third parties and as a result our revenue and goodwill could be materially and adversely affected. Claims may be asserted against us relating to shares not issued in our 2002 merger. The merger of Travelzoo.com Corporation into the Company became effective on April 25, 2002. Stockholders of Travelzoo.com Corporation were allowed a period of two years following the effective date to receive shares in the Company. After April 25, 2004, two years following the effective date, we ceased issuing shares to the former stockholders of Travelzoo.com Corporation. Many of the “Netsurfer stockholders,” who had applied to receive shares of Travelzoo.com Corporation in 1998 for no cash consideration, did not elect to receive their shares which were issuable in the merger prior to the end of the two-year period. A total of 4,115,532 of our shares which had been reserved for issuance in the merger were not claimed. It is possible that claims may be asserted against us in the future by former stockholders of Travelzoo.com Corporation seeking to receive our shares, whether based on a claim that the two-year deadline for exchanging their shares was unenforceable or otherwise. In addition, one or more jurisdictions, including the Bahamas or the State of Delaware, may assert rights to unclaimed shares under escheat statutes. As discussed above under Item 1. “Business — Overview,” on April 21, 2011, we settled all claims by the State of Delaware relating to a previously-announced unclaimed property review relating to shares of Travelzoo which have not been claimed by former shareholders of Travelzoo.com Corporation. Unclaimed shares which were properly issuable would have been subject to escheat to the State of Delaware because the Company is organized under Delaware law. Under applicable law, unclaimed property held by a corporation is subject to escheat to the jurisdiction of incorporation if the address of the owner is unknown. In the case of those shown as former shareholders of Travelzoo.com Corporation, the addresses were generally unknown. Other jurisdictions may assert escheat claims in respect of unclaimed shares if they are able to identify persons shown as former shareholders of Travelzoo.com Corporation with addresses in those jurisdictions. The Company is subject to unclaimed property audits by most States in the U.S.; several States have notified the Company of their intention to perform an audit of unclaimed property. As of December 31, 2011, there is no significant asserted claim by any State in regards to unclaimed property liability for the Company. If such escheat claims are asserted, whether as result of such unclaimed property review or otherwise, we intend to challenge the applicability of escheat rights in that, among 20 Table of Contents other reasons, the identity, residency and eligibility of the holders in question cannot be determined. There were certain conditions applicable to the issuance of shares to the Netsurfer stockholders, including requirements that (i) they be at least 18 years of age, (ii) they be residents of the U.S. or Canada and (iii) they not apply for shares more than once. The Netsurfer stockholders were required to confirm their compliance with these conditions, and were advised that failure to comply could result in cancellation of their shares in Travelzoo.com Corporation. Travelzoo.com Corporation was not able to verify that the applicants met the requirements referred to above at the time of their applications for issuance of shares. If claims are asserted by persons claiming to be former stockholders of Travelzoo.com Corporation, we intend to assert that their rights to receive their shares expired two years following the effective date of the merger, as provided in the merger agreement. We also expect to take the position, if escheat or similar claims are asserted in respect of the unissued shares in the future, that we are not required to issue such shares. Further, even if it were established that unissued shares were subject to escheat claims, we would assert that the claimant must establish that the original Netsurfer stockholders complied with the conditions to issuance of their shares. We are not able to predict the outcome of any future claims which might be asserted relating to the unissued shares. Since the total cost of the program is not reliably estimable, the amount of expense recorded in a period is equal to the actual number of valid claims received during the period multiplied by (i) the number of shares held by each individual former stockholder and (ii) the applicable settlement price based on the recent price of our common stock at the date the claim is received as stipulated by the program. Assuming 100% of the requests from 1998 were valid, and after taking into account the settlement with the State of Delaware referred to above, former stockholders of Travelzoo.com Corporation holding approximately 1.0 million had not submitted claims under the program as of December 31, 2011. If the Company were required to issue such shares for no additional payment, that would result in substantial dilution of the ownership interests of the other stockholders, and in our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of the common stock. On October 15, 2004, we announced a program under which we would make cash payments to people who establish that they were former stockholders of Travelzoo.com Corporation, and who failed to submit requests to convert shares into Travelzoo Inc. within the required time period. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include a charge in general and administrative expenses of $153,000 for these cash payments for the year ended December 31, 2011. The total cost of this program is not reliably estimable because it is based on the ultimate number of valid requests received and future levels of our common stock price. Our common stock price affects the liability because the amount of cash payments under the program is based in part on the recent level of the stock price at the date valid requests are received. We do not know how many of the requests for shares originally received by Travelzoo.com Corporation in 1998 were valid, but we believe that only a portion of such requests were valid. As noted above, in order to receive payment under the program, a person is required to establish that such person validly held shares in Travelzoo.com Corporation. Assuming 100% of the requests from 1998 were valid, former stockholders of Travelzoo.com Corporation holding approximately 1.0 million shares (representing approximately $24.6 million based upon the Company’s stock price at the end of 2011) had not submitted claims under the program as of December 31, 2011. Federal laws and regulations, such as the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act and similar foreign laws, could be expanded to include Local Deals and Getaway vouchers. Various federal laws, such as the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act and foreign laws and regulations, such as the European Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, impose certain anti-money laundering requirements on companies that are financial institutions or that provide financial products and services. For these purposes, financial institutions are broadly defined to include money services businesses such as money transmitters, check cashers and sellers or issuers of stored value cards. Examples of anti-money laundering requirements imposed on financial institutions include subscriber identification and verification programs, record retention policies and procedures and transaction reporting. We do not believe that we are a financial institution subject to these laws and regulations based, in part, upon the characteristics of vouchers and our role with respect to the distribution of vouchers to subscribers. However, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, a division of the U.S. Department of the Treasury tasked with implementing the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act, recently issued final rules 21 Table of Contents regarding the scope and requirements for non-bank parties involved in stored value or prepaid access cards, including obligations on sellers or providers of “prepaid access”. Under the final rule, closed loop vouchers, such as those offered through the Local Deals program, would only be subject to registration if they exceed $2000 in total value in any one day or if they are sold in aggregate amounts exceeding $10,000 to any single person in one day. Should the $2,000 limit be exceeded or should more than $10,000 in aggregate vouchers be sold to any individual person (sales to businesses for resale or distribution are excluded) then we may be deemed either a seller or provider of prepaid access subject to regulation. In the event that we become subject to the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act or any other anti-money laundering law or regulation imposing obligations on us as a money services business, our regulatory compliance costs to meet these obligations would likely increase which could reduce our net income. In addition, the costs for third parties to sell vouchers would increase, which may restrict our ability to enlist third parties to issue vouchers Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective, and our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of such internal controls, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business. We are obligated to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to opine on, our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the SEC, which we collectively refer to as Section 404. In our Section 404 evaluation, we have identified areas of internal controls that may need improvement and have instituted remediation efforts where necessary. Currently, none of our identified areas that need improvement has been categorized as material weaknesses. We may identify conditions that may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future. We may be unable to protect our registered trademark or other proprietary intellectual property rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of the Travelzoo brand name. We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights, however, may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information. We have registered the Travelzoo trademark in the U.S., Australia, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and the U.K. If we are unable to protect our rights in the mark in North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific, where we have licensed the trademark as described above under “Overview”, a key element of our strategy of promoting Travelzoo as a brand could be disrupted and our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our proprietary information or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. In addition, the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. The laws of countries in which we may market our services in the future are uncertain and may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology and brand name without paying us for them. If this were to occur, our business could be materially adversely affected. We may face liability from intellectual property litigation that could be costly to prosecute or defend and distract management’s attention with no assurance of success. We cannot be certain that our products, content and brand names do not or will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. While we have a trademark for “Travelzoo,” many companies in the industry have similar names including the word “travel”. We expect that infringement claims in our markets will increase in number as more participants enter the markets. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit, and such claims could result in a significant diversion of the efforts of our management personnel. Successful infringement claims against us may result in monetary liability or a material disruption in the conduct of our business. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 