Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to increasing competition that may adversely affect our operating results. The market for avocados and processed avocado products is highly competitive and affects each of our businesses. Each of our businesses are subject to competitive pressures, including the following: • California avocados are impacted by an increasing volume of foreign grown avocados being imported into the United States. Recently, there have been significant plantings of avocados in Mexico, Chile, New Zealand, the Dominican Republic, and other parts of the world, which have had, and will continue to have, the effect of increasing the volume of foreign grown avocados entering the United States market. Generally, an increase in foreign grown avocados in the markets we distribute in has the effect of lowering prices for California grown avocados and adversely impacting our results from operations. 8 Table of Contents • California avocado are subject to competition from other California avocado handlers. If we are unable to consistently pay California growers a competitive price for their avocados, these growers may choose to have their avocados marketed by alternate handlers. • Non-California sourced avocados and perishable food products are impacted by competitors operating in Mexico. Generally, handlers of Mexican grown avocados operate facilities that are substantially smaller than our facility in Uruapan, Mexico. If we are unable to pack and market a sufficient volume of Mexican grown avocados, smaller handlers will have a lower per unit cost and be able to offer Mexican avocados at a more competitive price to our customers. • Non-California sourced avocados and perishable food products are also subject to competition from other California avocado handlers that market Chilean grown avocados. If we are unable to consistently pay Chilean packers a competitive price for their avocados, these packers may choose to have their avocados marketed by alternate handlers. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. We conduct a substantial amount of business with growers and customers who are located outside the United States. We purchase avocados from foreign growers and packers, sell fresh avocados and processed avocado products to foreign customers, and operate a packinghouse and a processing plant in Mexico. For additional information about our non-California sourced fruit, see the “Business” section included in this Annual Report. Our current international operations are subject to a number of inherent risks, including: • Local economic and political conditions, including disruptions in trading and capital markets; • Restrictive foreign governmental actions, such as restrictions on transfers of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs; • Changes in legal or regulatory requirements affecting foreign investment, loans, taxes, imports, and exports; and • Currency exchange rate fluctuations which, depending upon the nature of the changes, may make our domestic-sourced products more expensive compared to foreign grown products or may increase our cost of obtaining foreign-sourced products. We and our growers are subject to the risks that are inherent in farming. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by numerous factors over which we have little or no control and that are inherent in farming, including reductions in the market prices for our products, adverse weather and growing conditions, pest and disease problems, and new government regulations regarding farming and the marketing of agricultural products. We are subject to rapidly changing USDA and FDA regulations which govern the importation of foreign avocados into the United States and the processing of processed avocado products. The USDA has established, and continues to modify, regulations governing the importation of avocados into the United States. Our permits that allow us to import foreign-sourced avocados into the United States generally are contingent on our compliance with these regulations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with existing and modified regulations and are unable to secure avocado import permits in the future. The FDA establishes, and continues to modify, regulations governing the production of processed avocado products. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with existing and modified regulations. Our business could be adversely affected if we lost key members of our management. We are dependent on the efforts and performance of our current directors and officers. If we were to lose any key members of management, our business could be adversely affected. You should read the information under “Executive Officers” in this Annual Report for additional information about our management. The acquisition of other businesses could pose risks to our operating income. We intend to review acquisition prospects that would complement our business. While we are not currently a party to any agreement with respect to any acquisitions, we may acquire other businesses in the future. Future acquisitions by us could result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, and increased debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the assimilation of the acquired operations, diversion of management’s attention to other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. We may be 9 Table of Contents unable to successfully integrate businesses or the personnel of any business that might be acquired in the future, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. Our ability to competitively serve our customers is a function of reliable and low cost transportation. Disruption of the supply of these services and/or significant increases in the cost of these services could impact our operating income. We use multiple forms of transportation to bring our products to market. They include ocean, truck, and air-cargo. Disruption to the timely supply of these services or dramatic increases in the cost of these services for any reason including availability of fuel for such services, labor disputes, or governmental restrictions limiting specific forms of transportation could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers and consumers and could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 