D. Risk Factors The Corporation’s business entails significant risks. In addition to the usual risks associated with a business, the following is a general description of certain significant risk factors which are applicable to the Corporation. Going concern risk The Company recorded a loss of $57,403,000 and negative cash flows from operations of $41,865,000 in the year ended May 31, 2008 and the Company reported an accumulated deficit of $135,233,000 as at May 31, 2008. In March 2008, the Company announced a significant corporate restructuring stemming from the unfavourable results of the Phase 3 MEND-CABG II trial. This restructuring included a significant reduction in numbers of staff and in resources allocated to certain programs. Based on the Company’s operating plan, its existing working capital is not sufficient to meet the cash requirements to fund the Company’s currently planned operating expenses, capital requirements, working capital requirements, long-term debt obligations and commitments beyond the end of the 2009 fiscal year without additional sources of cash and/or deferral, reduction or elimination of significant planned expenditures. The Company’s plan to address the expected shortfall of working capital is to secure additional funding within the next six months and to increase operating revenue and reduce operating expenses. There is no certainty that the Company will be able to obtain any sources of financing on acceptable terms, or at all, or that it will increase product revenue or reduce operating expenses to the extent necessary. 12 The ability of the Company to continue as a going concern and to realize the carrying value of its assets and discharge its liabilities when due is dependent on many factors, including, but not limited to the actions taken or planned, some of which are described above, which management believes will mitigate the adverse conditions and events which raise doubt about the validity of the “going concern” assumption used in preparing these financial statements. There is no certainty that these and other strategies will be sufficient to permit the Company to continue as a going concern. The Corporation has engaged in a restructuring program designed to reduce costs and conserve capital which may not be successful. Following MC-1’s failure to achieve its endpoint as announced in February 2008, the Corporation engaged in a restructuring effort which led to the downsizing of 50 staff and consultants in order to reduce expenses and conserve capital. The restructuring may negatively impact the ability of the Corporation to retain qualified management, staff and consultants which may further limit the Corporation’s ability to continue its commercial operations as well as its ongoing research and development activities. Prior to the acquisition of AGGRASTAT®, the Corporation had no products in commercial production or use. As such, the Corporation was considered to be a development-stage enterprise for accounting purposes prior to the acquisition. The Corporation expects to continue to incur substantial losses and may never achieve profitability, which in turn may harm its future operating performance and may cause the market price of its stock to decline. With the exception of AGGRASTAT®, the Corporation’s products are in the development stage and accordingly, its business operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment and maintenance of a developing business enterprise, such as those related to competition and viable operations management. The Corporation has incurred net losses every year since inception in 1997. The Corporation incurred net losses of $57,402,521 for the year ended May 31, 2008, $31,703,386 for the year ended May 31, 2007, $12,607,074 for the year ended May 31, 2006, $14,865,910 for the year ended May 31, 2005, and $5,989,086 for the year ended May 31, 2004. The Corporation anticipates that its losses will continue for the foreseeable future. The long-term profitability of the Corporation’s operations is uncertain, and may never occur. The Corporation’s long-term profitability will be directly related to its ability to develop a commercially viable drug product or products. This in turn depends on numerous factors, including the following: a) the success of the Corporation’s research and development activities, including its drug discovery, preclinical and clinical development programs; b) obtaining Canadian and United States regulatory approvals to market MC-1 and MC-4232, its lead products; c) the ability to contract for the manufacture of the Corporation’s products according to schedule and within budget, given that it has no experience in large scale manufacturing; d) the ability to successfully prosecute and defend its patents and other intellectual property; and e) the ability to successfully market the Corporation’s products including AGGRASTAT® (tirofiban hydrochloride), given that it has limited experience in marketing. If the Corporation does achieve profitability, it may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. Substantial cash payments may be required under the terms of the Corporation’s borrowings upon an event of default or change of control. Such cash payments may leave the Corporation with little or no working capital in the business or make the Corporation insolvent. In September 2007, the Company entered into a debt financing agreement with Birmingham Associates Ltd. (Birmingham), an affiliate of Elliott Associates, L.P. (Elliott) for a US$25 million up-front cash 13 payment. Under the terms of the agreement, Birmingham will receive a payment based on a percentage of AGGRASTAT® net sales. Birmingham is entitled to a return of 20 percent on the first US$15 million in AGGRASTAT® revenues, 17.5 percent on the next US$10 million, 15 percent on the next $5 million and 5 percent thereafter, subject to an escalating minimum annual return, until May 31, 2020. The minimum annual returns start at US$2.5 million in 2008 and escalate to US$6.9 million in 2017, with minimum payments over the life of the agreement aggregating US$49.7 million. In August 2006, the Corporation entered into a term loan financing facility with a syndicate of lenders, led by Merrill Lynch Business Financial Services Inc. (Merrill) (formerly Merrill Lynch Capital Canada Inc.), Silicon Valley Bank and Oxford Finance Corporation (the “Credit Facility”). As at May 31, 2008, the balance outstanding on the Credit Facility is US$12 million. Under the Credit Facility, the Corporation’s lenders may require that all or a portion of the principal amount of the Credit Facility be repaid in cash upon the occurrence of various customary events of default (subject to certain cure periods), including but not limited to: the failure to pay principal, fees and/or interest due under the Credit Facility; the suspension of the Corporation’s common shares from trading on both the TSX and AMEX; the issuance of any judgments or orders against the Corporation for the payment of money (not paid or fully covered by insurance) in an aggregate amount in excess of US$375,000; any material default under any indebtedness of the Corporation in an aggregate principal amount exceeding US$375,000; any breach of any term of the credit and security agreement under which the Credit Facility was extended or in any other document delivered pursuant thereto; a default under any guarantee of the Credit Facility; an unpermitted payment by any obligor under the Credit Facility on account of any debt that has been subordinated to the Credit Facility and the occurrence of any fact, event or circumstance that could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, the interest rate on the Credit Facility will be increased by 1.5% . The lenders under the Credit Facility may also require all or a portion of the Credit Facility be redeemed in cash upon a change of control. Pursuant to an amendment to the Credit Facility agreement made as of September 17, 2007, the cash amount of US$12 million was deposited in a cash collateral reserve held by Merrill and to be applied against the Corporation’s obligations under the Credit Facility. The Corporation’s substantial debt could impair its financial condition. The Corporation is highly leveraged and has substantial debt service obligations which it may not be able to meet in the ordinary course of business. As of May 31, 2008, the Corporation had approximately US$36.2 million of future principal repayments on its long-term debt. This substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for the Corporation. For example, it could: increase the Corporation’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases to interest rates; 14 impair the Corporation’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes; require the Corporation to dedicate a significant portion of its existing cash and proceeds from any future financing transactions to the payment of principal and interest on its debt, which would reduce the funds available for its operations; limit the Corporation’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industry in which it operates; and place the Corporation at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt. There is no guarantee that the Corporation will be able to meet its obligations under these facilities. The Corporation may be exposed to short-term liquidity risk. The Corporation currently relies on trade credit as well as cash from term debt and equity issues to provide the necessary short-term financing to conduct the Corporation’s research and development activities as well as its commercial operations. Should suppliers and other creditors decline to extend short-term credit to the Corporation in the future, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business prospects, financial results and financial condition. Despite current indebtedness levels and the terms of the Credit Facility, the Corporation may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with the Corporation’s substantial leverage. Despite current indebtedness levels and the terms of the Credit Facility, the Corporation may still be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Under the Credit Facility, the Corporation is permitted to incur, among other types of indebtedness, indebtedness that is subordinate to the Credit Facility. If new debt is added to the Corporation’s current debt levels, the related risks that it now faces could increase. The Corporation may never receive regulatory approval in Canada, the United States or abroad for any of its products developed. Therefore, the Corporation may not be able to sell any therapeutic products developed. The Corporation’s failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals to fully market its current and future therapeutic products in one or more significant markets may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The procedure involved in obtaining regulatory approval from the competent authorities to market therapeutic products is long and costly and may delay product development. The approval to market a product may be applicable to a limited extent only or it may be refused entirely. With the exception of AGGRASTAT®, all of the Corporation’s products are currently in the research and development stages. The Corporation may never have another commercially viable drug product approved for marketing. To obtain regulatory approvals for its products and to achieve commercial success, human clinical trials must demonstrate that the products are safe for human use and that they show efficacy. Unsatisfactory results obtained from a particular study or clinical trial relating to one or more of the Corporation’s products may cause the Corporation to reduce or abandon its commitment to that program. If the Corporation fails to successfully complete its clinical trials, it will not obtain approval from the Canadian Therapeutic Products Directorate, formerly the Canadian Health Protection Branch (“TPD”), or from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), to market its leading product, MC-1 or its second clinical candidate, MC-4232. Regulatory approvals also may be subject to conditions that could limit the 15 market for MC-1 or MC-4232 or make either product or both products more difficult or expensive to sell than anticipated. Also, regulatory approvals may be revoked at any time, including for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or poor performance of MC-1 or MC-4232 in terms of safety and effectiveness. The Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if it fails to obtain regulatory approvals in Canada, the United States and abroad to market and sell MC-1 or MC-4232 or any current or future drug products, including any limitations imposed on the marketing of such products. The Corporation may not be able to hire or retain the qualified scientific, technical and management personnel it requires. The Company’s business prospects and operations depend on the continued contributions of certain of the Company’s executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, certain of whom would be difficult to replace. The Corporation has a contract with CanAm Bioresearch Inc. (“CanAm”) to perform for it a significant amount of its research and development activities. Because of the specialized scientific nature of the Corporation’s business, the loss of services of CanAm may require the Corporation to attract and retain replacement qualified scientific, technical and management personnel. Competition in the biotechnology industry for such personnel is intense and the Corporation may not be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel, which may compromise the pace and success of its research and development activities. Also, certain of the Corporation’s management personnel are officers and/or directors of other companies, some publicly-traded, and will only devote part of their time to the Corporation. The Corporation does not have key person insurance in effect in the event of a loss of any management, scientific or other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of the Company’s current executive officers or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business prospects, financial results and financial condition. The Corporation faces substantial technological competition from many biotechnology companies with much greater resources, and it may not be able to effectively compete. Technological and scientific competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is intense. The Corporation competes with other companies in Canada, the United States and abroad to develop products designed to treat similar conditions. Many of these other companies have substantially greater financial, technical and scientific research and development resources, manufacturing and production and sales and marketing capabilities than the Corporation. Small companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Developments by other companies may adversely affect the competitiveness of the Corporation’s products or technologies or the commitment of its research and marketing collaborators to its programs or even render its products obsolete. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is characterized by extensive drug discovery and drug research efforts and rapid technological and scientific change. Competition can be expected to increase as technological advances are made and commercial applications for biopharmaceutical products increase. The Corporation’s competitors may use different technologies or approaches to develop products similar to the products which it is developing, or may develop new or enhanced products or processes that may be more effective, less expensive, safer or more readily available before or after the Corporation obtains approval of its products. The Corporation may not be able to successfully compete with its competitors or their products and, if it is unable to do so, the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 16 The Corporation may be unable to establish collaborative and commercial relationships with third parties. The Corporation’s success will depend partly on its ability to enter into and to maintain various arrangements with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others for the research, development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing, sales and commercialization of its products. These relationships will be crucial to the Corporation’s intention to license to or contract with larger, international pharmaceutical companies the manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution of any products it may commercialize for production. There can be no assurance that any licensing or other agreements will be established on favourable terms, if at all. The failure to establish successful collaborative arrangements may negatively impact the Corporation’s ability to develop and commercialize its products, and may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s financing agreement with Birmingham Associates includes certain restrictive covenants on the corporations commercial and developmental products including intellectual property. The ability for the company to execute on portions of its business plan may be contingent on having collaborative relationships with Birmingham. The failure to establish or maintain this successful collaborative arrangement may negatively impact the Corporation. The Corporation has licensed certain technologies relating to products under development and may enter into future licensing agreements. The Corporation’s current licensing agreements contain provisions allowing the licensors to terminate such agreements if it becomes insolvent or breach the terms and conditions of the licensing agreements without rectifying such event of default in accordance with the agreement terms. The Corporation is currently dependent on a single manufacturer of its sole commercial product, AGGRASTAT and on a single supplier of raw material used in the manufacture of AGGRASTAT. The Corporation is reliant on a single supplier of the raw material for AGGRASTAT and a single third party manufacturer of the final product AGGRASTAT. If the supply of raw material or the manufacturing agreement for AGGRASTAT is terminated or interrupted and the Corporation was unable to obtain a replacement supplier or manufacturer, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business prospects, financial results and financial condition. The Corporation may fail to obtain acceptable prices or appropriate reimbursement for its products and its ability to successfully commercialize its products may be impaired as a result. Government and insurance reimbursements for healthcare expenditures play an important role for all healthcare providers, including physicians, medical device companies, drug companies, medical supply companies, and companies, such as the Corporation, that plan to offer various products in the United States and other countries in the future. The Corporation’s ability to earn sufficient returns on its products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products, related therapies and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations, and other organizations. In the United States, the Corporation’s ability to have its products and related treatments and therapies eligible for Medicare or private insurance reimbursement will be an important factor in determining the ultimate success of its products. If, for any reason, Medicare or the insurance companies decline to provide reimbursement for the Corporation’s products and related treatments, the Corporation’s ability to commercialize its products would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that the Corporation’s products and related treatments will be eligible for reimbursement. There has been a trend toward declining government and private insurance expenditures for many healthcare items. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. If purchasers or users of the Corporation’s products and related treatments are not able to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of using such products and related treatments, they may forgo or 17 reduce such use. Even if the Corporation’s products and related treatments are approved for reimbursement by Medicare and private insurers, of which there can be no assurance, the amount of reimbursement may be reduced at times, or even eliminated. This would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage will be available. The Corporation does not have manufacturing or experience and has limited marketing experience and may never be able to successfully manufacture or market certain of its products. The Corporation has no experience in large-scale manufacturing and has no experience in marketing or selling its products except for limited experience marketing AGGRASTAT®. The Corporation may never be able to successfully manufacture and market certain of its products. If the TPD or FDA approves MC-1, MC-4232 or any other of its products, the Corporation intends to contract with and rely on third parties to manufacture, and possible to market and sell its products. Accordingly, the quality, timing and ultimately the commercial success of such products may be outside of the Corporation’s control. Failure of or delay by a third party manufacturer of the Corporation’s products to comply with good manufacturing practices or similar quality control regulations or satisfy regulatory inspections may have a material adverse effect on its future prospects. Failure of or delay by a third party in the marketing or selling of the Corporation’s products or failure of the Corporation to successfully market and sell such products likewise may have a material adverse effect on its future prospects. The Corporation has limited product liability insurance and may not be able to obtain adequate product liability insurance in the future. The sale and use of products under development by the Corporation, and the conduct of clinical studies involving human subjects, may entail product and professional liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of new drugs to humans. While the Corporation has taken, and will continue to take, what it believes are appropriate precautions, there can be no assurance that it will avoid significant liability exposure. Although the Corporation currently carries product liability insurance for clinical trials, there can be no assurance that it has sufficient coverage, or can in the future obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost. An inability to obtain insurance on economically feasible terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit or prevent the commercialization of products developed by the Corporation. The obligation to pay any product liability claim or recall a product may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and future prospects. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful, adverse publicity and the time and expense of defending such a claim may significantly interfere with the Corporation’s business. If the Corporation is unable to successfully protect its proprietary rights, its competitive position will be adversely affected. The Corporation’s success will depend partly on its ability to obtain and protect its patents and protect its proprietary rights in unpatented trade secrets. The Corporation owns or jointly owns 39 United States patents. The Corporation has additional pending United States patent applications. The Corporation’s pending and any future patent applications may not be accepted by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or any other jurisdiction in which applications may be filed. Also, processes or products that may be developed by the Corporation in the future may not be patentable. The patent protection afforded to biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies is uncertain and involves many complex legal, scientific and factual questions. There is no clear law or policy involving the degree of protection afforded under patents. As a result, the scope of patents issued to the Corporation may not successfully prevent third parties from developing similar or competitive products. Competitors may develop similar or competitive products that do not conflict with the Corporation’s patents. Litigation may be commenced by the Corporation to prevent infringement of its patents. Litigation may also 18 commence against the Corporation to challenge its patents that, if successful, may result in the narrowing or invalidating of such patents. It is not possible to predict how any patent litigation will affect the Corporation’s efforts to develop, manufacture or market its products. However, the cost of litigation to prevent infringement or uphold the validity of any patents issued to the Corporation may be significant, in which case its business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Patents provide protection for only a limited period of time, and much of such time can occur well before commercialization commences. Disclosure and use of the Corporation’s proprietary rights in unpatented trade secrets not otherwise protected by patents are generally controlled by written agreements. However, such agreements will not provide the Corporation with adequate protection if they are not honoured, others independently develop an equivalent technology, disputes arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property, or its trade secrets are disclosed improperly. To the extent that consultants or other research collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work with the Corporation, disputes may also arise as to the rights to related or resulting know-how or inventions. Others could claim that the Corporation infringes on their proprietary rights, which may result in costly, complex and time consuming litigation. The Corporation’s success will depend partly on its ability to operate without infringing upon the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. The Corporation is not currently aware that any of its products or processes infringes the proprietary rights of third parties. However, despite its best efforts, the Corporation may be sued for infringing on the patent or other proprietary rights of third parties at any time in the future. Such litigation, with or without merit, is time-consuming and costly and may significantly impact the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations, even if it prevails. If the Corporation does not prevail, it may be required to stop the infringing activity or enter into a royalty or licensing agreement, in addition to any damages it may have to pay. The Corporation may not be able to obtain such a license or the terms of the royalty or license may be burdensome for it, which may significantly impair the Corporation’s ability to market its products and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation is subject to stringent governmental regulation, in the future may become subject to additional regulations and if it is unable to comply, its business may be materially harmed. Biotechnology, medical device, and pharmaceutical companies operate in a high-risk regulatory environment. The TPD, FDA, and other health agencies can be very slow to approve a product and can also withhold product approvals. In addition, these health agencies also oversee many other medical product operations, such as research and development, manufacturing, and testing and safety regulation of medical products. As a result, regulatory risk is normally higher than in other industry sectors. The Corporation is or may become subject to various federal, provincial, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations. The Corporation is subject to various laws and regulations in Canada, relating to product emissions, use and disposal of hazardous or toxic chemicals or potentially hazardous substances, infectious disease agents and other materials, and laboratory and manufacturing practices used in connection with its research and development activities. If the Corporation fails to comply with these regulations, it may be fined or suffer other consequences that could materially affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. The Corporation is unable to predict the extent of future government regulations or industry standards. However, it should be assumed that government regulations or standards will increase in the future. New regulations or standards may result in increased costs, including costs for obtaining permits, delays or fines resulting from loss of permits or failure to comply with regulations. The Corporation’s products may not gain market acceptance, and as a result it may be unable to generate significant revenues. 19 Except with respect to AGGRASTAT®, the Corporation does not currently have the required clinical data and results to successfully market its product candidates in any jurisdiction; future clinical or preclinical results may be negative or insufficient to allow it to successfully market any of its product candidates; and obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned, and may not be obtained at all. Even if the Corporation’s products are approved for sale, they may not be successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of any of the Corporation’s products will depend on a number of factors, including demonstration of clinical effectiveness and safety; the potential advantages of its products over alternative treatments; the availability of acceptable pricing and adequate third-party reimbursement; and the effectiveness of marketing and distribution methods for the products. Providers, payors or patients may not accept the Corporation’s products, even if they prove to be safe and effective and are approved for marketing by the TPD, the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The Corporation estimates that it may take up to two years or longer before its initial products may be sold commercially. If the Corporation’s products do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, and others in the medical community, its ability to generate significant revenues from its products would be limited. The Corporation may not achieve its projected development goals in the time frames it announces and expects. The Corporation sets goals for and makes public statements regarding timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to its success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory approval dates, and time of product launch. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in the Corporation’s clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, and delays in achieving product development, manufacturing or marketing milestones necessary to commercialize its products. There can be no assurance that the Corporation’s clinical trials will be completed, that it will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned, or that it will be able to adhere to its current schedule for the scale-up of manufacturing and launch of any of its products. If the Corporation fails to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, that could materially affect its business, financial condition or results of operations and the price of its common shares could decline. The Corporation’s business involves the use of hazardous material, which requires it to comply with environmental regulations. The Corporation manufacturers Aggrastat in commercial quantities. In addition the Corporation’s research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials and hazardous biological materials. The Corporation is subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although the Corporation believes that its safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, the Corporation could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed its resources. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, or that its business, financial condition, and results of operations will not be materially or adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. The Corporation’s insurance may not provide adequate coverage with respect to environmental matters. Environmental regulation could have a material adverse effect on the results of the Corporation’s operations and its financial position. The Corporation is subject to a broad range of environmental regulations imposed by federal, state, provincial, and local governmental authorities. Such environmental regulation relates to, among other things, the handling and storage of hazardous materials, the disposal of waste, and the discharge of 20 contaminants into the environment. Although the Corporation believes that it is in material compliance with applicable environmental regulation, as a result of the potential existence of unknown environmental issues and frequent changes to environmental regulation and the interpretation and enforcement thereof, there can be no assurance that compliance with environmental regulation or obligations imposed thereunder will not have a material adverse effect on the Corporation in the future. The Corporation is exposed to foreign exchange movements since the majority of its debt financing and its commercial sales operations are denominated in U.S. currency. At May 31, 2008, the Corporation had US$36.2 million in debt offset by US$19.5 million in cash and cash equivalents. As well, the majority of the Corporation’s sales revenues and a substantial portion of its selling, general and administrative expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company does not utilize derivatives, such as foreign currency forward contracts and futures contracts, to manage its exposure to currency risk and as a result a change in the value of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar could have a negative impact on the Company’s business prospects, financial results and financial condition. The Corporation is exposed to changes in underlying interest rates on the portion of its debt financed based on floating interest rates. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on a portion of its debt financing and there are no financial contracts in place to offset this risk. An increase in underlying interest rates could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial results and financial condition. The Corporation may need to raise additional capital through the sale of its securities, resulting in dilution to its existing shareholders. Such funds may not be available, or may not be available on reasonable terms, adversely affecting the Corporation’s operations. The Corporation has limited financial resources and has financed its operations through the sale of securities, primarily common shares. The Corporation has significant on-going cash expenses and limited ability to generate cash from operations. To meet its on-going cash needs the Corporation will need to continue its reliance on the sale of such securities for future financing, resulting in dilution to its existing shareholders. The Corporation’s long-term capital requirements may be notably significant and will depend on many factors, including continued scientific progress in its product discovery and development program, progress in its pre-clinical and clinical evaluation of products and product candidates, time and expense associated with filing, prosecuting and enforcing its patent claims and costs associated with obtaining regulatory approvals. In order to meet such capital requirements, the Corporation will consider contract fees, collaborative research and development arrangements, public financing or additional private financing (including the issuance of additional equity securities) to fund all or a part of particular programs. The Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on its ability to obtain additional financing which may not be available under favourable terms, if at all. The Corporation’s ability to arrange such financing in the future will depend in part upon the prevailing capital market conditions as well as its business performance. If its capital resources are exhausted and adequate funds are not available, the Corporation may have to reduce substantially or eliminate expenditures for research and development, testing, production and marketing of its proposed products, or obtain funds through arrangements with corporate partners that require it to relinquish rights to certain of its technologies or products. Future issuance of the Corporation’s common shares will result in dilution to its existing shareholders. Additionally, future sales of the Corporation’s common shares into the public market may lower the market price which may result in losses to its shareholders. As of May 31, 2008, the Corporation had 130,307,552, common shares issued and outstanding. A further 4,614,383 common shares are issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and another 16,065,381 common shares are issuable upon exercise of share purchase warrants, all of which may be exercised in 21 the future resulting in dilution to the Corporation’s shareholders. The Corporation’s stock option plan allows for the issuance of stock options to purchase up to a maximum of 10% of the outstanding common shares at any time. The common shares to be issued upon exercise of the outstanding options and warrants will be freely tradable and not subject to any hold period when issued. Sales of substantial amounts of the Corporation’s common shares into the public market, or even the perception by the market that such sales may occur, may lower the market price of its common shares. The Corporation’s common shares may experience extreme price and volume volatility which may result in losses to its shareholders. On May 31, 2008, the Corporation’s common shares closed at a price of CDN$0.07 on the TSX and US$0.06 on the AMEX. For the period from June 1, 2007 to May 31, 2008, the high and low trading prices of the Corporation’s common shares on the TSX were CDN$1.70 and CDN$0.06, respectively, with a total trading volume of 114,926,000 shares. For the period from June 1, 2007 to May 31, 2008, the high and low trading prices of the Corporation’s common shares on the AMEX were US$1.65 and US$0.05, respectively, with a total trading volume of 61,259,600. Daily trading volume on the TSX of the Corporation’s common shares for the period from June 1, 2007 to May 31, 2008 has fluctuated, with a high of 25,845,200 shares and a low of 5,500 shares, averaging approximately 457,873 shares. Daily trading volume on the AMEX in the Corporation’s common shares for the period from June 1, 2007 to May 31, 2008 has fluctuated with a high of 10,301,400 and a low of 4,700, averaging approximately 243,094. Accordingly, the trading price of the Corporation’s common shares may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors including announcement of material events by the Corporation such as the status of required regulatory approvals for its products, competition by new products or new innovations, fluctuations in its operating results, general and industry-specific economic conditions and developments pertaining to patent and proprietary rights. The trading price of the Corporation’s common shares may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors and/or announcements concerning such factors, including: actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; litigation or threat of litigation; failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; new or existing products or services or technological innovations by the Corporation or its competitors; comments or opinions by securities analysts or major shareholders; conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and life science industries; significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; results of, and developments in, the Corporation’s research and development efforts, including results and adequacy of, and developments in, its clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval; additions or departures of key personnel; sales of the Corporation’s common shares, including by holders of the notes on conversion or repayment by the Corporation in common shares; economic and other external factors or disasters or crises; limited daily trading volume; and 22 developments regarding the Corporation’s patents or other intellectual property or that of its competitors. In addition, the securities markets in the United States and Canada have recently experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of biotechnology companies have experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. In addition, because of the limited public float, there may be limited liquidity for the Corporation’s common shares. It is expected that such fluctuations in price and limited liquidity will continue in the foreseeable future which may make it difficult for a shareholder to sell shares at a price equal to or above the price at which the shares were purchased. There may not be an active, liquid market for the Corporation’s common shares. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for the Corporation’s common shares will be maintained on AMEX or the TSX. Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in its common shares is not active. On June 18, 2008, the Corporation announced its intention to file a Form 25 with the Securities and Exchange Commission in order to voluntarily delist its common shares from the Amex. The Corporation’s shares ceased trading on the Amex effective July 3, 2008. If there are substantial sales of the Corporation’s common shares, the market price of its common shares could decline. Sales of substantial numbers of the Corporation’s common shares could cause a decline in the market price of its common shares. Any sales by existing shareholders or holders of options or warrants may have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s ability to raise capital and may adversely affect the market price of its common shares. The Corporation has no history of paying dividends, does not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and may never pay dividends. Since incorporation, the Corporation has not paid any cash or other dividends on its common shares and does not expect to pay such dividends in the foreseeable future as all available funds will be invested to finance the growth of its business. The Corporation will need to achieve profitability prior to any dividends being declared, which may never happen. If the Corporation’s is classified as a “passive foreign investment company” for United States income tax purposes, it could have significant and adverse tax consequences to United States holders of its common shares. The Corporation does not believe that it was a “passive foreign investment company” for the taxable year ended May 31, 2008, and does not expect that it will be a “passive foreign investment company” (PFIC) for the taxable year ending May 31, 2009. (See more detailed discussion in Item 10 E – Taxation) However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the determination made by the Corporation concerning its “passive foreign investment company” status or that the Corporation will not be a “passive foreign investment company” for the current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. Accordingly, although the Corporation expects that it may be a QFC for the taxable year ending May 31, 2009, there can be no assurances that the IRS will not challenge the determination made by the Corporation concerning its QFC status, that the Corporation will be a QFC for the taxable year ending May 31, 2009 or any subsequent taxable year, or that the Corporation will be able to certify that it is a QFC in accordance with the certification procedures issued by the Treasury and the IRS. The Corporation’s classification as a PFIC could have significant and adverse tax consequences for United States holders of its common shares. 23 The Corporation has adopted a shareholder rights plan. The Corporation has adopted a shareholder rights plan. The provisions of such plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of the Corporation’s outstanding common shares, the effect of which may be to deprive the Corporation’s shareholders of a control premium that might otherwise be realized in connection with an acquisition of its common shares. Risks associated with Material weaknesses within the Company’s financial reporting and review process In connection with its review of the Company’s internal control over financial Reporting, KPMG, the Company’s external auditors, identified a martial weakness with the Company’s financial reporting and review process, involving the preparation and review of the reconciliation form Canadian GAAP to United States GAAP. Based on such determination, the Company’s management concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was not effective. The company either plans to ensure adequate personnel are available with the necessary training and expertise or reliance on a external third party to provided this control, any failure to remediate the material weakness, to implement the required new or improved control, or difficulties encountered in the implementation, could cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations on a timely basis ore result in material misstatements in the annual or interim financial statements. Inadequate internal control over financial reporting could also cause investor to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could cause the Company’s stock price to decline 