D. Risk Factors The Corporation is subject to a number of risks due to the nature of its business and the present stage of development of business. The following factors should be considered: THE CORPORATION’S PROSPECTS MUST BE CONSIDERED IN LIGHT OF THE DIFFICULTIES FREQUENTLY ENCOUNTERED BY COMPANIES IN THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT STAGE. MOREOVER, THE CORPORATION IS A RECENTLY PUBLIC CORPORATION WITH A LIMITED HISTORY OF OPERATIONS WHICH MAKES EVALUATION OF ITS PROSPECTS DIFFICULT. The Corporation began operations in 1997 and its common shares were listed on the Canadian Venture Exchange from November 23, 1999 to March 14, 2002. The Corporation commenced trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) on March 15, 2002 and on the American Stock Exchange (Amex) on February 17, 2004. The Corporation has concentrated on research and development and has a limited operating history. The Corporation's prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered with the establishment of a development stage company in a highly competitive industry, characterized by frequent new product introductions. The Corporation has had no earnings to date, and may never have earnings or positive cash flow in the future. As a result of these factors, it is difficult to evaluate the Corporation’s business and prospects for future profitability, and its success is more uncertain than if it had a longer or more proven history of operations. THE CORPORATION EXPECTS TO CONTINUE TO INCUR SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES AND MAY NEVER ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY, WHICH IN TURN MAY HARM THE FUTURE OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND MAY CAUSE THE MARKET PRICE OF THE CORPORATION’S STOCK TO DECLINE. The Corporation has incurred net losses every year since inception in 1997 and as of May 31, 2005, had an accumulated deficit of $33,520,492. The Corporation incurred net losses of $14,865,910 for the year ended May 31, 2005, $5,989,086 for the year ended May 31, 2004, $4,193,688 for the year ended May 31, 2003, $3,875,087 for the year ended May 31, 2002 and $3,232,010 for the year ended May 31, 2001. 9 The Corporation anticipates that its losses will not only continue for the foreseeable future but will increase significantly principally from expenditures relating to its research and development efforts and clinical trials. The long-term profitability of the Corporation’s operations is uncertain, and may never occur, and will be directly related to the success of its research and development activities which depend on numerous factors, including the following: a) the success of the Corporation’s clinical development programs; b) obtaining Canadian and United States regulatory approvals to market MC-1 and MC-4232, the Corporation’s lead products; c) the ability to manufacture the Corporation’s products according to schedule and within budget, given that it has no experience in large scale manufacturing; and d) the ability to successfully market the Corporation’s products, given that it has no experience in marketing; If the Corporation does achieve profitability, it may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. THE CORPORATION MAY NEVER RECEIVE REGULATORY APPROVAL IN CANADA OR ABROAD FOR ANY OF ITS PRODUCTS DEVELOPED. THEREFORE, THE CORPORATION MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SELL ANY THERAPEUTIC PRODUCTS DEVELOPED. The Corporation’s failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals to fully market its current and future therapeutic products in one or more significant markets may adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The procedure involved in obtaining regulatory approval from the competent authorities to market therapeutic products is long and costly and may delay product development. The approval to market a product may be applicable to a limited extent only or it may be refused entirely. The Corporation’s products and technologies are currently in the preliminary research and development stages. The Corporation does not and may never have a commercially viable drug formulation approved for marketing. To obtain regulatory approvals for the Corporation’s products and to achieve commercial success, human clinical trials must demonstrate that the products are safe for human use and that they show efficacy. Unsatisfactory results obtained from a particular study relating to one or more of the Corporation’s products may cause the Corporation to reduce or abandon its commitment to that program. The Corporation would not obtain approval from the Canadian Therapeutic Products Directorate, formerly the Canadian Health Protection Branch (TPD) or the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to market its lead product, MC-1 or its second clinical candidate MC-4232 if it failed to successfully complete its Phase II or Phase III clinical studies. Regulatory approvals may also be subject to conditions that could limit the market for MC-1 or MC-4232 or make it more difficult or expensive to sell than anticipated. Also, regulatory approvals may be revoked for a variety of reasons at any time, including the Corporation’s failure to comply with regulatory requirements or poor performance of MC-1 or MC-4232 in terms of safety and effectiveness. The Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if it failed to obtain regulatory approvals in Canada, the United States or abroad to market MC-1 or MC-4232 or any future therapeutic products, including any limitations imposed to market such products. THE CORPORATION MAY NOT BE ABLE TO HIRE OR RETAIN THE QUALIFIED SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL AND MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL IT REQUIRES. The Corporation is under contract with CanAm Bioresearch Inc. (“CanAm”) for a significant amount of its research and development activities. Because of the specialized scientific nature of the Corporation’s business, the loss of services of CanAm may require the Corporation to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and management personnel. Competition in the biotechnology industry for such 10 personnel is intense and the Corporation may not be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel, which may compromise the pace and success of its research and development activities. Also, certain management personnel of the Corporation are officers and/or directors of other publicly- traded companies and will only devote part of their time to the Corporation. The Corporation does not have key man insurance in effect in the event of a loss of any management personnel. THE CORPORATION FACES SUBSTANTIAL TECHNOLOGICAL COMPETITION FROM MANY BIOTECHNOLOGY COMPANIES WITH MUCH GREATER RESOURCES, AND IT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EFFECTIVELY COMPETE. Technological competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. The Corporation competes with other companies in Canada, the United States and abroad to develop products designed to treat similar conditions. Many of these other companies have substantially greater financial, technical research and development resources and production and marketing capabilities than the Corporation. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Developments by other companies may adversely affect the competitiveness of the Corporation’s products or technologies or the commitment of the Corporation’s research collaborators to its programs or even render the Corporation’s products obsolete. The pharmaceutical industry is also characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological change. Competition can be expected to increase as technological advances are made and commercial applications for biopharmaceutical products increase. Competitors of the Corporation may use different technologies or approaches to develop products similar to products which the Corporation is seeking to develop, or may develop new or enhanced products for processes that may be more effective, less expensive, safer or more readily available before the Corporation obtains approval of its products. The Corporation may not be able to successfully compete with its competitors and, if it is unable to do so, the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. THE CORPORATION MAY BE UNABLE TO ESTABLISH COLLABORATIVE AND COMMERCIAL RELATIONSHIPS WITH THIRD PARTIES. The success of the Corporation will depend partly on its ability to enter into and to maintain various arrangements with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others for the research, development, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of its products. To date, the Corporation has not entered into any such arrangements and may never be able to establish such arrangements on favourable terms. The failure to establish successful collaborative arrangements with respect to certain products may negatively impact the Corporation's ability to commercialize those products and adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation has licensed certain technologies relating to products under development and may enter into future licensing agreements. The Corporation's current licensing agreements contain provisions allowing the licensors to terminate such agreements if the Corporation becomes insolvent or breaches the terms and conditions of the licensing agreement, without rectifying same upon notice. THE CORPORATION DOES NOT HAVE MANUFACTURING OR MARKETING EXPERIENCE AND MAY NEVER BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY MANUFACTURE OR MARKET ITS PRODUCTS. The Corporation has no experience in large-scale manufacturing and in marketing its products and may never be able to successfully manufacture and market its products. If the TPD or FDA approves MC-1, MC-4232 or any future products, the Corporation intends to rely on third parties to manufacture or market its products. Accordingly, the quality, timing and ultimately the commercial success of such products may be outside the Corporation’s control. Failure of or delay by a manufacturer of the Corporation's products to comply with Good Manufacturing Practices or similar quality control regulations or satisfy regulatory inspections may have a material adverse effect on the future prospects of the Corporation. Also, providers, payers or patients may not accept the Corporation's products, even if they prove to be 11 safe and effective and are approved for marketing by the TPD, the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The Corporation estimates that it may take up to three years or longer before the Corporation's initial products may be sold commercially. Other competitors may be in a position to bring competing products to market within a shorter time frame. THE CORPORATION HAS LIMITED PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN ADEQUATE PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE IN THE FUTURE. The sale and use of products under development by the Corporation, and the conduct of clinical studies involving human subjects, may entail product and professional liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of new drugs to humans. While the Corporation has taken, and will continue to take, what it believes are appropriate precautions, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will avoid significant liability exposure. Although the Corporation currently carries product liability insurance for clinical trials, there can be no assurance that it has sufficient coverage, or can in the future obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost. An inability to obtain insurance on economically feasible terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit or prevent the commercialization of products developed by the Corporation. The obligation to pay any product liability claim or recall a product may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and future prospects of the Corporation. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful, adverse publicity and time and expense of defending such a claim may significantly interfere with the Corporation’s business. IF THE CORPORATION IS UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY PROTECT ITS PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, THE CORPORATION’S COMPETITIVE POSITION WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. The success of the Corporation will depend partly on its ability to obtain and protect its patents and protect its proprietary rights in unpatented trade secrets. The Corporation owns or jointly owns 15 United States patents and has received a Notice of Allowance for two other patents from the United States Patent Office. The Corporation has an additional 15 pending United States patent applications. The Corporation’s pending and any future patent applications may not be accepted by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or any other jurisdiction in which applications may be filed. Also, processes or products that may be developed by the Corporation in the future may not be patentable. The patent protection afforded to biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies is uncertain and involves many complex legal, scientific and factual questions. There is no clear law or policy involving the degree of protection afforded under patents. As a result, the scope of patents issued to the Corporation may not successfully prevent third parties from developing similar or competitive products. Competitors may develop similar or competitive products that do not conflict with the Corporation’s patents. Litigation may be commenced by the Corporation to prevent infringement of its patents. Litigation may also commence against the Corporation to challenge the Corporation’s patents that, if successful, may result in the narrowing or invalidating of such patents. It is not possible to predict how any patent litigation will affect the Corporation's efforts to develop, manufacture or market its products. However, the cost of litigation to prevent infringement or uphold the validity of any patents issued to the Corporation may be significant in which case the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Disclosure and use of the Corporation's proprietary rights in unpatented trade secrets not otherwise protected by patents are generally controlled by written agreements. However, such agreements will not provide the Corporation with adequate protection if they are not honoured, others independently develop equivalent technology, disputes arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the Corporation's trade secrets are disclosed improperly. To the extent that consultants or other research collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work with the Corporation, disputes may also arise as to the rights to related or resulting know-how or inventions. 12 OTHERS COULD CLAIM THAT THE CORPORATION INFRINGES ON THEIR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, WHICH MAY RESULT IN COSTLY AND TIME CONSUMING LITIGATION. The success of the Corporation will depend partly on its ability to operate without infringing upon the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. To the best of its knowledge, the Corporation is not currently aware that any of its products or processes infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. However, despite the best efforts of the Corporation, it may be sued for infringing on the patent or other proprietary rights of third parties at any time in the future. Such litigation, with or without merit, is time-consuming and costly and may significantly impact the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations, even if the Corporation prevails. If it does not prevail, the Corporation, in addition to any damages it may have to pay, may be required to stop the infringing activity or enter into a royalty or licensing agreement. The Corporation may not be able to obtain such a license or the terms of the royalty or license may be burdensome for the Corporation, which may significantly impair its ability to market its products and adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation. THE CORPORATION IS, AND IN THE FUTURE MAY BECOME, SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS AND IF IT IS UNABLE TO COMPLY WITH THEM, THE CORPORATION’S BUSINESS MAY BE MATERIALLY HARMED. The Corporation is or may become subject to various federal, provincial, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations. The Corporation is subject to various laws and regulations in Canada, relating to product emissions, use and disposal of hazardous or toxic chemicals or potentially hazardous substances, infectious disease agents and other materials, and laboratory and manufacturing practices used in connection with its research and development activities. If the Corporation fails to comply with these regulations, the Corporation may be fined or suffer other consequences that could materially affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. The Corporation is unable to predict the extent of future government regulations or industry standards. However, it should be assumed that government regulations or standards will increase in the future. New regulations or standards may result in increased costs, including costs for obtaining permits, delays or fines resulting from loss of permits or failure to comply with regulations. THE CORPORATION WILL NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL THROUGH THE SALE OF ITS SECURITIES, RESULTING IN DILUTION TO THE EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS, AND WHICH MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE, ADVERSELY AFFECTING ITS OPERATIONS. The Corporation has not to date generated any revenues from sales. The timing of generation of any sales is uncertain. Based on the Corporation’s current plans, the Corporation’s available working capital will be sufficient into fiscal 2007. The Corporation has limited financial resources and has financed its operations through the sale of securities, primarily common shares. The Corporation will need to continue its reliance on the sale of such securities for future financing, resulting in dilution to the Corporation’s existing shareholders. The Corporation's long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including continued scientific progress in its product discovery and development program, progress in its pre-clinical and clinical evaluation of products and product candidates, time and expense associated with filing, prosecuting and enforcing its patent claims and costs associated with obtaining regulatory approvals. In order to meet such capital requirements, the Corporation will consider contract fees, collaborative research and development arrangements, public financing or additional private financing (including the issuance of additional equity securities) to fund all or a part of particular programs. The Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on its ability to obtain additional financing which may not be available under favourable terms, if at all. The ability of the Corporation to arrange such financing in the future will depend in part upon the prevailing capital market 13 conditions as well as the business performance of the Corporation. If the Corporation’s capital resources are exhausted and adequate funds are not available, it may have to reduce substantially or eliminate expenditures for research and development, testing, production and marketing of its proposed products, or obtain funds through arrangements with corporate partners that require the Corporation to relinquish rights to certain of its technologies or products. FUTURE ISSUANCE OF THE CORPORATION’S COMMON SHARES WILL RESULT IN DILUTION TO THE EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS. ADDITIONALLY, FUTURE SALES OF THE CORPORATION’S COMMON SHARES INTO THE PUBLIC MARKET MAY LOWER THE MARKET PRICE WHICH MAY RESULT IN LOSSES TO THE CORPORATION’S SHAREHOLDERS. As of May 31, 2005, the Corporation had 66,826,660 common shares issued and outstanding. A further 2,372,333 common shares are issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and another 502,403 common shares are issuable upon exercise of share purchase warrants, all of which may be exercised in the future resulting in dilution to the Corporation’s shareholders. The Corporation’s stock option plan allows for the issuance of stock options to purchase up to a maximum of 4,700,000 of the common shares issued and outstanding as of May 31, 2005. Under the plan the Corporation is able to grant an additional 1,346,667 share options as at May 31, 2005. These common shares, including the common shares to be issued upon exercise of the outstanding options and warrants, are freely tradable. Sales of substantial amounts of the Corporation’s common shares into the public market, or even the perception by the market that such sales may occur, may lower the market price of its common shares. THE CORPORATION’S COMMON SHARES MAY EXPERIENCE EXTREME PRICE AND VOLUME VOLATILITY WHICH MAY RESULT IN LOSSES TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE CORPORATION. On May 31, 2005, the Corporation’s common shares closed at a price of $1.03 (US$0.82 on the Amex). For the period from June 1, 2004 to May 31, 2005, the high and low trading prices of the Corporation’s common shares on the TSX were $1.87 and $0.65, respectively, with a total trading volume of 56,599,000 shares. For the period from June 1, 2004 to May 31, 2005, the high and low trading prices of the Corporation’s common shares on the Amex were US$1.37 and US$0.57, respectively, with a total trading volume of 5,996,400. Daily trading volume on the TSX in the Corporation’s common stock for the period from June 1, 2004 to May 31, 2005 has fluctuated, with a high of 5,660,300 shares and a low of 2,400 shares, averaging approximately 224,599 shares. Daily trading volume on the Amex in the Corporation’s common stock for the period from June 1, 2004 to May 31, 2005 has fluctuated with a high of 560,100 and a low of nil, averaging approximately 23,795. Accordingly, the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors including announcement of material events by the Corporation such as the status of required regulatory approvals for the Corporation’s products, competition by new products or new innovations, fluctuations in the operating results of the Corporation, general and industry-specific economic conditions and developments pertaining to patent and proprietary rights. The securities markets in the United States and Canada have recently experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of biotechnology companies have experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. In addition, because of the limited public float, there may be limited liquidity for the Common Shares. It is expected that such fluctuations in price and limited liquidity will continue in the foreseeable future which may make it difficult for a shareholder to sell shares at a price equal to or above the price at which the shares were purchased. THE CORPORATION’S COMMON SHARES ARE CONSIDERED “PENNY STOCK” WHICH MAY HAVE THE EFFECT OF REDUCING THE LEVEL OF TRADING ACTIVITY AND MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT TO SELL SUCH SHARES. 14 The Corporation’s shares are “penny stock” as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which might affect the trading market for the shares. Penny stocks are generally equity securities with a price of less than U.S.$5.00 other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ National Market. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and compensation information must be given to the customer orally or in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that is subject to the penny stock rules, such as the Corporation’s shares which are considered “penny stock”, and therefore make it more difficult to sell those shares. The Corporation commenced trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange on March 15, 2002 and on the American Stock Exchange on February 17, 2004. THE CORPORATION HAS NO HISTORY OF PAYING DIVIDENDS, DOES NOT INTEND TO PAY DIVIDENDS IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE AND MAY NEVER PAY DIVIDENDS. Since incorporation, the Corporation has not paid any cash or other dividends on its common stock and does not expect to pay such dividends in the foreseeable future as all available funds will be invested to finance the growth of its business. The Corporation will need to achieve profitability prior to any dividends being declared, which may never happen. INVESTORS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SECURE FOREIGN ENFORCEMENT OF CIVIL LIABILITIES AGAINST OUR MANAGEMENT The enforcement by investors of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the United States may be adversely affected by the fact that the Corporation is organized under the laws of Canada, that all of its officers and directors are residents of a foreign country and that all or a substantial portion of its assets and such person's assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of the Common Shares to effect service of process on such persons within the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments rendered against them. 