Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We operate in a highly competitive industry with excess drilling capacity which can adversely affect our results of operations. The contract land drilling services industry in which we operate is very competitive. Further, drilling rigs are mobile and can be moved from one region to another in response to market conditions, which heightens the competition in the industry. Over the last few years, there has been a substantial increase in the supply of land drilling rigs, whether through new construction or refurbishment. In recent months, while there has been an increase in land drilling activities, particularly oil and liquids-rich natural gas directed, it has been dominated by the large or higher performance rigs. As a result, there is currently excess capacity for smaller rigs. Excess capacity and price competition can negatively impact our revenue rates, utilization and profitability, as well as the value of our rig equipment, which could result in write-downs of our asset carrying values. Our business and operations are substantially dependent upon, and affected by, the level of U.S. land-based oil and natural gas exploration and development activity, which has experienced significant volatility. If the level of that activity is depressed, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business and operations are substantially dependent upon, and affected by, the level of U.S. land-based oil and natural gas exploration and development activity. Exploration and development activity determines the demand for contract land drilling and related services. We have no control over the factors driving the level of U.S. oil and natural gas exploration and development activity. If the level of that activity is depressed, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Other factors include, among others, the following: • the market prices of oil and natural gas; 9 Table of Contents • market expectations about future prices of oil and natural gas; • the cost of producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • the capacity of the oil and natural gas pipeline network; • government regulations and trade restrictions; • the presence or absence of tax incentives; • national and international political and economic conditions; • levels of production by, and other activities of, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and natural gas producers; • the levels of imports of natural gas, whether by pipelines from Canada or Mexico or by tankers in the form of LNG; and • the development of alternate energy sources and the long-term effects of worldwide energy conservation measures. We cannot accurately predict the future level of demand for, or pricing of, oil and natural gas, for our contract drilling services or overall future conditions in the land-based contract drilling industry. A weak global economy may affect the Company’s business. As a result of volatility in natural gas prices and lingering uncertainty of when the global economic environment will experience a sustained recovery, the Company is unable to accurately predict the extent to which its customers will spend on exploration and development drilling or whether customers and /or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain or increase their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. Furthermore, the Company is unable to predict the extent its existing customers will have continuing viability and capability to pay amounts owed to the Company. The overall weak economic environment continues to impact industry fundamentals, particularly demand for the smaller, conventional style drilling rigs. These conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, including limiting the growth of our revenues and potential impairments of our rig fleet. In the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived approximately 47% of our total revenues from our top three customers. The loss of any of our principal customers and the failure to remarket the rigs employed by those customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the year ended December 31, 2010, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 27%, 14% and 6%, respectively, of our total revenues. Our principal customers may not continue to employ our services and we may not be able to successfully remarket the rigs. The loss of any of our principal customers and the failure to remarket the rigs utilized by those customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot keep our rigs utilized at profitable rates, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our business has high fixed costs, and if we cannot keep our rigs utilized at profitable rates, our operating results could be adversely affected through reductions in our revenues and impairments of our rig fleet. Increased competition in our drilling markets could adversely affect rates and utilization of our rigs, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We face competition from significantly larger domestic and international drilling contractors, many with greater resources. Their greater resources may enable them to allocate those resources into any of our regional markets. The additional competition in our markets, either by existing competitors or new entrants would increase the rig supply in those markets, which could adversely affect the rates we can charge and utilization levels we can achieve. New technologies may cause our drilling methods or equipment to become less competitive, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors’ equipment could make our equipment, especially our smaller, conventional rigs, less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep our equipment competitive. 10 Table of Contents Term contracts may in certain instances be terminated without an early termination payment. Term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an “early termination payment” to be paid to the Company if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the term. However, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, limited capital resources of the customer or bankruptcy of the customer, no early termination payment may be paid to the Company or, if paid, not paid in full or in a timely manner. Even if an early termination payment is owed to the Company, the customer may not have the ability to timely pay (or pay at all) the early termination payment. Increased or decreased demand among drilling contractors for consumable supplies, including fuel, and ancillary rig equipment, such as pumps, valves, drillpipe and engines, may lead to delays in obtaining these materials and our inability to operate our rigs in an efficient manner. Most of our contracts provide that our customers bear the financial impact of increased fuel prices. However, prolonged shortages in the availability of fuel to run our drilling rigs resulting from action of the elements, warlike actions or other ‘Force Majeure’ events could result in the suspension of our contracts and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have periodically experienced increased lead times in purchasing ancillary equipment for our drilling rigs. To the extent there are significant delays in being able to purchase important components for our rigs, certain of our rigs may not be available for operation or may not be able to operate as efficiently as expected, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Reduced demand can drive suppliers from the market. With reduced suppliers, consumables for our operations may not be readily available. Additionally, suppliers may experience shortfalls in obtaining their materials and/or labor. Suppliers who have been regular providers to us may experience shortfalls and that may lead to delays as we secure other sources. To the extent we acquire additional rigs in the future, we may experience difficulty integrating those acquisitions. Additionally, we may incur leverage to effect those acquisitions, which adds additional financial risk to our business. To the extent we incur additional leverage in financing acquisitions, it may adversely affect our financial position. The process of integrating acquired rigs or newly constructed rigs may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention and other resources. We may not be able to successfully manage and integrate new rigs into our existing operations or successfully maintain the market share attributable to drilling rigs that we purchase. We also may encounter cost overruns related to newly constructed rigs or unexpected costs related to acquired rigs. To the extent we experience some or all of these difficulties, our financial condition could be adversely affected. Expanding our fleet by building new rigs or acquiring rigs from third parties may cause us to incur additional financial leverage, increasing our financial risk, and debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We may decide to purchase or internally build additional drilling rigs and upgrade or refurbish some of our marketed drilling rigs. Any delay could result in a loss of revenue. We may purchase or internally build additional drilling rigs and upgrade or refurbish some of our current drilling rigs. All of these projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in large construction projects. Among those risks are: • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; • long lead times or delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; • engineering problems; • work stoppages; • weather interference; • availability of specialized services; and • cost increases. 11 Table of Contents These factors may contribute to delays in the delivery, upgrade or completion of the refurbishment of the drilling rigs, which could result in a loss of revenue. Additionally, we may incur higher costs than expected, which would adversely affect the economics of the investment in such rigs. We may not be able to raise additional funds through public or private financings or additional borrowings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The contract drilling industry is capital intensive. Our cash flow from operations and the continued availability of credit are subject to a number of variables, including general economic conditions, and more specifically, our rig utilization rates, operating margins and ability to control costs and obtain contracts in a competitive industry. Our cash flow from operations and present borrowing capacity may not be sufficient to fund our anticipated acquisition program, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. We may from time to time seek additional financing, either in the form of bank borrowings, sales of debt or equity securities or otherwise. To the extent our capital resources and cash flow from operations are at any time insufficient to fund our activities or repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, we will need to raise additional funds through public or private financings or additional borrowings. We may not be able to obtain any such capital resources in the amount or at the time when needed. If we are at any time not able to obtain the necessary capital resources, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We could be adversely affected if we lost the services of certain of our senior officers and key employees. The success of our business is highly dependent upon the services, efforts and abilities of certain key employees, such as our regional managers and of Christopher D. Strong, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Tina L. Castillo, our Chief Financial Officer and David S. Goldberg, our General Counsel. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the loss of any of these individuals. We have limited employment agreements with some key employees. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of any of our executive officers. Competition for experienced technical personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. We utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our business. In times of high utilization, it can be difficult to retain, and in some cases, find qualified individuals. Although to date our operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain or find a sufficient number of qualified personnel could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations could be adversely affected by abnormally poor weather conditions. Our operations are conducted in areas subject to poor weather conditions, and often in difficult terrain. Primarily in the winter and spring, our operations are often curtailed because of cold, snow or muddy conditions. Unusually severe weather conditions could further curtail our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have limited control over the timing of payment of our deferred tax liabilities. We currently have deferred tax liabilities and have limited control over the timing of the payment of these deferrals. These deferred liabilities could come due at a time when our revenues are reduced. This could cause tax payments to be due at a time when our cash flow from operations is reduced. Such a situation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the land drilling business beyond our control. If those risks are not adequately insured or indemnified against, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the land drilling business, including, but not limited to: • blowouts; • craterings; • fires; • explosions; • equipment failures; • poisonous gas emissions; • loss of well control; 12 Table of Contents • loss of hole; • damaged or lost equipment; and • damage or loss from inclement weather or natural disasters. These hazards are to some extent beyond our control and could cause, among other things: • personal injury or death; • serious damage to or destruction of property and equipment; • suspension of drilling operations; and • damage to the environment, including damage to producing formations and surrounding areas. Our insurance policies for public liability and property damage to others and injury or death to persons are in some cases subject to large deductibles and may not be sufficient to protect us against liability for all consequences of well disasters, personal injury, extensive fire damage or damage to the environment. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable, or particular types of coverage may not be available. The occurrence of events, including any of the above-mentioned risks and hazards, that are not fully insured against or the failure of a customer that has agreed to indemnify us against certain liabilities to meet its indemnification obligations could subject us to significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to liabilities for noncompliance, which could adversely affect us. The U.S. oil and natural gas industry is affected from time to time in varying degrees by political developments and federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable to our business. Our operations are vulnerable to certain risks arising from the numerous environmental health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling activities, require reporting of the storage, use or release of certain chemicals and hazardous substances, require removal or cleanup of contamination under certain circumstances, and impose substantial civil liabilities or criminal penalties for violations. Environmental laws and regulations may impose strict liability, rendering a company liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault, and could expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others, or for our acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such acts were performed. Moreover, there has been a trend in recent years toward stricter standards in environmental, health and safety legislation and regulation, which may continue. While the scientific debate concerning the impact of human activities on world climate change continues, we recognize the need to minimize in a commercially reasonable manner our impact on the environment, including the release of greenhouse gases. We may incur material liability related to our operations under governmental regulations, including environmental, health and safety requirements. We cannot predict how existing laws and regulations may be interpreted by enforcement agencies or court rulings, whether additional laws and regulations will be adopted, or the effect such changes may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because the requirements imposed by such laws and regulations are subject to change, we are unable to forecast the ultimate cost of compliance with such requirements. The modification of existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations, both in the U.S. and globally, which directly or indirectly curtail exploratory or development drilling for oil and natural gas for economic, political, environmental or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on us by limiting drilling opportunities. New legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing including the impact on drinking water sources and public health, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states (such as New York) have and others are considering adopting regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. Any new laws, regulations or permitting requirements regarding hydraulic fracturing could lead to operational delays, increased costs, or third party or governmental claims, and could result in additional burdens that could serve to delay or limit the drilling services we provide to third parties whose drilling operations could be impacted by these regulations or increase our costs of compliance and doing business as well as delay the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. 13 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our revolving credit facility contains various provisions that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These provisions limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • issue certain preferred shares; • unless certain conditions are satisfied, pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments, including capital expenditures; • sell certain assets; • create liens; and • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our principal stockholder has significant ownership. As of February 28, 2011, Union Drilling Company LLC, our principal stockholder, owned approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Union Drilling Company LLC and its affiliates may substantially influence the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. The existence of this level of ownership concentration makes it less likely that any small holder of our common stock will be able to affect the management or direction of Union Drilling. These factors may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in the management or voting control of Union Drilling. Trading volume of our common stock may contribute to its price volatility. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. During the period from January 1, 2010 through February 28, 2011, the average daily trading volume of our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market was 60,695 shares. There can be no assurance that a more or less active trading market in our common stock will develop. As a result, relatively small or large trades may have a disproportionate impact on the price of our common stock and, therefore, may contribute to the price volatility of our common stock. As a result, our common stock may be subject to greater price volatility than the stock market when taken as a whole, or comparable securities of other contract drilling service providers, who may or may not have greater volumes. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. During the period from January 1, 2010 through February 28, 2011, the trading price of our common stock ranged from $4.28 to $8.66 per share. Because of the limited trading market of our common stock and the price volatility of our common stock, you may be unable to fully sell shares of our common stock when you desire or at a price you desire. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and therefore only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may not occur, will provide a return to our stockholders. We currently anticipate that we will retain all future earnings, if any, to finance growth and development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. In addition, the terms of our revolving credit facility restrict us from paying dividends and making other distributions unless certain conditions are satisfied. As a result, presently only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may not occur, will provide a return to our stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as Delaware corporate law may make a takeover difficult. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or in a change to our management and board of directors. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 