Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information before deciding to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We have attempted to identify below the major factors that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results, but we cannot assure you that we have identified all of those factors. If any of the following risks actually happen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Company We are at an early stage of development and have not generated any revenue. We are a development-stage company with a limited operating history, and we have not generated any revenues to date. We have no therapeutic products available for sale, and none are expected to be commercially available for several years, if at all. We may never generate revenue or become profitable, even if we are able to commercialize any products. 10 Table of Contents We have incurred net losses to date and must raise additional capital in 2008. We have incurred net losses in each year of operation. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $35.2 million We will need to continue to conduct significant research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities that, together with projected general and administrative expenses, we expect will result in substantial operating losses for the next several years. Accordingly, we do not expect to be generating sales or other revenue and will remain dependent on outside sources of financing during that time. If we are unable to raise funds from outside sources for our continuing operations, we may be adversely affected. We may raise such capital through public or private equity financings, partnerships, debt financings, bank borrowings, or other sources. Additional funding may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not otherwise available, we may need to significantly curtail operations. To obtain additional funding, we may need to enter into arrangements that require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies, products and/or potential markets. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, our equity holders may experience dilution of their proportionate ownership of the company. Based on approximately $1.3 million of available cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2007 and net proceeds of approximately $3.4 million from our registered direct offering completed on February 25, 2008, we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our operations into October of 2008. We must raise cash before October 2008 or we may not be able to continue operations. Our drug candidates are based on novel unproven technologies. Our product candidates are based on novel unproven technologies using proprietary carbohydrate compounds in combination with FDA approved drugs currently used in the treatment of cancer and other diseases. Carbohydrates are difficult to synthesize, and we may not be able to synthesize carbohydrates that would be usable as target delivery vehicles for the anti-cancer drugs we are working with or other therapeutics we plan to develop. Our drug candidates are in clinical trials and results are uncertain. We have one product candidate in human clinical trials. Pre-clinical results in animal studies are not necessarily predictive of outcomes in human clinical trials. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and may not be successful. They involve the testing of potential therapeutic agents, or effective treatments, in humans, typically in three phases, to determine the safety and efficacy of the product candidates necessary for an approved drug. Many products in human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics. Even if our products progress successfully through initial human testing, they may fail in later stages of development. We may engage others to conduct our clinical trials, including clinical research organizations and, possibly, government-sponsored agencies. These trials may not start or be completed as we forecast, or may be unsuccessful. Our product candidates may not be successfully commercialized. Even if our product candidates are successful in clinical trials, they may not be successfully commercialized. Potential products may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, be difficult to manufacture on a large scale, be uneconomical to produce, fail to achieve market acceptance, or be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. Our lack of operating experience may cause us difficulty in managing our growth. We have limited experience in manufacturing or procuring products in commercial quantities, conducting other later-stage phases of the regulatory approval process, selling pharmaceutical products, or negotiating, establishing and maintaining strategic relationships. Any growth of our company will require us to expand our management and our operational and financial systems and controls. If we are unable to do so, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. If rapid growth occurs, it may strain our operational, managerial and financial resources. We will depend on third parties to manufacture and market our products. We do not have, and do not now intend to develop, facilities for the manufacture of any of our products for clinical or commercial production. Accordingly, we will need to develop relationships with manufacturers and enter into collaborative 11 Table of Contents arrangements with licensees or have others manufacture our products on a contract basis. We expect to depend on such collaborators to supply us with products manufactured in compliance with standards imposed by the FDA and foreign regulators. In addition, we have limited experience in marketing, sales or distribution, and we do not intend to develop a sales and marketing infrastructure to commercialize our pharmaceutical products. If we develop commercial products, we will need to rely on licensees, collaborators, joint venture partners or independent distributors to market and sell those products. We depend on key individuals to develop our products and pursue collaborations. We are highly dependent on David Platt, Ph.D., Chief Executive Officer; Anatole Klyosov, Ph.D., Chief Scientist; and Eliezer Zomer, Ph.D., Executive Vice President, Manufacturing and Product Development, each of whom has scientific technical or other business expertise and experience that is critical to our success. The loss of any of these persons, or failure to attract or retain other key personnel, could prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products and core technologies. We are a counterclaim defendant in a lawsuit instituted by David Platt. In January 2004, David Platt, our Chief Executive Officer, filed a lawsuit in Massachusetts against GlycoGenesys, Inc. for claims including breach of contract. GlycoGenesys subsequently named us as a counterclaim defendant alleging tortious interference and misappropriation of proprietary rights, and seeks monetary damages and injunctive relief related to our intellectual property. We and Dr. Platt intend to contest these counterclaims vigorously. In October 2006, Marlborough Research and Development, Inc. (now known as Prospect Therapeutics, Inc.) purchased selected assets of GlycoGenesys including this litigation in a bankruptcy liquidation. If we do not prevail there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to the Drug Development Industry We will need regulatory approvals to commercialize our products. We are required to obtain approval from the FDA in order to sell our products in the U.S. and from foreign regulatory authorities in order to sell our products in other countries. The FDA’s review and approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Extensive pre-clinical and clinical data and supporting information must be submitted to the FDA for each indication for each product candidate in order to secure FDA approval. The FDA could reject an application or require us to conduct additional clinical or other studies as part of the regulatory review process. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain FDA approvals would prevent or delay the commercialization of our products, which would prevent, defer or decrease our receipt of revenues. If we receive initial regulatory approval, our product candidates will be subject to extensive and rigorous ongoing domestic and foreign government regulation. Our competitive position depends on protection of our intellectual property. Development and protection of our intellectual property are critical to our business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to practice our technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products or processes in the United States and other countries, protect trade secrets, and prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. Since patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy for at least portions of their pendency periods (published on U.S. patent issuance or, if earlier, 18 months from earliest filing date for most applications) and since other publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we are the first to make the inventions to be covered by our patent applications. The patent position of biopharmaceutical firms generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. 12 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that all of our patent applications will issue as patents or that the claims of any issued patents will afford meaningful protection for our technologies or products. In addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged and subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Patent litigation is widespread in the biotechnology industry and could harm our business. Litigation might be necessary to protect our patent position or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights, and we may not have the required resources to pursue such litigation or to protect our patent rights. Although we require our scientific and technical employees and consultants to enter into broad assignment of inventions agreements, and all of our employees, consultants and corporate partners with access to proprietary information to enter into confidentiality agreements, these agreements may not be honored. We are a counterclaim defendant in a lawsuit instituted by our chief executive officer. See “Risks Related to our Company” above. Products we develop could be subject to infringement claims asserted by others. We cannot assure that products based on our patents or intellectual property that we license from others will not be challenged by a third party claiming infringement of its proprietary rights. If we were not able to successfully defend our patents or licensed rights, we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement. We face intense competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We face direct competition from U.S. and foreign companies focusing on drug delivery technologies, which are rapidly evolving. Our competitors include major, multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions. Many of these competitors have greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs and more effective marketing and manufacturing organizations, than we do. In addition, academic and government institutions are increasingly likely to enter into exclusive licensing agreements with commercial enterprises, including our competitors, to market commercial products based on technology developed at such institutions. Our competitors may succeed in developing or licensing technologies and products that are more effective or less costly than ours, or succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for product candidates before we do. Health care cost containment initiatives and the growth of managed care may limit our returns. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will be affected by the ongoing efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain the cost of health care. These entities are challenging prices of health care products and services, denying or limiting coverage and reimbursement amounts for new therapeutic products, and for FDA-approved products considered experimental or investigational, or which are used for disease indications without FDA marketing approval. Even if we succeed in bringing any products to the market, they may not be considered cost-effective and third-party reimbursement might not be available or sufficient. If adequate third-party coverage is not available, we may not be able to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in research and product development. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us before or after any of our proposed products are approved for marketing. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate in all circumstances. If we commercialize our products, their use by patients could expose us to potential product liability and other claims resulting from alleged injury. This liability may result from claims made directly by consumers or by pharmaceutical companies or others selling such products. Although we currently have insurance coverage for both product liability and professional liability, we may be unable to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms. Any inability to maintain insurance coverage on acceptable terms could prevent or limit the commercialization of any products we develop. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Stock Stock prices for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are volatile. The market price for securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically has been highly volatile, and the market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Fluctuations in the trading price or liquidity of our common stock may adversely affect, among other things, the interest in our stock by purchasers on the open market and our ability to raise capital. We are not in compliance with the continuing listing requirements of the American Stock Exchange. In June 2007, we received a notice from the American Stock Exchange that it is reviewing our eligibility for continued listing of our common stock. In particular, the exchange noted that we are not in compliance with its minimum stockholders’ equity requirement in two of the last three years. In response to our plan to achieve and sustain compliance with the listing requirements, the exchange granted us an extension until October 13, 2008 to regain compliance with the standards. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by such date could result in our stock being de-listed from the exchange. If we are delisted, our ability to raise capital may be diminished. We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock. We are authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 40,364,792 shares were issued and outstanding on December 31, 2007. We issued and sold an additional 1,742,500 shares of preferred stock in a private placement that we completed on February 4, 2008 that may be converted at any time on a one-for-one basis into an aggregate of 1,742,500 shares of our common stock and an additional 7,500,000 shares of common stock in a registered direct offering that we closed on February 25, 2008. Our board of directors has authority, without action or vote of our stockholders in most cases, to issue all or a part of our authorized but unissued shares. Such stock issuances could be made at a price that reflects a discount from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise capital, we may need to issue securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for a significant amount of our common stock. These issuances would dilute your percentage ownership interest, which would have the effect of reducing your influence on matters on which our stockholders vote, and might dilute the book value of our common stock. You may incur additional dilution if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options, or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. As a “thinly-traded” stock, large sales can place downward pressure on our stock price. Our common stock, despite certain increases of trading volume from time to time, experiences periods when it could be considered “thinly traded.” Finance transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 