Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this annual report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference into this report, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results, and could cause our actual results to differ materially from our plans, projections, or other forward-looking statements included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below and elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could also materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. If we require additional financing to sustain our operations, and we are unable to obtain it on favorable terms, we may need to significantly curtail operations. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred a net loss from continuing operations of $875,144 and had cash provided by operations of $311,156. As of December 31, 2008, we had an excess of current liabilities compared to current assets of $3.3 million. Our current financing sources are our $6 million revolving credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. (as successor-by-merger to LaSalle Bank National Association) and a $3 million line of credit with Bruno Guazzoni, the uncle of our Chief Executive Officer and the owner of approximately 28.8% of our outstanding common stock. We also have outstanding promissory notes in an aggregate principal amount of $5.5 million issued to Bruno Guazzoni. With respect to the Bank of America facility, as of March 24, 2009, the outstanding loan balance was $4,618,780 with available borrowings of $815,102. The credit facility matures on December 21, 2009. Under the line of credit, which expires on March 15, 2010, the loan balance was $1,027,000 with available borrowings of $1,973,000 as of December 31, 2008. The outstanding promissory notes to Mr. Guazzoni have maturity dates in the first quarter of 2010. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our future capital uses and requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: • the extent to which our solutions and services gain market acceptance; • the level of revenues from present and future solutions and services; • the expansion of operations; • the costs and timing of product and service developments and sales and marketing activities; • costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; and • competitive developments. We may require additional or replacement financing to continue our operations, but such financing could be difficult to secure. The United States credit markets are currently experiencing an unprecedented contraction. Notwithstanding our existing financing sources and other potential sources of funds, as a result of the tightening credit markets, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms, or at all. If the financial institution that supports our credit facility fails, we may not be able to find a replacement lender. In addition, if the current pressures on credit continue or worsen, we may not be able to refinance our outstanding debt when it becomes due. Any of these events would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Current economic conditions and reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. The purchase of our services may be discretionary and may require our customers to make significant commitments of capital. During the current economic downturn, business spending on information technology has decreased. Continued weak economic conditions, or a reduction in information technology spending even if economic conditions improve, could adversely affect our financial 5 position, results of operations and cash flow, particularly through reduced contracts for service and lower prices for our services, difficulty in the collection of our accounts receivable and lower recoverability of assets. We may experience difficulties in scaling our operations to react to economic pressures in the U.S. In order to continue to increase sales and marketing efforts, to expand and enhance the solutions and services we are able to offer to current and future customers and to fund potential acquisitions, we will require additional capital that may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. As a consequence, we will be required to raise additional capital through public or private equity or debt financings, collaborative relationships, bank facilities or other arrangements with corporate partners or from other sources, all of which have contracted sharply in recent months. Any additional equity financing is expected to be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and increased interest costs. We have financed our operations to date primarily through private sales of equity securities, and loans from related parties and business associates. In addition, if unforeseen difficulties arise in the course of these capital-raising or other aspects of our business, we may be required to spend funds in an amount greater than anticipated. Such additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our inability to obtain sufficient funds may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our expansion programs or to limit the marketing of our services. Any such disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating future discretionary uses of cash. We also continue to explore other ways to maximize the value of the Company for its stockholders. The Company has not achieved profitability in each reporting period and may incur net losses in future quarters. The Company has a history of operating losses, including a loss from continuing operations of approximately $875,144 for the year ended December 31, 2008 and a loss from continuing operations of approximately $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. We may incur additional operating losses in the future. Operating expenses may increase as we seek to grow our business through acquisition and as our existing business expands. Even if we achieve consistent profitability, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or be able to raise capital in sufficient amounts to enable us to continue to expand our business. An inability to sustain profitability may also result in an impairment loss in the value of our long-lived assets, principally goodwill, property and equipment, and other tangible and intangible assets. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or raise capital in sufficient amounts, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Termination of a contract by a significant customer and/or cancellation with short notice, or failure by us to attract new customers and replace customers not renewing their contracts, could reduce our revenue and profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our largest customer accounted for approximately 7% of revenues. Non-renewal or termination of contracts with a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business. A large portion of our revenues were derived from professional services that are generally non-recurring in nature. There can be no assurance that we will obtain additional contracts for projects similar in scope to those previously obtained from our principal customers or any other customer, that we will be able to retain existing customers or attract new customers or that we will not remain largely dependent on a limited customer base, which may continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues. In addition, we may be subject to delays in customer funding; non-renewal; delay, termination, reduction or modification of contracts in the event of changes in customer policies or as a result of budgetary constraints; and increased or unexpected costs resulting in losses under fixed-fee contracts. Our success in meeting growth targets is dependent on our ability to maintain existing clients and to continually attract and retain new customers to replace customers who have not renewed their contracts. Achieving significant market acceptance requires substantial effort and expenditures on our part to create awareness of our services. 6 An unexpected shortfall in revenues in relation to our expenses, or significant bad debt experience, could materially and adversely affect our business. Revenues are difficult to forecast. We may increase our corporate overhead expenses as the number of acquisitions we complete increases and we build an infrastructure to implement our strategy, and will increase overhead to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Meanwhile, our business units may increase their operating expenses for sales, marketing and technical personnel to sell, provide and support their products and services. Additionally, at any given point in time, and especially in the current challenging economic climate, we may have significant accounts receivable balances with customers that expose us to credit risks. If we have an unexpected shortfall in revenues in relation to our expenses, or significant bad debt experience, our business could be materially and adversely affected. IT services are subject to uncertain demand due to emerging and evolving markets and technology. The markets for some of our services are changing rapidly and evolving and, therefore, the ultimate level of demand for our services is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Any significant decline in demand for programming and applications development and IT consulting services could materially adversely affect our business and prospects. Significant technological changes could render our existing products and services obsolete. To be successful, we must adapt to this rapidly changing market by continually improving the responsiveness, functionality and features of our products and services to meet customers’ needs. If we are unable to respond to technological advances and conform to emerging industry standards in a cost-effective and timely manner, our business could be materially and adversely affected. The IT services industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. Competition for our IT solutions is significant, and we expect that competition will continue to intensify due to the low barriers to entry. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, sales and marketing or support capabilities to successfully meet this competition. If we are unable to compete successfully against our competitors, our business will be adversely affected. We compete against numerous large companies that have substantially greater market presence, longer operating histories, more significant customer bases, and financial, technical, facilities, marketing, capital and other resources than we have. Our competitors include national, regional and local IT consulting service providers, software development firms and major accounting and consulting firms such as Accenture, Cap Gemini, Ernst & Young, IBM Global Services, Keane, KForce and MPS Group. In addition, we also encounter competition from numerous other businesses that provide one or more similar goods or services, including numerous resellers of Internet-related hardware and software and web-site development companies. Our competitors may respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may also devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. They may develop products and services that are superior to or have greater market acceptance than ours. Competitors may also engage in more extensive research and development, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to our existing and potential employees and strategic partners. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further impact our ability to effectively compete. New competitors, including large computer hardware, software, professional services and other technology and telecommunications companies, may enter our markets and rapidly acquire significant market share. As a result of increased competition and vertical and horizontal integration in the industry, we could encounter significant pricing pressures. These pricing pressures could result in significantly lower average selling prices for our products and services. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions with an increase in the number of customers, higher revenue from consulting services, cost reductions or otherwise. In addition, professional services businesses are likely to encounter consolidation in the near future, which could result in decreased pricing and other competition. 7 Moreover, there is a high degree of competition among companies seeking to acquire interests in IT service companies such as those we have historically targeted for acquisition. We are and will continue to be a minor participant in the business of seeking business relationships with, and acquisitions of interests in such companies. A large number of established and, in some cases, well-financed entities, including venture capital firms, are active in acquiring interests in companies that we may find desirable acquisition candidates. Many of these investment-oriented entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than we do. Consequently, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in negotiating and executing possible investments in these entities. Entrepreneur-founders of privately held IT service companies, including those suffering from the current economic crisis and/or facing potential bankruptcy restructuring or liquidation, generally place greater emphasis on gaining access to capital than obtaining the management skills and networking services that we can provide. Even if we are able to successfully compete with these other entities, this competition may affect the terms and conditions of potential acquisitions and, as a result, we may pay more than expected for targeted companies. If we cannot acquire interests in attractive companies on reasonable terms, our growth by acquisition strategy may not succeed. Operations interruptions caused by systems failures could adversely affect our business. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure. We currently maintain most of our computer systems in our facilities in New York, NY and at business unit offices in Needham, MA, Stoneham, MA, Mason, OH, Indianapolis, IN, Jacksonville, FL, Alpharetta, GA and North Palm Beach, FL. Interruptions could result from natural disasters, as well as power loss, telecommunications failure and similar events. We also lease telecommunications lines from local and regional carriers, whose service may be interrupted. Any damage or failure that interrupts or delays network operations could materially and adversely affect our business. Security breaches could expose our Company to a risk of loss or liability. Our infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, viruses or similar problems. If a person or entity circumvents our security measures, they could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored on our systems, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to make significant additional investments and efforts to protect against or remedy security breaches. Security breaches that result in access to confidential information could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or liability. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or successfully integrate their operations with our own. A key element of our expansion strategy is to grow through acquisitions. If we identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make investments or acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms. Acquisitions may cause a disruption of our ongoing business, distract management, require other resources and make it difficult to maintain our standards, controls and procedures. We may not be able to retain key employees of the acquired companies or maintain good relations with their customers or suppliers. We may be required to incur additional debt, if available, and we may be required to issue equity securities, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders, to fund acquisitions. Unsuccessful acquisitions could adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that any completed acquisition will enhance our business. Since the normal consideration in our acquisitions comprises both cash and shares of our common stock, if we proceed with one or more significant acquisitions, the potential impacts are (1) a substantial portion of our available cash could be used to consummate the acquisitions and/or we could incur or assume significant amounts of additional indebtedness, and (2) our stockholders could suffer significant dilution of their interest in our common stock. Also, acquisitions are required to be accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, which results in us recording significant amounts of goodwill. The inability of a subsidiary to sustain profitability may result in an impairment loss in the value of long-lived assets associated with that subsidiary, principally goodwill, property and equipment, and other tangible and intangible assets. 8 Our success depends on our retaining key personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the sectors in which we operate. The loss of existing personnel or the failure to recruit additional qualified managerial, technical, and sales personnel, as well as expenses in connection with hiring and retaining personnel, could adversely affect our business. We also depend on the performance of our executive officers and key employees, most of whom have not entered into employment agreements. As of December 31, 2008, we had 211 full-time employees. We will need to attract, train and retain more employees for management, engineering, programming, sales and marketing, and customer service and support positions. Competition for qualified employees, particularly engineers, programmers and consultants continues to be high. Consequently, we may not be successful in attracting, training and retaining the people we need to continue to offer solutions and services to present and future customers in a cost effective manner or at all. Fluctuation in quarterly operating results may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are within our control. Quarter to quarter comparisons of the results of operations as an indication of future performance should not be relied upon. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock may fall. Factors that could cause quarterly results to fluctuate include: • change in customer demand for, or the inability of our customers to pay for, our products and services; • timing of the expansion of operations; • changes in pricing by us or our competitors; • introduction of new products or services by competitors or Zanett; • costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; • continued or worsening recession or slow down in the U.S. economy; or • termination or non-renewal of customer contracts. Changes in government regulations may adversely impact our business. There are an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the Internet. These laws and regulations relate to liability for information received from or transmitted over the Internet, online content regulation, user privacy, taxation and quality of products and services. The government may also seek to regulate some segments of our activities as basic telecommunications services. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity, libel, employment, personal privacy and other issues is uncertain and developing. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that future regulation or regulatory changes may have on our business. We may be faced with potential claims for liability if we cannot adequately meet our customers’ expectations. Our services involve development, implementation and maintenance of computer systems and computer software that are critical to the operations of our customers’ businesses. Our failure or inability to meet a customer’s expectations in the performance of our services could harm our business reputation or result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure or inability. In addition, in the course of performing services, our personnel often gain access to technologies and content that includes confidential or proprietary customer information. Any such unauthorized disclosure or use could result in a claim for substantial damages. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that are uninsured, exceed available insurance coverage or result in changes to our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of a large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect us. 9 We may become subject to legal claims relating to the content in the web sites we may host or in email messages that we transmit. The law relating to the liability of online service providers, private network operators and Internet service providers for information carried on or disseminated through their networks is currently unsettled. We may become subject to legal claims relating to the content in the web sites we may host or in email messages that we transmit. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that material inappropriate for viewing by young children can be accessed from the web sites we may host. Claims could also involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy and copyright infringement. Providers of Internet products and services have been sued in the past, sometimes successfully, based on the content of material. If we have to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our business may be materially adversely affected. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of future sales by existing stockholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by existing stockholders of a large number of shares of common stock in the market or the perception that these sales may occur. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to issue equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that it reflects fair value. As of December 31, 2008, we had granted options to purchase 1,750,191 shares under our 2001 Stock Option Plan, as listed below. The total number of options authorized under the 2001 Stock Option Plan, as amended, is 2,500,000. If the holders of these options and any other options we have issued were to exercise their rights and sell the shares issued to them, it could have an adverse effect on the market price of the common stock. The market price for our common stock has been volatile. While NASDAQ has temporarily suspended its rules requiring a minimum closing bid price and a minimum market value of publicly held shares, if, in the future, we are unable to regain compliance with the NASDAQ listing standards, our common stock could be delisted. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of the securities of IT consulting companies have been especially volatile. We have not historically paid, and do not anticipate in the foreseeable future paying cash dividends on our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to retain future earnings for reinvestment in our business and/or to fund future acquisitions. Our credit facility with Bank of America prohibits us from declaring or paying any dividends, except for dividends or other distributions made by ZCS to us; provided, however, that we may accrue (but not pay) dividends as payment in kind. The concentrated ownership of our Company may discourage potential transactions involving Zanett. Claudio Guazzoni, our Chief Executive Officer owned approximately 25.3% of the outstanding Common Stock as of March 26, 2009, and in addition, Mr. Guazzoni’s uncle, Bruno Guazzoni, owns, as of March 26, 2009, approximately 28.8% of the outstanding Common Stock. As a result, the Guazzoni family possesses significant influence over Zanett’s decision making on business matters, including the election of directors. The concentration of Zanett share ownership may: • delay or prevent a change in the control of Zanett; • impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other transaction involving our Company; or • discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of Zanett. 10 Our rapid growth has strained, and may continue to strain, managerial and operational resources. Our rapid growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on managerial and operational resources. Further, as we grow, we will be required to manage multiple relationships with various customers, strategic partners and other third parties. Further growth or an increase in the number of strategic relationships may increase this strain on existing managerial and operational resources, inhibiting our ability to successfully implement our strategy without incurring additional corporate expenses. Our future growth is dependent on producing revenue sufficient to cover increasing expenses. Expenses will increase as we build an infrastructure to implement our strategy. We expect to hire additional employees and expand information technology systems. We also may increase our operating expenses to: • broaden our support capabilities for our clients; • explore acquisition opportunities and alliances with other companies; and • facilitate business arrangements among our business units. If the higher expenses are not accompanied by increased revenue, our earnings will be lower than anticipated or we may incur losses. 