Risk Factors Risks Relating to Economic Conditions and the Financial Markets The global credit and financial markets crisis could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Disruptions in global credit and financial markets may occur that cause diminished liquidity and limited availability of credit, reduced consumer confidence, reduced economic growth, increased unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. Limited availability of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending. This in turn may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. Financial difficulties experienced by our customers or suppliers as a result of these conditions could lead to production delays and delays or defaults in payment of accounts receivable. Continuing credit markets disruption restricts our access to capital and limits our ability to fund operations or to refinance maturing obligations as they become due through additional borrowing or other sources of financing. We are not able to predict the duration or extent of disruptions in global credit and financial markets that occurred in and since 2009 and through 2014. These conditions increase the difficulty of accurately forecasting and planning our business activities. If these conditions and uncertainties continue or if credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions further deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Industry Because we depend on the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is characterized by significant and sometimes prolonged downturns from time to time, our revenue and earnings may fluctuate significantly, which in turn could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Because our business is, and will continue to be, dependent on the requirements of semiconductor companies for independent testing and assembly services, any downturn in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry may reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our results of operations. All of our customers operate in this industry and variations in order levels from our customers and in service fee rates may result in volatility in our revenue and earnings. For instance, during periods of decreased demand for assembled semiconductors, some of our customers may even simplify, delay or forego final testing of certain types of semiconductors, such as dynamic random access memory or DRAM, further intensifying our difficulties. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant, and sometimes prolonged, downturns which have adversely affected our results of operations. In 2009, the semiconductor industry, especially the assembly and testing services for DRAM products sector, continued to experience the significant downturn that began in fourth quarter of 2008, and which has adversely affected our business. This industry downturn started to recover from the second quarter of 2009, and our revenue for 2010 increased 42% from 2009 levels. Our revenue for 2011 increased 6% from 2010 levels. Our revenue for 2012 increased 6% from 2011 levels. Our revenue for 2013 increased 0.7 % from 2012 levels. Our revenue for 2014 increased 13.7 % from 2013 levels and generated a profit of NT$1,663 million (US$53 million) in 2014. We cannot give any assurances that there will not be any downturn in the future or that any future downturn will not affect our results of operations. Any deterioration in the market for end-user applications for semiconductor products would reduce demand for our services and may result in a decrease in our earnings. Market conditions in the semiconductor industry track, to a large degree, those for their end-user applications. Any deterioration in the market conditions for the end-user applications of semiconductors we test and assemble could reduce demand for our services and, in turn, materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue is largely attributable to fees derived from testing and assembling semiconductors for use in personal computers, communications equipment, consumer electronic products and display applications. A significant decrease in demand for products in these markets could put pricing pressure on our testing and assembly services and negatively affect our revenue and earnings. Weak demand for LCD and other flat-panel display products began in 2007 and has since adversely affected our operating results in 2008, 2009, and 2010. The LCD driver market started to recover in the second quarter of 2009 and the positive recovery trend continued through 2014. We cannot give any assurances that there will not be any downturn in the future or that any future downturn will not affect our results of operations. Any significant decrease in demand for end-user applications of semiconductors will negatively affect our revenue and earnings. A decline in average selling prices for our services could result in a decrease in our earnings. Historically, prices for our testing and assembly services in relation to any given semiconductor tend to decline over the course of its product and technology life cycle. See also “—A decrease in market demand for LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductors may adversely affect our capacity utilization rates and thereby negatively affect our profitability”. If we cannot reduce the cost of our testing and assembly services, or introduce higher-margin testing and assembly services for new package types, to offset the decrease in average selling prices for our services, our earnings could decrease. 8 Table of Contents A reversal or slowdown in the outsourcing trend for semiconductor testing and assembly services could reduce our profitability. In recent years, integrated device manufacturers, or IDMs, have increasingly outsourced stages of the semiconductor production process, including testing and assembly, to independent companies like us to shorten production cycles. In addition, the availability of advanced independent semiconductor manufacturing services has also enabled the growth of so-called “fabless” semiconductor companies that focus exclusively on design and marketing and outsource their manufacturing, testing and assembly requirements to independent companies. A substantial portion of our revenue is indirectly generated from providing semiconductor assembly and testing services to these IDMs and fabless companies. We cannot assure you that these companies will continue to outsource their testing and assembly requirements to independent companies like us. A reversal of, or a slowdown in, this outsourcing trend could result in reduced demand for our services, which in turn could reduce our profitability. Risks Relating to Our Business If we are unable to compete effectively in the highly competitive semiconductor testing and assembly markets, we may lose customers and our income may decline. The semiconductor testing and assembly markets are very competitive. We face competition from a number of IDMs with in-house testing and assembly capabilities and other independent semiconductor testing and assembly companies. Our competitors may have access to more advanced technologies and greater financial and other resources than we do. Many of our competitors have shown a willingness to reduce prices quickly and sharply in the past to maintain capacity utilization in their facilities during periods of reduced demand. In addition, an increasing number of our competitors conduct their operations in lower cost centers in Asia such as Mainland China, Thailand, Vietnam and the Philippines. Any renewed or continued erosion in the prices or demand for our testing and assembly services as a result of increased competition could adversely affect our profits. We are highly dependent on the market for memory products. A downturn in market prices for these products could significantly reduce our revenue and profit. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from testing and assembling memory semiconductors. Our revenue derived from the testing and assembly of memory semiconductors accounted for 50% and 52% of our revenue in 2013 and 2014, respectively. In the past, our service fees for testing and assembling memory semiconductors were sharply reduced in tandem with the decrease in the average selling price of DRAM in the semiconductor industry. The continuing oversupply of DRAM products in 2008 and the weak demand in the DRAM market in the period from 2009 to 2013 resulted in significant reductions in the price of DRAM products, which in turn drove down the average prices for our testing and assembly services for DRAM products in these periods. We cannot assure you that there will not be further downturns in DRAM prices in the future. A decrease in market demand for LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductors may adversely affect our capacity utilization rates and thereby negatively affect our profitability. Our testing and assembly services for LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductors generated revenue of NT$4,781 million and NT$5,171 million (US$164 million) in 2013 and 2014, respectively. We invested NT$2,054 million and NT$1,056 million (US$33 million) in 2013 and 2014, respectively, on equipment for tape carrier package, or TCP, chip-on-film, or COF and chip-on-glass, or COG, technologies, which are used in testing and assembly services for LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductors. Most of this equipment may not be used for technologies other than TCP, COF or COG. The market demand for LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductors and related testing and assembly services increased in 2013 and 2014 compared to the market demand in 2012. Any significant decrease in demand for these products and our related services, however, would significantly impair our capacity utilization rates. That may result in our inability to generate sufficient revenue to cover the significant depreciation expenses for the equipment used in testing and assembling LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductors, thereby negatively affecting our profitability. See also “—Because of our high fixed costs, if we are unable to achieve relatively high capacity utilization rates, our earnings and profitability may be adversely affected”. Our significant amount of indebtedness and interest expense will limit our cash flow and could adversely affect our operations. We have a significant level of debt and interest expense. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately NT$4,560 million (US$144 million) and NT$3,276 million (US$104 million) outstanding long-term and short-term indebtedness, respectively. Our long-term indebtedness as of December 31, 2014, represented bank loans with an interest rate between 1.8947% and 3.16545%. As of December 31, 2014, NT$6,068 million (US$192 million) of our indebtedness was secured by collateral comprised of assets owned by ChipMOS TECHNOLOGIES INC., or ChipMOS Taiwan and ChipMOS TECHNOLOGIES (Shanghai) LTD., or ChipMOS Shanghai. 9 Table of Contents Our significant indebtedness poses risks to our business, including the risks that: • we may have to use a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • insufficient cash flow from operations may force us to sell assets, or seek additional capital, which we may be unable to do at all or on terms favorable to us; • our ability to sell assets or seek additional capital may be adversely affected by security interests in our assets granted to our lenders as collateral; • our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns; and • our debt service obligations increase our vulnerabilities to competitive pressures, because many of our competitors may be less leveraged than we are. For additional information on our indebtedness, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly and may cause the market price of our common shares to be volatile. Our results of operations have varied significantly from period to period and may continue to vary in the future. Among the more important factors affecting our quarterly and annual results of operations are the following: • our ability to accurately predict customer demand, as we must commit significant capital expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • our ability to quickly adjust to unanticipated declines or shortfalls in demand and market prices for our testing and assembly services, due to our high percentage of fixed costs; • changes in prices for our testing and assembly services; • volume of orders relative to our testing and assembly capacity; • capital expenditures and production uncertainties relating to the roll-out of new testing or assembly services; • our ability to obtain adequate testing and assembly equipment on a timely basis; • changes in costs and availability of raw materials, equipment and labor; • changes in our product mix; and • earthquakes, drought and other natural disasters, as well as industrial accidents. Because of the factors listed above, our future results of operations or growth rates may be below the expectations of research analysts and investors. If so, the market price of our common shares, and the market value of your investment, may fall. We depend on key customers for a substantial portion of our revenue and a loss of, or deterioration of the business from, or delayed payment by, any one of these customers could result in decreased revenue and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on a small group of customers for a substantial portion of our business. In 2014, our top five customers, collectively accounted for 60% of our revenue. As part of our strategy, we have been focusing on sales to key customers through long-term service agreements. We also focus on our business with smaller customers and customers who do not place orders on a regular basis. We expect that we will continue to depend on a relatively limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. Any adverse development in our key customers’ operations, competitive position or customer base could materially reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business and profitability. Since semiconductor companies generally rely on service providers with whom they have established relationships to meet their testing and assembly needs for their applications and new customers usually require us to pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process, if we lose any of our key customers, we may not be able to replace them in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that receivable collection difficulties experienced by us will not occur in the future. If any of our key customers reduces or cancels its orders or terminates existing contractual arrangements, and if we are unable to attract new customers and establish new contractual arrangements with existing or new customers, our revenue could be reduced and our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Because of our high fixed costs, if we are unable to achieve relatively high capacity utilization rates, our earnings and profitability may be adversely affected. Our operations are characterized by a high proportion of fixed costs. For memory and logic/mixed-signal semiconductor testing services, our fixed costs represented 57% and 47% of our total cost of revenue in 2013 and 2014, respectively. For memory and logic/mixed-signal semiconductor assembly services, our fixed costs represented 20% and 19% of our total cost of revenue in 2013 and 2014, respectively. For LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductor testing and assembly services, our fixed costs represented 45% and 46% of our total cost of revenue in 2013 and 2014, respectively. For bumping services, our fixed costs represented 19% and 19% of our total cost of revenue in 2013 and 2014, respectively. Our profitability depends in part not only on absolute pricing levels for our services, but also on the utilization rates for our testing and assembly equipment, commonly referred to as “capacity utilization rates”. Increases or decreases in our capacity utilization rates can significantly affect our gross margins as unit costs generally decrease as the fixed costs are allocated over a larger number of units. In the past, our capacity utilization rates have fluctuated significantly as a result of the fluctuations in the market demand for semiconductors. If we fail to increase or maintain our capacity utilization rates, our earnings and profitability may be adversely affected. In addition, we have entered into various long-term assembly and testing services agreements with certain of our customers that may require us to incur significant capital expenditures. If we are unable to achieve high capacity utilization rates for the equipment purchased pursuant to these agreements, our gross margins may be materially and adversely affected. The testing and assembly process is complex and our production yields and customer relationships may suffer as a result of defects or malfunctions in our testing and assembly equipment and the introduction of new packages. Semiconductor testing and assembly are complex processes that require significant technological and process expertise. Semiconductor testing involves sophisticated testing equipment and computer software. We develop computer software to test our customers’ semiconductors. We also develop conversion software programs that enable us to test semiconductors on different types of testers. Similar to most software programs, these software programs are complex and may contain programming errors or “bugs”. In addition, the testing process is subject to human error by our employees who operate our testing equipment and related software. Any significant defect in our testing or conversion software, malfunction in our testing equipment or human error could reduce our production yields and damage our customer relationships. The assembly process involves a number of steps, each of which must be completed with precision. Defective packages primarily result from: • contaminants in the manufacturing environment; • human error; • equipment malfunction; • defective raw materials; or • defective plating services. These and other factors have, from time to time, contributed to lower production yields. They may do so in the future, particularly as we expand our capacity or change our processing steps. In addition, to be competitive, we must continue to expand our offering of packages. Our production yields on new packages typically are significantly lower than our production yields on our more established packages. Our failure to maintain high standards or acceptable production yields, if significant and prolonged, could result in a loss of customers, increased costs of production, delays, substantial amounts of returned goods and related claims by customers. Further, to the extent our customers have set target production yields, we may be required to compensate our customers in a pre-agreed manner. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect our business reputation and result in reduced revenue and profitability. Because of the highly cyclical nature of our industry, our capital requirements are difficult to plan. If we cannot obtain additional capital when we need it, we may not be able to maintain or increase our current growth rate and our profits will suffer. As our industry is highly cyclical and rapidly changing, our capital requirements are difficult to plan. To remain competitive, we may need capital to fund the expansion of our facilities as well as to fund our equipment purchases and research and development activities. To meet our liquidity, capital spending and other capital needs, we have taken and plan to take certain measures to generate additional working capital and to save cash. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. We cannot assure you that these plans and measures will be implemented or will provide sufficient sources of capital. In addition, future capacity expansions or market or other developments may require additional funding. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. They include: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by semiconductor testing and assembly companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in Taiwan and elsewhere. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain funding in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, our growth prospects and potential future profitability will suffer. Disputes over intellectual property rights could be costly, deprive us of technologies necessary for us to stay competitive, render us unable to provide some of our services and reduce our opportunities to generate revenue. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies and to secure, on commercially acceptable terms, critical technologies that we do not own. We cannot assure you that we will be able to independently develop, or secure from any third party, the technologies required for our testing and assembly services. Our failure to successfully obtain these technologies may seriously harm our competitive position and render us unable to provide some of our services. Our ability to compete successfully also depends on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The semiconductor testing and assembly industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We may incur legal liabilities if we infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others. We are not able to ascertain what patent applications have been filed in the United States or elsewhere, however, until they are granted. If any third party succeeds in its intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers, we could be required to: • discontinue using the disputed process technologies, which would prevent us from offering some of our testing and assembly services; • pay substantial monetary damages; • develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible; or • acquire licenses to the infringed technologies, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any one of these developments could impose substantial financial and administrative burdens on us and hinder our business. We are, from time to time, involved in litigation in respect of intellectual property rights. Any litigation, whether as plaintiff or defendant, is costly and diverts our resources. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or if litigation, regardless of the outcome, relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, our costs could be substantially increased to impact our margins. Any such litigation could also prevent us from testing and assembling particular products or using particular technologies, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenue. For more information on litigation in respect of intellectual property rights, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings”. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and other necessary inputs from our suppliers in a timely and cost-effective manner, our production schedules would be delayed and we may lose customers and growth opportunities and become less profitable. Our operations require us to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials at acceptable prices in a timely and cost-effective manner. We source most of our raw materials, including critical materials like leadframes, organic substrates, epoxy, gold wire and molding compound for assembly, and tapes for TCP/COF, from a limited group of suppliers. We purchase all of our materials on a purchase order basis and have no long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. From time to time, suppliers have extended lead times, increased the price or limited the supply of required materials to us because of market shortages. Consequently, we may, from time to time, experience difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of raw materials on a timely basis. In addition, from time to time, we may reject materials that do not meet our specifications, resulting in declines in output or yield. Although we typically maintain at least two suppliers for each key raw material, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and other supplies of an acceptable quality in the future. It usually takes from three to six months to switch from one supplier to another, depending on the complexity of the raw material. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and other necessary inputs in a timely and cost-effective manner, we may need to delay our production and delivery schedules, which may result in the loss of business and growth opportunities and could reduce our profitability. If we are unable to obtain additional testing and assembly equipment or facilities in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to fulfill our customers’ orders and may become less competitive and less profitable. The semiconductor testing and assembly business is capital intensive and requires significant investment in expensive equipment manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. The market for semiconductor testing and assembly equipment is characterized, from time to time, by intense demand, limited supply and long delivery cycles. Our operations and expansion plans depend on our ability to obtain equipment from a limited number of suppliers in a timely and cost-effective manner. We have no binding supply agreements with any of our suppliers and we acquire our testing and assembly equipment on a purchase order basis, which exposes us to changing market conditions and other significant risks. Semiconductor testing and assembly also requires us to operate sizeable facilities. If we are unable to obtain equipment or facilities in a timely manner, we may be unable to fulfill our customers’ orders, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations as well as our growth prospects. Previously we have committed to acquire certain wafer sorting testers and probers under our long-term service agreement with Spansion LLC (“Spansion”). We terminated that agreement and commitment on February 19, 2009, after Spansion defaulted on its payment obligations. Currently, we do not have any long-term service agreements that require our commitment to acquire additional testing and assembly equipment or facilities, however we cannot assure you that such commitment will not be made in the future. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Customers”. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage the expansion of our operations and resources effectively, our growth prospects may be limited and our future profitability may be reduced. We expect to continue to expand our operations and increase the number of our employees. Rapid expansion puts a strain on our managerial, technical, financial, operational and other resources. As a result of our expansion, we will need to implement additional operational and financial controls and hire and train additional personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so effectively in the future, and our failure to do so could jeopardize our expansion plans and seriously harm our operations. Bermuda law may be less protective of shareholder rights than laws of the United States or other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum of association, our bye-laws and laws governing corporations incorporated in Bermuda. Shareholder suits such as class actions (as these terms are understood with respect to corporations incorporated in the United States) are generally not available in Bermuda. Therefore, our shareholders may be less able under Bermuda law than they would be under the laws of the United States or other jurisdictions to protect their interests in connection with actions by our management, members of our board of directors or our controlling shareholder. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against us in the United States. We are incorporated in Bermuda and a majority of our directors and most of our officers are not residents of the United States. A substantial portion of our assets is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for our shareholders to serve notice of a lawsuit on us or our directors and officers within the United States. Because most of our assets are located outside the United States, it may be difficult for our shareholders to enforce in the United States judgments of United States courts. Appleby, our Bermuda counsel, has advised us that there is some uncertainty as to the enforcement in Bermuda, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of liabilities predicated upon United States federal securities laws, although final and conclusive judgments in the courts of the United States against our company under which a sum of money is payable (not being a sum of money payable in respect of taxes or other charges of a like nature, in respect of a fine or other penalty, or in respect of multiple damages as defined in The Protection of Trading Interests Act 1981 of Bermuda) would be enforced by the Supreme Court of Bermuda as a debt against our company, subject to certain conditions and exceptions. Investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted if we or our independent public registered accounting firm is unable to conclude that our internal control over our financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (“SEC’s”) reporting obligations, and beginning in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2006, we have been required by the SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 20-F that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Beginning in fiscal year 2007, our independent public registered accounting firm has audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although our management concluded that our internal controls are effective in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, and our independent public registered accounting firm has rendered its opinion that we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria set forth in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission (COSO), our management may not conclude that our internal controls are effective in the future. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over our financial reporting are effective our independent public registered accounting firm may disagree. If our independent public registered accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal controls over our financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent public registered accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, it may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue an adverse opinion in the future. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market prices of our common shares. 13 Table of Contents Any environmental claims or failure to comply with any present or future environmental regulations, or any new environmental regulations, may require us to spend additional funds, may impose significant liability on us for present, past or future actions, and may dramatically increase the cost of providing our services to our customers. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of chemical by-products of, and water used in, our assembly and gold bumping processes. Although we have not suffered material environmental claims in the past, a failure or a claim that we have failed to comply with any present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production or a cessation of our operations or negative publicity. New regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. Any failure on our part to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that may materially reduce our earnings. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign exchange losses. Currently, most of our revenue is denominated in NT dollars. Our cost of revenue and operating expenses, on the other hand, are incurred in several currencies, including NT dollars, Japanese yen, US dollars and Renminbi, or RMB. In addition, a substantial portion of our capital expenditures, primarily for the purchase of testing and assembly equipment, has been, and is expected to continue to be, denominated in Japanese yen with much of the remainder in US dollars. We also have debt denominated in NT dollars, Japanese yen, US dollars and RMB. Fluctuations in exchange rates, primarily among the US dollar, the NT dollar and the Japanese yen, will affect our costs and operating margins in NT dollar terms. In addition, these fluctuations could result in exchange losses and increased costs in NT dollar terms. Despite selective hedging and other techniques implemented by us, fluctuations in exchange rates have affected, and may continue to affect, our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in our acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and dispositions, and may therefore be unable to implement fully our business strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we may make acquisitions and investments in companies and businesses, establish joint ventures or make dispositions of our interests. For example, in February 2010, we agreed to sell 15.8% of ChipMOS Taiwan’s outstanding shares to Siliconware Precision Industries Co., Ltd. (“Siliconware Precision”) and the transaction was completed in January 2011. In April 2013, as part of ChipMOS Taiwan’s listing plan on the Taiwan Stock Exchange (“TWSE”), we completed the sale of 6.5 million or 0.8% of the total number of ChipMOS Taiwan’s outstanding shares to ChipMOS Taiwan’s underwriters and to certain others, including non-US employees of ChipMOS Taiwan. From September to October 2013, we sold 180 million or 21.4% of the total number of ChipMOS Taiwan’s outstanding shares to investors. After the completion of the aforesaid sales, the Company held approximately 523 million ChipMOS Taiwan shares, representing 62.1% of the total number of ChipMOS Taiwan’s outstanding shares. On April 9, 2014, ChipMOS Bermuda further sold 1.3 million ChipMOS Taiwan shares as “green shoe” option to market investors. ChipMOS Taiwan became listed and commenced trading on the main board of TWSE on April 11, 2014. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, we continue to own approximately 522 million or 60.4% of ChipMOS Taiwan’s outstanding shares without any “green shoe” option outstanding. See “—Risk Relating to Our Corporate Structure—ChipMOS Taiwan’s ability to maintain its listing and trading status on the Taiwan Stock Exchange is dependent on factors outside of the Company or ChipMOS Taiwan’s control and satisfaction of stock exchange requirements. ChipMOS Taiwan may not be able to overcome such factors that disrupt its trading status on the main board of Taiwan Stock Exchange or satisfy other eligibility requirements that may be required of it in the future”. In November 2012, pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form F-3 declared effective on September 5, 2012, ThaiLin Semiconductor Corp. (“ThaiLin”) sold 2,000,000 of our common shares under a secondary offering (the “Secondary Offering”). In May 2013, ThaiLin completed its sale of 380,506 of our common shares to Tokyo Seimitsu Co., Ltd. (“Tokyo Seimitsu”). In November 2013 and January 2014, ThaiLin sold 2,000,000 and 2,093,705 of our commons shares back to ChipMOS Bermuda, respectively. In September 2014, Siliconware Precision sold 1,000,000 of our common shares back to ChipMOS Bermuda under the share purchase agreement entered in August 2014. The success of our acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and dispositions depends on a number of factors, including: • our ability to identify suitable investment, acquisition, joint venture or disposition opportunities; • our ability to reach an agreement for an acquisition, investment, joint venture or disposition opportunity on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all; • the extent to which we are able to exercise control over the acquired or joint venture company; • our ability to align the economic, business or other strategic objectives and goals of the acquired company with those of our company; and • our ability to successfully integrate the acquired or joint venture company or business with our company. 14 Table of Contents If we are unsuccessful in our acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and dispositions, we may not be able to implement fully our business strategy to maintain or grow our business. We depend on key personnel, and our revenue could decrease and our costs could increase if we lose their services. We depend on the continued service of our executive officers and skilled engineering, technical and other personnel. We will also be required to hire a substantially greater number of skilled employees in connection with our expansion plans. In particular, we depend on a number of skilled employees in connection with our LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductor testing and assembly services, and the competition for such employees in Taiwan and Mainland China is intense. We may not be able to either retain our present personnel or attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed. Moreover, we do not carry key person insurance for any of our executive officers nor do we have employment contracts with any of our executive officers or employees, and, as a result, none of our executive officers or employees is bound by any non-competition agreement. If we lose any of our key personnel, it could be very difficult to find and integrate replacement personnel, which could affect our ability to provide our services, resulting in reduced revenue and earnings. In addition, we may need to increase employee compensation levels in order to retain our existing officers and employees and to attract additional personnel. As of March 31, 2015, 17.5% of the workforce at our facilities are foreign workers employed by us under work permits that are subject to government regulations on renewal and other terms. Consequently, if the regulations in Taiwan relating to the employment of foreign workers were to become significantly more restrictive or if we are otherwise unable to attract or retain these workers at reasonable cost, we may be unable to maintain or increase our level of services and may suffer reduced revenue and earnings. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our information technology systems, we may lose proprietary data. Our security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including computer hackers, employees error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in unauthorized access to our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach could result in disclosure of our trade secrets, confidential customer, supplier or employee data, which could result in legal liability, harm to our reputation and otherwise harm our business. Risk Relating to Our Relationship with Mosel ChipMOS Taiwan entered into certain transactions that, if determined to have constituted impermissible financings or purchases of assets or equity of Mosel under ROC law, could result in the resignations of members of our management. As a result, our business operations could be disrupted and the market price of our common shares could decline. ROC law limits the ability of a company incorporated in Taiwan to purchase any equity interest in companies, directly or indirectly, holding more than 50% of its issued and outstanding voting securities or registered capital or to provide loans or other financing to any company. ChipMOS Taiwan purchased NT$242 million worth of Mosel Vitelic Inc. (“Mosel”) shares in 2002. Lee and Li, our ROC special counsel, has advised us that these purchases do not violate relevant ROC law that prohibits a subsidiary from buying or taking collateral in shares of companies holding, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of its issued and outstanding voting securities or registered capital, because Mosel’s indirect interest (calculated as the product of (i) Mosel’s percentage interest in ChipMOS Bermuda and (ii) ChipMOS Bermuda’s percentage interest in ChipMOS Taiwan) in ChipMOS Taiwan was less than 50% and ChipMOS Bermuda is incorporated outside of Taiwan. In 2005, ChipMOS Taiwan disposed of NT$84 million of Mosel shares, and in August 2006, ChipMOS Taiwan further disposed of the remaining Mosel shares for approximately NT$30 million. ChipMOS Taiwan no longer owns any Mosel shares. Lee and Li has advised that under relevant ROC law, there is no similar restriction or limitation on a subsidiary’s disposal of its parent’s equity shares, if the previous acquisitions of such shares complied with relevant ROC law. However, we understand that there is no applicable judicial precedent and there is some doubt as to how a court would rule if presented with the situation. If it were to be determined that any of the transactions described above constituted an impermissible financing or purchase of assets of Mosel by ChipMOS Taiwan or an impermissible purchase of Mosel’s equity by ChipMOS Taiwan, then ChipMOS Taiwan’s then chairman and any responsible officers would be jointly and severally liable to ChipMOS Taiwan for any losses suffered by ChipMOS Taiwan and may also be severally liable criminally for any breach of fiduciary duties that resulted in losses and damages suffered by ChipMOS Taiwan. Moreover, certain of these transactions may not have been in full compliance with ChipMOS Taiwan’s then applicable internal procedures due to the failure to have received an appropriate valuation opinion prior to entering into such purchases. The failure to comply fully with ChipMOS Taiwan’s then applicable internal procedures could constitute evidence of a failure by the then chairman of ChipMOS Taiwan and responsible officers to comply fully with their fiduciary duties, which could result in them being held criminally liable for any breach of fiduciary duties that resulted in losses and damages to ChipMOS Taiwan. If members of our current management were held to have breached their fiduciary duties or become criminally liable for the transactions described above, they may become obliged, whether under law or otherwise, to resign from their respective positions at ChipMOS Bermuda and our affiliates. Any loss of the services of these persons could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, and cause the market price of our common shares to decline. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Countries in Which We Conduct Operations ROC laws and regulations limit or prohibit certain technology cooperation between ROC persons or entities with PRC persons or entities, and our current technology transfer arrangements between ChipMOS Bermuda and ChipMOS Shanghai may be found to be in violation of any such limitation or prohibition, which may result in a fine of between NT$50 thousand and NT$25 million and the termination of such technology transfer arrangements and therefore have a material adverse effect on the operations of ChipMOS Shanghai and our financial condition and results of operations. ROC laws and regulations previously prohibited any transfer of semiconductor testing and assembly technologies to any person or entity located in Mainland China, except for transfers involving certain low-end semiconductor testing and assembly technologies, such as conventional wire bond assembly technology, if certain requirements are met. The ROC Ministry of Economic Affairs has the ultimate administrative authority in interpreting such laws and regulations. In February 2010, these restrictions have been relaxed, so that ROC entities may transfer semiconductor testing and assembly technologies to any person or entity located in Mainland China after they have obtained approval from the Investment Commission of the ROC Ministry of Economic Affairs, or the ICM. Under a technology transfer agreement, dated August 1, 2002, ChipMOS Bermuda licensed to ChipMOS Shanghai certain testing and assembly-related technologies that were then controlled by ChipMOS Bermuda, which included technologies that were licensed to ChipMOS Bermuda by ChipMOS Taiwan. ChipMOS Bermuda will continue to license such technologies to ChipMOS Shanghai pursuant to a technology transfer agreement dated October 3, 2011 with effective date on August 1, 2012. ChipMOS Bermuda also provided ChipMOS Shanghai with technical support and consulting services under this agreement. On April 7, 2004, ChipMOS Bermuda entered into an assignment agreement with ChipMOS Taiwan, pursuant to which ChipMOS Taiwan transferred all of the technologies it owned as of that date to ChipMOS Bermuda, including those previously licensed to ChipMOS Bermuda. On April 12, 2007, ChipMOS Bermuda entered into an assignment agreement with ChipMOS Taiwan, pursuant to which ChipMOS Taiwan assigned and transferred fifty percent of the title to ownership of and interest in all of the technologies and intellectual property it owned as of that date to ChipMOS Bermuda. In the opinion of Lee and Li, our ROC special counsel, our technology transfer arrangements as described above are in compliance with all applicable ROC laws and regulations. However, substantial uncertainties remain regarding the interpretation and application of those laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that ROC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to the opinion of our ROC special counsel. If ChipMOS Taiwan were determined to be in violation of applicable ROC laws and regulations governing technology cooperation with PRC persons and entities, ChipMOS Taiwan may be subject to a fine of between NT$50 thousand and NT$25 million and may be ordered by the ICM to terminate or rectify such activity within a specified period of time. Any termination of our current technology transfer to ChipMOS Shanghai could materially adversely affect our Mainland China operations and our financial condition, results of operations or prospects, as well as the market price of our common shares. Our ability to direct the operations we conduct through our subsidiaries and affiliated companies that we do not fully own may be limited by legal duties owed to other shareholders of such companies. Certain of our operations are conducted through companies that we do not fully own. For example, certain current consolidated operations are conducted through ChipMOS Taiwan, our 60.4% subsidiary as of March 31, 2015, ThaiLin, ChipMOS Taiwan’s 47.5% owned subsidiary as of March 31, 2015, and ChipMOS Shanghai, ThaiLin’s indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary as of March 31, 2015. On November 12, 2014, ChipMOS Taiwan made announcement for the contemplated merger with ThaiLin. Upon the closing of the merger, ThaiLin will be merged with ChipMOS Taiwan. As a result of the merger, ChipMOS Taiwan will become our 58.0% owned subsidiary and ChipMOS Shanghai will become ChipMOS Taiwan’s indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary through MODERN MIND TECHNOLOGY LIMITED, (“Modern Mind”). For more information, please see “—Pending Merger with ThaiLin may or may not complete or achieve the expected synergy, efficiency and effectiveness”. We also conduct other activities through our affiliated entities. See also “—Risk Relating to Our Corporate Structure—ChipMOS Taiwan’s ability to maintain its listing and trading status on the Taiwan Stock Exchange is dependent on factors outside of the Company or ChipMOS Taiwan’s control and satisfaction of stock exchange requirements. ChipMOS Taiwan may not be able to overcome such factors that disrupt its trading status on the main board of Taiwan Stock Exchange or satisfy other eligibility requirements that may be required of it in the future” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions”. In accordance with the various laws of the relevant jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries and affiliates are organized, each of our subsidiaries and affiliates and their respective directors owe various duties to their respective shareholders. As a result, the actions we wish our subsidiaries or affiliates to take could be in conflict with their or their directors’ legal duties owed to their other shareholders. When those conflicts arise, our ability to cause our subsidiaries or affiliates to take the action that we desire may be limited. 16 Table of Contents Any future outbreak of health epidemics and outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian influenza, swine flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or Ebola virus disease, may materially affect our operations and business. Influenza viruses circulating in animals pose threats to human health. Humans can become ill when infected with viruses from animal sources, such as avian influenza virus subtypes H5N1, H9N2 and H7N9 and swine influenza virus subtypes H1N1 and H3N2. An outbreak of a contagious disease such as New Influenza A or more commonly known as the “bird flu” and “swine flu”, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), or avian influenza with virus subtype H7N9, for which there is inadequate treatment or no known cure or vaccine, may potentially result in a quarantine of infected employees and related persons, and adversely affect our operations at one or more of our facilities or the operations of our customers or suppliers. We cannot predict the impact that any further future outbreak of the aforementioned influenza viruses or other diseases could have on our business and results of operations. Also, according to World Health Organization, the current outbreak of in West Africa is the largest and most complex Ebola virus disease (EVD) outbreak since the Ebola virus was first discovered in 1976. There have been more cases and deaths in this outbreak than all others combined. It has also spread between countries starting in Guinea then spreading across land borders to Sierra Leone and Liberia, by air to Nigeria, and by land to Senegal. People remain infectious as long as their blood and body fluids, including semen and breast milk, contain the virus. Men who have recovered from the disease can still transmit the virus through their semen for up to 7 weeks after recovery from illness. There is as yet no proven treatment available for EVD. As such, we cannot predict the impact that any future outbreak of EVD could have on our business and results of operations. We face substantial political risk associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to recent domestic political events and the strained relations between the Republic of China and the People’s Republic of China, that could negatively affect our business and the market price of our common shares. Our principal executive offices and most of our testing and assembly facilities are located in Taiwan. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common shares may be affected by changes in ROC governmental policies, as well as social instability and diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Taiwan which are beyond our control. For example, the ROC has a unique international political status. The PRC government regards Taiwan as a renegade province and does not recognize the legitimacy of the ROC as an independent country. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been positively strengthened in recent years between the ROC and the PRC, relations have often been strained. In March 2005, the PRC government enacted the “Anti-Secession Law” codifying its policy of retaining the right to use military force to gain control over Taiwan, particularly under what it considers as highly provocative circumstances, such as a declaration of independence by Taiwan or the refusal by the ROC to accept the PRC’s stated “One China” policy. On March 18, 2014, students and certain civic groups initiated the Sunflower Student Movement as a protest movement in the Legislative Yuan and, later, also the Executive Yuan of the Republic of China (Taiwan). The activists protested the passing of the Cross-Strait Service Trade Agreement (“CSSTA”) proposed by the ruling party Kuomintang (“KMT”) at the legislature without a clause-by-clause review. The protesters perceive the passage of CSSTA failed to meet the required formal procedures and that the ratification of CSSTA with PRC would hurt Taiwan’s economy and leave it vulnerable, among others, to political pressure from Beijing, while the supporters view the trade pact would allow the two sides to conduct business operations more freely in each other’s services market. The Sunflower Student Movement marks the first time that legislature has been occupied by citizens in the history of Taiwan. On April 10, 2014, the 24-days occupation of the Legislative Yuan has concluded. The CSSTA has been put on hold ever since the Sunflower Student Movement. Past developments related to the interaction between the ROC and the PRC have on occasion depressed the market prices of the securities of Taiwanese or Taiwan-related companies, including our own. We cannot assure you any contentious situations between Taiwan and China will resolve in maintaining the current status quo or remain peaceful. Relations between the ROC and the PRC and other factors affecting military, political or economic stability in Taiwan could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price and the liquidity of our common shares. The business and operations of our business associates and our own business operations are vulnerable to disruptions that may be caused by natural disasters and other events. We currently provide most of our testing services through our facilities in the Hsinchu Industrial Park and the Hsinchu Science Park in Taiwan and the Shanghai Qingpu Industrial Zone, and all of our assembly services through our facilities in the Southern Taiwan Science Park and the Shanghai Qingpu Industrial Zone. Significant damage or other impediments to these facilities as a result of natural disasters, industrial strikes or industrial accidents could significantly increase our operating costs. 17 Table of Contents Certain regions we operate in are particularly susceptible to earthquakes and associated natural disasters. For example, in late 1999, Taiwan suffered severe earthquakes which caused significant property damages and loss of life, particularly in the central part of Taiwan. The earthquakes damaged production facilities and adversely affected the operations of many companies involved in the semiconductor and other industries. We experienced an aggregate of NT$8 million in damages to our machinery and equipment, facilities, inventory and five days of delay in production schedule as a result of the event. In March 2011, Sendai of Japan registered an earthquake of 9.0 Mw (moment magnitude scale) off the coast of Japan (the “Sendai Earthquake”). The Sendai Earthquake was recorded as most powerful earthquake to hit Japan and the fourth most powerful earthquake in the world. The earthquake triggered tsunami warnings and evacuations along Japan’s Pacific coast and in at least 20 countries, including Taiwan and Mainland China. In April 2013, an earthquake registering a magnitude of approximately 6.6-7.0 Mw with epicenter located in Lushan County, Ya’an, Sichuan (the “Lushan Earthquake”). ReliefWeb, part of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) released information on July 23, 2013 confirming 196 deaths and up to 2 persons missing and 14,785 injured victim reports. In January and February 2008, certain parts of Mainland China, particularly in the southern, central and eastern regions, experienced reportedly the most severe winter in the country in recent decades, which resulted in significant and extensive damages to factories, power lines, homes, automobiles, crops and other properties, blackouts, transportation and communications disruptions and other losses in the affected areas. In addition, in May 2008, certain semiconductor companies with facilities in eastern Mainland China experienced production disruption reportedly due to power outages caused by the failure of certain electricity supply system in the area where the plants are located. We cannot assure you that our facilities in the Shanghai Qingpu Industrial Zone will not be adversely affected by future snowstorms, power outages, earthquakes or other similar events. Natural disasters and other events like aforementioned events cause severe property damages to townships, infrastructures and death and injuries to Civilians. In Sendai Earthquake, many electrical generators were disabled, and at least three nuclear power plant reactors partially melted down and experienced a chemical explosion extensively damaging surrounding buildings. We cannot assure you that our production facilities, operations and market located in Taiwan and Mainland China will not be adversely affected as result of the events that take place overseas like the Sendai Earthquake, including radiation emission from the damaged nuclear power plants or subsequent future earthquakes that may take place. The production facilities of many of our suppliers, customers and providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services, including foundries, are located in Taiwan and Mainland China. If our customers are adversely affected by natural disasters or other events occurring in or affecting these geographic areas, it could result in a decline in the demand for our testing and assembly services. If our suppliers and providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services are affected by such events, our production schedule could be halted or delayed. As a result, a major earthquake, snowstorm, other natural disaster, industrial strike, industrial accident or other disruptive event occurring in or affecting Taiwan or Mainland China could severely disrupt our normal operation of business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any future outbreak of radiation-related disease as a result of nuclear power plant reactors damage caused by the Sendai Earthquake may materially adversely affect our operations and business. The Sendai Earthquake raises tremendous concerns about the possible effects of radiation emission from the damaged nuclear power plants. Japanese official authorities are working with experts in assessing the risk and determining the best courses of actions to implement to escape harmful radiation. The potential health effects due to exposure to harmful radiation may be temporary or permanent harmful effects in nature. Multiple radioactive gases could possibly be emitted in a situation where uranium attains a “meltdown” state, which is a severe overheating of the core of a nuclear reactor, in which the core melts and radiation and heat are caused to escape. This would occur if the containment system partially or fully fails. The particles that are released with the gases due to the meltdown would be the spewed particles of iodine-131, strontium-90 and cesium-137. These might enter into a human by being swallowed, absorbed through the skin, or inhaled. Depending on the chemical characteristics of each of these and their predilection for certain body tissues, they could cause cancers of such organs as bones, soft tissues near bones, thyroid gland, and the bone marrow (typically known as leukemia). Acute or very high level radiation exposure can cause a person to become very ill or to die quickly. Ionizing radiation, which is defined as high-energy particles or electromagnetic waves that can break chemical bonds, damage humans by disrupting cellular function, particularly in tissues with rapid growth and turnover of cells. Intense, high level and/or excessive radiation exposure may result in acute radiation syndrome whereby harmful effects to the human body may be evidenced by skin burns, internal organ deterioration, bleeding, vomiting, bone marrow distortion and deaths. If the radiation exposure is less intense and/or more prolonged at a lower level, then the central nervous system, kidneys, thyroid gland, and liver may be affected. Cancer is the most well-known effect, and may affect virtually any significantly exposed tissue. 18 Table of Contents Certain health effects due to exposure to harmful radiation does not have adequate treatment or known cure or vaccine, consequently, may potentially result in a quarantine of infected employees and related persons, and adversely affect our operations at one or more of our facilities or the operations of our customers or suppliers. We cannot predict the probability of any future outbreak of radiation related diseases as a possible result of nuclear power plants damage caused by the Sendai Earthquake or the extent of the material adverse impact that this could have on our business and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure Our ability to receive dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries may be restricted by commercial, statutory and legal restrictions, and thereby materially adversely affect our ability to grow, fund investments, make acquisitions, pay dividends, repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness and otherwise fund and conduct our business. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us is restricted by, among other things, the availability of funds and the terms of various credit arrangements entered into by our subsidiaries, as well as statutory and other legal restrictions. In addition, although there are currently no foreign exchange control regulations which restrict the ability of our subsidiaries located in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us, we cannot assure you that the relevant regulations will not be changed and that the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us will not be restricted in the future. A Taiwan company is generally not permitted to distribute dividends or to make any other distributions to shareholders for any year in which it did not have either earnings or retained earnings (excluding reserves). In addition, before distributing a dividend to shareholders following the end of a fiscal year, the company must recover any past losses, pay all outstanding taxes and set aside 10% of its annual profit (less prior years’ losses and outstanding taxes) as a legal reserve until the accumulated legal reserve equals its paid-in capital, and may set aside a special reserve. In addition, PRC law requires that our PRC-incorporated subsidiary only distributes dividends out of its profit, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, it is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit each year into its reserve fund until the accumulated legal reserve amounts to 50% of its registered capital. PRC-incorporated companies are further required to maintain a bonus and welfare fund at percentages determined at their sole discretion. The reserve fund and the bonus and welfare fund are not distributable as dividends. Moreover, a ROC-incorporated company is only able to declare dividends at its annual general meeting of shareholders, which cannot occur until after completion of its annual financial statements. Any limitation on dividend payments by our subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our ability to grow, fund investments, make acquisitions, pay dividends, repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Baupost Group LLC/MA, our largest shareholder may have significant influence over our company and may cause us to take actions that may not be, or refrain from taking actions that may be, in our best interest or the best interest of our other shareholders. As of March 31, 2015, Baupost Group LLC/MA owned 11.5% of our common shares, according to the 13F filed by Baupost Group LLC/MA on February 13, 2015. This shareholder, through its equity interests, may have significant influence over matters submitted to our shareholders for approval and other corporate actions, such as: • election of directors; • timing and manner of dividend distributions; • approval of contracts between us and the largest shareholder or its respective affiliates, which could involve conflicts of interest; • open market purchase programs or other purchases of our common shares; • delay, defer or prevent a change in who controls us; • discourage bids for our shares at a premium over the market price; and • adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Moreover, because large shareholders have potential power to direct or influence our corporate actions, we may be required to engage in transactions that may not be agreeable to our other shareholders or that may not be in the best interest of our other shareholders. 19 Table of Contents Our ability to make further investments in ChipMOS Taiwan may be dependent on relevant stock exchanges requirements or other regulatory approval requirements. If ChipMOS Taiwan is unable to receive the equity financing it requires, its ability to grow and fund its operations, and as a result our ability to grow and conduct our business, may be materially adversely affected. Even though trading on the Emerging Stock Board of Gre Tai Securities Market of ChipMOS Taiwan’s shares under stock code “8150” commenced on April 19, 2013, ChipMOS Taiwan will continue to depend on its shareholders, ChipMOS Bermuda and Siliconware Precision, to meet its equity financing requirements prior to consummation of its plan of listing on the TWSE. On January 28, 2014, the Review Committee of the TWSE approved the listing application of ChipMOS Taiwan to be listed on the TWSE. ChipMOS Taiwan subsequently became listed and commenced trading on the main board of TWSE on April 11, 2014. See “—ChipMOS Taiwan’s ability to maintain its listing and trading status on the Taiwan Stock Exchange is dependent on factors outside of the Company or ChipMOS Taiwan’s control and satisfaction of stock exchange requirements. ChipMOS Taiwan may not be able to overcome such factors that disrupt its trading status on the main board of Taiwan Stock Exchange or satisfy other eligibility requirements that may be required of it in the future.” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions”. Any capital contribution by us to ChipMOS Taiwan may require the approval of the relevant stock exchange or other ROC authorities. For example, any capital contribution by us to ChipMOS Taiwan will require the approval of the authorities of the Science Park Administration. We may not be able to obtain any such approval in the future in a timely manner, or at all. If ChipMOS Taiwan is unable to receive the equity financing it requires, its ability to grow and fund its operations, and as a result ChipMOS Bermuda’s ability to grow and conduct our business, may be materially adversely affected. ChipMOS Taiwan’s ability to maintain its listing and trading status on the Taiwan Stock Exchange is dependent on factors outside of the Company or ChipMOS Taiwan’s control and satisfaction of stock exchange requirements. ChipMOS Taiwan may not be able to overcome such factors that disrupt its trading status on the main board of Taiwan Stock Exchange or satisfy other eligibility requirements that may be required of it in the future. ChipMOS Taiwan became listed and commenced trading on the main board of TWSE on April 11, 2014. For a TWSE-listed company to continue trading on the main board of TWSE depends in part on market conditions and other factors that may not within the control of the Company or ChipMOS Taiwan. For these reasons there can be no assurance that ChipMOS Taiwan’s shares will continue to be listed or traded on the TWSE. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares Volatility in the price of our common shares may result in shareholder litigation that could in turn result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. The financial markets in the United States and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and market prices of technology companies have been and continue to be extremely volatile. Volatility in the price of our common shares may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our results of operations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, shareholders have frequently instituted securities class action litigation against that company. Litigation of this kind could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Certain provisions in our constitutive documents and in our severance agreements with our executive officers make the acquisition of us by another company more difficult and costly and therefore may delay, defer or prevent a change of control. Our bye-laws provide that our board of directors is divided into three classes of directors, each class to be re-elected only once every three years. As a result, shareholders would not generally be able to replace a majority of the directors until after two annual general meetings. In addition, any extraordinary corporate transaction such as a merger, amalgamation or consolidation, or a sale or transfer of all or substantially all of our assets cannot be done without the approval of shareholders representing 70% of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to vote at such general meeting called to consider such extraordinary transaction. These provisions in our constitutive documents may increase the difficulty faced by a party which seeks to acquire control of our board or to approve an extraordinary transaction. In 2007, we entered into change in control severance agreements with certain executive officers pursuant to which we agreed to pay certain severance payments if a change in control event (as defined in the change in control severance agreements) occurs and the employment of such executive officer is terminated by our company other than for cause or by such executive officer for good reasons within two years following the occurrence of the change in control event. These agreements may increase the cost of a party seeking to effect a change in control of our company. 20 Table of Contents Future sales, pledge or issuance of common shares by us or our current shareholders could depress our share price and you may suffer dilution. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market, the perception that future sales may occur, or the pledge of a substantial portion of our common shares could depress the prevailing market price of our shares. As of March 31, 2015, we had approximately 29 million common shares issued and outstanding. As of March 31, 2015, Baupost Group LLC/MA, our largest shareholder, owned 3,283,235 common shares, representing approximately 11.5% of our outstanding common shares. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders”. Mosel in the past decided to sell a significant portion of our common shares in order to raise funds. In June 2006, Mosel sold 1,739,130 common shares through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Giant Haven, under a shelf registration statement which has since expired. In addition, in March 2007, we issued 3,043,749 common shares pursuant to a share purchase and subscription agreement with ChipMOS Taiwan and Siliconware Precision, and we entered into a registration rights agreement in March 2007 with Siliconware Precision, pursuant to which we granted to Siliconware Precision certain rights to require us to register these common shares for sale under the Securities Act. In July 2007, Mosel sold 2,030,316 common shares through Giant Haven Investment Limited (“Giant Haven”) to ProMOS Technologies Inc. (“ProMOS”) and Powertech Technology Inc. (“Powertech Technology”) and we then granted Giant Haven, ProMOS and Powertech Technology certain rights to require us to register these common shares for sale under the Securities Act. For a shareholder that is not our affiliate these shares may be resold pursuant to Rule 144 after lapse of the applicable holding period. In 2008, ProMOS failed to meet its payment obligations to ThaiLin. Subsequently in March 2009, ThaiLin acquired 1,015,158 common shares from ProMOS pursuant to its enforcement of the collateral under a Stock Pledge Agreement between ThaiLin and ProMOS dated December 3, 2008. In November 2012, ThaiLin sold 2,000,000 common shares and Siliconware Precision sold 800,000 common shares pursuant to a Secondary Offering. In May 2013, ThaiLin completed its sale of 380,506 of our common shares to Tokyo Seimitsu. In November 2013 and January 2014, ThaiLin sold 2,000,000 common shares and 2,093,705 common shares back to ChipMOS Bermuda, respectively. After the transactions, ThaiLin did not hold any of our common shares. In September 2014, Siliconware Precision sold 1,000,000 common shares back to ChipMOS Bermuda. From April 2012 to March 2014, Mosel sold 2,267,270 common shares through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Giant Haven, under Rule 144. By the end of 2014, Mosel and Mosel’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Giant Haven did not hold any of our common shares. Furthermore, Siliconware Precision may be able to sell, in any three-month period, that number of those ChipMOS common shares that Siliconware Precision owns, up to the greater of (i) one percent of our outstanding common shares or (ii) the average weekly trading volume of our common shares as reported on the NASDAQ Capital Market during the four calendar weeks prior to filing a notice under Rule 144(h) for any such sales pursuant to Rule 144(e) under the Securities Act. On September 14, 2007, ChipMOS Bermuda issued 151,031 common shares pursuant to a share exchange transaction with ChipMOS Taiwan, under which ChipMOS Bermuda exchanged one common share for every 8.4 ChipMOS Taiwan shares then outstanding. Following the completion of the share exchange transaction, ChipMOS Taiwan became our wholly-owned subsidiary. In February 2010, we agreed to sell 15.8% of ChipMOS Taiwan’s outstanding shares to Siliconware Precision. In January 2011, the share purchase transaction was completed and we owned 84.2% of ChipMOS Taiwan’s outstanding shares as of December 31, 2011. On April 16, 2013, as part of ChipMOS Taiwan’s listing plan on the TWSE, we completed the sale of 6.5 million outstanding ChipMOS Taiwan shares or 0.8% of the total number of ChipMOS Taiwan’s outstanding shares, at the price of NT$15.0 per share to ChipMOS Taiwan’s underwriters for the TWSE listing plan and to certain others, including non-US employees of ChipMOS Taiwan. From September 2, 2013 to October 3, 2013, we sold 180 million shares or 21.4% of the total number of ChipMOS Taiwan’s outstanding shares, at the price of NT$20.0 per shares to investors. After the completion of the aforesaid sales the Company held approximately 523 million ChipMOS Taiwan shares, representing 62.1% of the total number of ChipMOS Taiwan’s outstanding shares. On April 9, 2014, ChipMOS Bermuda sold approximately 1.3 million ChipMOS Taiwan shares as “green shoe” option to market investors. ChipMOS Taiwan became listed and commenced trading on the main board of TWSE on April 11, 2014. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, we continue to own approximately 522 million ChipMOS Taiwan shares, representing 60.4% of ChipMOS Taiwan’s outstanding shares without any “green shoe” option outstanding. See “—Risk Relating to Our Corporate Structure—ChipMOS Taiwan’s ability to maintain its listing and trading status on the Taiwan Stock Exchange is dependent on factors outside of the Company or ChipMOS Taiwan’s control and satisfaction of stock exchange requirements. ChipMOS Taiwan may not be able to overcome such factors that disrupt its trading status on the main board of Taiwan Stock Exchange or satisfy other eligibility requirements that may be required of it in the future” for additional information on ChipMOS Taiwan’s listing plan. We plan to issue, from time to time, additional shares in connection with employee compensation and to finance possible future capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Share Option Plan and Share Appreciation Rights Plan” for a discussion of the Share Option Plan that we have adopted for the benefit of all of our directors, officers, employees and consultants. The issuance of additional shares may have a dilutive effect on other shareholders and may cause the price of our common shares to decrease. In addition, the indictment relating to Mr. Hung-Chiu Hu alleges that embezzled funds were used in investments by PacMOS Technologies Holdings Limited (“PacMOS”), which, as of March 31, 2015, owned 2.4% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, PacMOS may be ordered by relevant authorities to dispose of its investments made with any embezzled funds, which may result in a sale of our shares by PacMOS. A sale of a significant number of our shares by PacMOS or our other current shareholders could depress our share price. 21 Table of Contents The share numbers disclosed in the foregoing paragraphs are adjusted for the Company’s 1-for-every-4 reverse stock split effective on January 21, 2011. If the trading price of our common shares declines, we may face a limited public market for our common shares and reduced availability of future debt or equity financing. Companies listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) are subject to delisting for, among other things, failure to maintain a minimum closing bid price of US$1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. We are in compliance with the NASDAQ Listing Rules as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F. We were not in compliance with the NASDAQ minimum bid price requirement from September 15, 2009 until May 5, 2010, when we regained compliance. During this time, we applied for, and NASDAQ approved, the transfer of our listing from NASDAQ Global Select Market to NASDAQ Capital Market. If the bid price of our common stock falls below US$1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days again in the future, we may be subject to delisting. If our common shares are delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common shares would likely trade in the over-the-counter market, which could make selling our common shares more difficult. Smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our common shares are delisted, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common shares. These factors could limit our common shares’ liquidity and result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our common shares. Future declines in our share price could also significantly impair our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing, and could significantly increase ownership dilution to shareholders caused by our issuing equity in financing or other transactions. A general permission under the Exchange Control Act 1972 and the Exchange Control Regulation 1973 (as amended) (and other relevant legislations and regulations) of Bermuda has been given by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (the “BMA”) for the issue and transfer of our common shares to and between non-residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes, provided that our common shares remain listed on an appointed stock exchange (which includes listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market). In the event our common shares are no longer listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market or another appointed stock exchange, specific consents of the BMA would be required for all issues and transfers of our shares, unless such issues and/or transfers fall under certain exemptions as provided by the BMA. Pending merger with ThaiLin may or may not complete or achieve the expected synergy, efficiency and effectiveness. On November 12, 2014, ChipMOS Taiwan made public announcement at Market Observation Post System, the official public disclosure website for TWSE-listing companies in Taiwan, announcing ChipMOS Taiwan’s contemplated merger with ThaiLin, a Taiwan company which approximately 47.5% issued share capital is held by ChipMOS Taiwan (the “Merger”). The Company made the corresponding announcement of the Merger at EDGAR on the same date. As a result of the Merger, pursuant to all of the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement by and between ChipMOS Taiwan and ThaiLin, dated November 12, 2014 (the “Merger Agreement”), ThaiLin will merge into ChipMOS Taiwan, which will hold 100% of the issued share capital of Modern Mind, which holds 100% interests of ChipMOS Shanghai. The Merger was approved by the board of directors of ChipMOS Taiwan and ThaiLin on November 12, 2014, and approved by the shareholders of ChipMOS Taiwan and ThaiLin on December 30, 2014. As a result of Merger, ChipMOS Taiwan will become our 58.0% owned subsidiary and ChipMOS Shanghai will become an indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary of ChipMOS Taiwan through ChipMOS Taiwan’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Modern Mind. The interests of ChipMOS Bermuda in Modern Mind and ChipMOS Shanghai will increase to 58.0%. The testing services provided by ThaiLin will be continually provided by ChipMOS Taiwan. And, no effect of the Merger on our quality control, insurance coverage, tax credit and alternative minimum tax (“AMT”) expenses imposed under the ROC Alternative Minimum Tax Act (“AMT Act”). Completion of the Merger is expected to occur on June 17, 2015 and is further subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement and the receipt of approvals from relevant Republic of China governing authorities, including but not limited to the Fair Trade Commission, Financial Supervisory Commission, TWSE, and Gre Tai Securities Market. The Company intends to work with all parties to satisfy conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement in order to complete the Merger. Although we expect that completion of the Merger will occur as contemplated in the Merger Agreement, unforeseen events and occurrences may delay or prevent completion of the Merger, or may significantly reduce the anticipated potential benefits to ChipMOS of the Merger. However, prior to the completion of the Merger, there might be situation such as event default continuing for 60 days without improvement by the default party that causes ChipMOS Taiwan or ThaiLin to decide that the Merger should be abandoned and completion of the Merger is no longer desired. It could develop that the conditions precedent to the Merger are not satisfied or waived, which in turn could delay or prevent completion of the Merger. Moreover, although we believe that the Merger will increase synergy, efficiency, and effectiveness of the Company and its subsidiaries, there can be no assurance that the expected synergy, efficiency, and effectiveness of the Company and its subsidiaries will be realized after the completion of the Merger. In particular, if the industry change or our business decline could prevent these from being realized. 22 Table of Contents 