Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information before deciding to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We have attempted to identify below the major factors that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results, but we cannot assure you that we have identified all of those factors. If any of the following risks actually happen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Company We are at an early stage of development and have not generated any revenue. We are a development-stage company with a limited operating history, and we have not generated any revenues to date. We have no products available for sale, and none are expected to be commercially available for several years, if at all. We may never obtain FDA approval of our products in development and, even if we do so and are also able to commercialize our products, we may never generate revenue sufficient to become profitable. Our failure to generate revenue and profit would likely lead to loss of your investment in our company. We have incurred net losses to date and must raise additional capital by June 2009 in order to continue to operate. We have incurred net losses in each year of operation since our inception in July 2000. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $38.6 million. We will need to continue to conduct significant research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities that, together with projected general and administrative expenses, we expect will result in substantial operating losses for the next several years. Accordingly, we do not expect to be generating sales or other revenue and will remain dependent on outside sources of financing during that time. If we are unable to raise funds from outside sources for our continuing operations, we may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents We may raise capital through public or private equity financings, partnerships, debt financings, bank borrowings, or other sources. Additional funding may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not otherwise available, we may need to significantly curtail operations. To obtain additional funding, we may need to enter into arrangements that require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies, products and/or potential markets. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, our equity holders may experience dilution of their proportionate ownership of the company. Based on approximately $900,000 of unrestricted cash as of March 20, 2009, we believe that we have sufficient cash to meet our financial and operating obligations into June 2009. We will require more cash to fund our operations. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such new financing or, if available, that such financing will be obtainable on terms favorable to us. We must raise additional cash by June 2009, which may include one or more subsequent closings under the Series B Preferred Stock purchase agreement entered into on February 12, 2009, or we may not be able to continue operations and may be forced to seek bankruptcy protection. We are a counterclaim defendant in a lawsuit instituted by our former Chief Executive Officer that relates to certain of our intellectual property. In January 2004, David Platt, our former Chief Executive Officer, filed a lawsuit in Massachusetts against GlycoGenesys, Inc. for claims including breach of contract. GlycoGenesys subsequently named us as a counterclaim defendant alleging, among other things, tortious interference and misappropriation of proprietary rights, and sought monetary damages and injunctive relief related to our intellectual property. We and Dr. Platt are contesting these counterclaims vigorously. In October 2006, Marlborough Research and Development, Inc. (now known as Prospect Therapeutics, Inc.) purchased certain assets including this lawsuit from the GlycoGenesys bankruptcy estate and continue prosecuting the counterclaims against us and Dr. Platt. Concluding that certain disputes of fact could not be resolved as a matter of law, the court on May 27, 2008 denied our motion for summary judgment. Prospect Therapeutics informed the Court that it does not seek monetary damages other than recovery of attorney fees. On December 12, 2008, in response to a motion for withdrawal by counsel in this case, the court amended its order dated October 6, 2008 to state that by January 9, 2009, a default judgment will be entered against us if new defense counsel has not entered an appearance on our behalf or we have not restored our relationship with our current counsel. On January 7, 2009, our successor counsel entered a notice of appearance to represent us at trial which commenced on March 10, 2009. If we do not prevail at trial, we could be prevented from the exclusive use of the intellectual property that is the subject of the litigation and accordingly there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are involved in litigation with Summer Street Research Partners. On January 30, 2008, Custom Equity Research, Incorporated (d/b/a Summer Street Research Partners) filed a lawsuit against us in the Superior Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, alleging claims for breach of contract, declaratory judgment and unjust enrichment arising out of an engagement letter under which Summer Street agreed to provide institutional investment placement services to us. Summer Street claims it is entitled to a placement fee for each placement made during the term of the agreement and for each issuance of securities made or agreed to be made by us from October 17, 2007 through November 16, 2008. We initially responded to the lawsuit with a motion to dismiss, which the Court denied on June 23, 2008, finding that the letter agreement was ambiguous with respect to Summer Street’s entitlement to compensation. The Court also denied Summer Street’s motion for a prejudgment attachment and trustee process, preliminarily finding that Summer Street was not likely to prevail on any of its claims. On July 3, 2008, we filed our answer, denying Summer Street’s material allegations. The parties are currently engaged in discovery and no trial date has been set for this matter. We believe the lawsuit is without merit and intend to contest it vigorously. However, if we were to receive an adverse decision, we might be required to pay cash damages to Summer Street which would have would have a material adverse effect on our financial position. 13 Table of Contents Our drug candidates are based on novel unproven technologies. Our drug candidates in development are based on novel unproven technologies using proprietary carbohydrate compounds in combination with FDA approved drugs currently used in the treatment of cancer and other diseases. Carbohydrates are difficult to synthesize, and we may not be able to synthesize carbohydrates that would be usable as target delivery vehicles for the anti-cancer drugs we are working with or other therapeutics we intend to develop. We have one drug candidate in clinical trials and results are uncertain. We have one product candidate in human clinical trials. Pre-clinical results in animal studies are not necessarily predictive of outcomes in human clinical trials. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and may not be successful. They involve the testing of potential therapeutic agents, or effective treatments, in humans, typically in three phases, to determine the safety and efficacy of the product candidates necessary for an approved drug. Many products in human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics. Even if our products progress successfully through initial human testing, they may fail in later stages of development. We may engage others to conduct our clinical trials, including clinical research organizations and, possibly, government-sponsored agencies. These trials may not start or be completed as we forecast, or may not achieve desired results. We may be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Even if our current and anticipated product candidates achieve positive results in clinical trials, we may be unable to commercialize them. Potential products may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, be difficult to manufacture on a large scale, be uneconomical to produce, fail to achieve market acceptance, or be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. Our inability to commercialize out products would substantially impair the viability of our company. Our lack of operating experience may cause us difficulty in managing our growth. We have limited experience in manufacturing or procuring products in commercial quantities, conducting other later-stage phases of the regulatory approval process, selling pharmaceutical products, or negotiating, establishing and maintaining strategic relationships. Any growth of our company will require us to expand our management and our operational and financial systems and controls. If we are unable to do so, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. If rapid growth occurs, it may strain our operational, managerial and financial resources. We will depend on third parties to manufacture and market our products and to design trial protocols, arrange for and monitor the clinical trials, and collect and analyze data. We do not have, and do not now intend to develop, facilities for the manufacture of any of our products for clinical or commercial production. In addition, we are not a party to any long-term agreement with any of our suppliers, and accordingly, we have our products manufactured on a purchase-order basis from one of two primary suppliers. We will need to develop relationships with manufacturers and enter into collaborative arrangements with licensees or have others manufacture our products on a contract basis. We expect to depend on such collaborators to supply us with products manufactured in compliance with standards imposed by the FDA and foreign regulators. In addition, we have limited experience in marketing, sales or distribution, and we do not intend to develop a sales and marketing infrastructure to commercialize our pharmaceutical products. If we develop commercial products, we will need to rely on licensees, collaborators, joint venture partners or independent distributors to market and sell those products. 14 Table of Contents Moreover, as we develop products eligible for clinical trials, we may contract with independent parties to design the trial protocols, arrange for and monitor the clinical trials, collect data and analyze data. In addition, certain clinical trials for our products may be conducted by government-sponsored agencies and will be dependent on governmental participation and funding. Our dependence on independent parties and clinical sites involves risks including reduced control over the timing and other aspects of our clinical trials. We are exposed to product liability, pre-clinical and clinical liability risks which could place a substantial financial burden upon us, should we be sued, because we do not currently have product liability insurance above and beyond our general insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability and other liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical formulations and products, as a result of which claims may be asserted against us. In addition, the use in our clinical trials of pharmaceutical formulations and products that our potential collaborators may develop and the subsequent sale of these formulations or products by us or our potential collaborators may cause us to bear a portion of or all product liability risks. A successful liability claim or series of claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since we do not currently have any FDA-approved products or formulations, we do not currently have any product liability insurance covering commercialized products. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, or such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against our potential liabilities. Furthermore, our current and potential partners with whom we have collaborative agreements or our future licensees may not be willing to indemnify us against these types of liabilities and may not themselves be sufficiently insured or have sufficient liquidity to satisfy any product liability claims. Claims or losses in excess of any product liability insurance coverage that may be obtained by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If users of our proposed products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, or if new restrictive legislation is adopted, market acceptance of our proposed products may be limited and we may not achieve revenues. The continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners and the availability of capital. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the U.S., given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. While we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of such proposals could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to commercialize our proposed products will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our proposed formulations and products and related treatments are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health management organizations, or HMOs. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical drugs and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the U.S. and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and drugs, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. 15 Table of Contents There are risks associated with our reliance on third parties for marketing, sales, managed care and distribution infrastructure and channels. We expect that we will be required to enter into agreements with commercial partners to engage in sales, marketing and distribution efforts around our products in development. We may be unable to establish or maintain third-party relationships on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. In addition, these third parties may have similar or more established relationships with our competitors. If we do not enter into relationships with third parties for the sales and marketing of our proposed products, we will need to develop our own sales and marketing capabilities. We may be unable to engage qualified distributors. Even if engaged, these distributors may: • fail to satisfy financial or contractual obligations to us; • fail to adequately market our products; • cease operations with little or no notice to us; or • offer, design, manufacture or promote competing formulations or products. If we fail to develop sales, managed care, marketing and distribution channels, we would experience delays in generating sales and incur increased costs, which would harm our financial results. We depend on key individuals to develop our products and pursue collaborations. We are highly dependent on Anatole Klyosov, Ph.D., Chief Scientist who has scientific technical or other business expertise and experience that is critical to our success. The loss of Dr. Klyosov, or failure to attract or retain other key personnel, could prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products and core technologies. Risks Related to the Drug Development Industry We will need regulatory approvals to commercialize our products. We are required to obtain approval from the FDA in order to sell our products in the U.S. and from foreign regulatory authorities in order to sell our products in other countries. The FDA’s review and approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Extensive pre-clinical and clinical data and supporting information must be submitted to the FDA for each indication for each product candidate in order to secure FDA approval. Before receiving FDA clearance to market our proposed products, we will have to demonstrate that our products are safe and effective on the patient population and for the diseases that are to be treated. Clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of drugs are subject to the rigorous testing and approval process of the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal, state and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacture, labeling, advertising, distribution and promotion of drugs and medical devices. As a result, regulatory approvals can take a number of years or longer to accomplish and require the expenditure of substantial financial, managerial and other resources. The FDA could reject an application or require us to conduct additional clinical or other studies as part of the regulatory review process. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain FDA approvals would prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates, which would prevent, defer or decrease our receipt of revenues. In addition, if we receive initial regulatory approval, our product candidates will be subject to extensive and rigorous ongoing domestic and foreign government regulation. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory clearances. Data already obtained, or in the future obtained, from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials do not necessarily predict the results that will be obtained from later pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. Moreover, 16 Table of Contents pre-clinical and clinical data is susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a proposed formulation or product under development could delay or prevent regulatory clearance of the potential drug, resulting in delays to commercialization, and could materially harm our business. Our clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient levels of safety and efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our drugs, and thus our proposed drugs may not be approved for marketing. Our competitive position depends on protection of our intellectual property. Development and protection of our intellectual property are critical to our business. All of our intellectual property, patented or otherwise, has been invented and/or developed by employees of our company. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to practice our technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products or processes in the U.S. and other countries, protect trade secrets, and prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We are a counterclaim defendant in a lawsuit instituted by our chief executive officer that relates to our intellectual property as described under “Risks Related to Our Company” above. Since patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy for at least portions of their pendency periods (published on U.S. patent issuance or, if earlier, 18 months from earliest filing date for most applications) and since other publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we are the first to make the inventions to be covered by our patent applications. The patent position of biopharmaceutical firms generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. Some or all of our patent applications may not issue as patents or the claims of any issued patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies or products. In addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged and subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Patent litigation is widespread in the biotechnology industry and could harm our business. Litigation might be necessary to protect our patent position or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights, and we may not have the required resources to pursue such litigation or to protect our patent rights. Although we require our scientific and technical employees and consultants to enter into broad assignment of inventions agreements, and all of our employees, consultants and corporate partners with access to proprietary information to enter into confidentiality agreements, these agreements may not be honored. Products we develop could be subject to infringement claims asserted by others. We cannot assure that products based on our patents or intellectual property that we license from others will not be challenged by a third party claiming infringement of its proprietary rights. If we were not able to successfully defend our patents or licensed rights, we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement. We face intense competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We face direct competition from U.S. and foreign companies focusing on pharmaceutical products, which are rapidly evolving. Our competitors include major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions. Many of these competitors have greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs and more effective marketing and manufacturing organizations, than we do. In addition, academic and government institutions are increasingly likely to enter into exclusive licensing agreements with commercial enterprises, including our competitors, to market commercial products 17 Table of Contents based on technology developed at such institutions. Our competitors may succeed in developing or licensing technologies and products that are more effective or less costly than ours, or succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for product candidates before we do. Acquisitions of, or investments in, competing pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies by large corporations could increase such competitors’ financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources. The market for our proposed products is rapidly changing and competitive, and new drugs and new treatments which may be developed by others could impair our ability to maintain and grow our business and remain competitive. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Developments by others may render our proposed products noncompetitive or obsolete, or we may be unable to keep pace with technological developments or other market factors. Technological competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase. As a pre-revenue company engaged in the development of drug technologies, our resources are limited and we may experience technical challenges inherent in such technologies. Competitors have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competition. Some of these technologies may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing similar therapeutic effects compared to our proposed products. Our competitors may develop drugs that are safer, more effective or less costly than our proposed products and, therefore, present a serious competitive threat to us. The potential widespread acceptance of therapies that are alternatives to ours may limit market acceptance of our proposed products, even if commercialized. Many of our targeted diseases and conditions can also be treated by other medication. These treatments may be widely accepted in medical communities and have a longer history of use. The established use of these competitive drugs may limit the potential for our technologies, formulations and products to receive widespread acceptance if commercialized. Health care cost containment initiatives and the growth of managed care may limit our returns. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully may be affected by the ongoing efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain the cost of health care. These entities are challenging prices of health care products and services, denying or limiting coverage and reimbursement amounts for new therapeutic products, and for FDA-approved products considered experimental or investigational, or which are used for disease indications without FDA marketing approval. Even if we succeed in bringing any products to the market, they may not be considered cost-effective and third-party reimbursement might not be available or sufficient. If adequate third-party coverage is not available, we may not be able to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in research and product development. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us before or after any of our proposed products are approved for marketing. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate in all circumstances. If we commercialize our products, their use by patients could expose us to potential product liability and other claims resulting from alleged injury. This liability may result from claims made directly by consumers or by pharmaceutical companies or others selling such products. Although we currently have clinical trial insurance and directors and officers insurance, we may be unable to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. Moreover, we have no product or professional liability insurance due to our stage of development, and we may be unable to obtain such insurance at the appropriate time on acceptable terms, if at all. Any inability to obtain 18 Table of Contents and/or maintain insurance coverage on acceptable terms could prevent or limit the commercialization of any products we develop. Risks Related to Our Stock Stock prices for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are volatile. The market price for securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically has been highly volatile, and the market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Fluctuations in the trading price or liquidity of our common stock may adversely affect, among other things, the interest in our stock by purchasers on the open market and our ability to raise capital. Our common stock was delisted from trading on the NYSE Alternext US and only recently began to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Our common stock was delisted from trading on the NYSE Alternext US as of January 9, 2009 and as of January 21, 2009, began to be quoted on OTC Bulletin Board. We cannot predict how liquid a market for our stock will be developed on the OTC Bulletin Board. Companies whose stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin are not required to comply with the more extensive corporate governance and other listing requirements needed to meet the listing qualifications of the national securities exchanges. Investors in such companies may encounter greater compliance required by broker-dealers in trading their shares. We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock. Our board of directors has authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or a part of our authorized but unissued shares. Such stock issuances could be made at a price that reflects a discount or a premium from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise capital, we may need to issue securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for a significant amount of our common stock. These issuances would dilute your percentage ownership interest, which would have the effect of reducing your influence on matters on which our stockholders vote, and might dilute the book value of our common stock. You may incur additional dilution if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options, or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. Our board of directors has the power to designate a series of preferred stock without shareholder approval that could contain conversion or voting rights that adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes issuance of capital stock including 10,000,000 undesignated shares, and empowers our Board of Directors to prescribe by resolution and without shareholder approval a class or series of undesignated shares, including the number of shares in the class or series and the voting powers, designations, rights, preferences, restrictions and the relative rights in each such class or series. The Board previously authorized a series of preferred stock comprised of 5,000,000 shares designated as Series A 12% preferred stock, of which 1,742,500 shares are issued and outstanding, in which each share has one vote and votes on an as-converted basis with our common stock. The Board on February 12, 2009, authorized and designated two series of preferred stock comprised Series B-1 preferred stock, of which 900,000 shares are issued and outstanding, and Series B-2 preferred stock, comprised of 2,100,000 of which none are outstanding. Each share of Series B-1 preferred stock and Series B-2 preferred stock is convertible into four shares of our common stock and, in addition to a separate class vote with respect to certain matters, votes on an as-converted basis as a class with our common stock. In addition, the Board has authority to designate the remaining 2,000,000 shares in one or more series with conversion or voting rights, such as multiple votes per share, the result of which could adversely affect the voting rights of holders of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents We may need to request our shareholders to authorize additional shares of common stock in connection with subsequent equity finance transactions. We are authorized to issue 200,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 48,052,159 shares were issued and outstanding on December 31, 2008. We have reserved 13,742,500 shares of common stock for issuance upon conversion of our Series A 12% preferred stock and Series B-1 and Series B-2 preferred stock, and 66,056,811 shares for issuance upon exercise of our outstanding stock options and warrants. If all of these securities were converted or exercised, a total of approximately 128,000,000 shares of our common stock would be outstanding. In addition, certain dilutive finance transactions could require us to reserve additional shares if certain of our warrants become exercisable for additional shares as a result of anti-dilution protection provisions. As a result, we may have insufficient shares of common stock available to issue in connection with a future equity finance transaction, and accordingly may be required at an annual or special meeting of shareholders to seek approval of an increase in the number of our authorized shares of common stock before undertaking or as a condition to completing an offering. We cannot assure you that our shareholders would authorize an increase in the number of shares of our common stock. As a “thinly-traded” stock, large sales can place downward pressure on our stock price. Our common stock, despite certain increases of trading volume from time to time, experiences periods when it could be considered “thinly traded.” Finance transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 