Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to increasing competition that may adversely affect our operating results. The market for avocados and processed avocado products is highly competitive and affects each of our businesses. Each of our businesses are subject to competitive pressures, including the following: • California avocados are impacted by an increasing volume of foreign grown avocados being imported into the United States. Recently, there have been significant plantings of avocados in Mexico, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Peru and other parts of the world, which have had, and will continue to have, the effect of increasing the volume of foreign grown avocados entering the United States market. • California avocados are subject to competition from other California avocado handlers. If we are unable to consistently pay California growers a competitive price for their avocados, these growers may choose to have their avocados marketed by alternate handlers. • Non-California sourced avocados and perishable food products are impacted by competitors operating in Mexico. Generally, handlers of Mexican grown avocados operate facilities that are substantially smaller than our facility in Uruapan, Mexico. If we are unable to pack and market a sufficient volume of Mexican grown avocados, smaller handlers will have a lower per unit cost and be able to offer Mexican avocados at a more competitive price to our customers. • Non-California sourced avocados and perishable food products are also subject to competition from other California avocado handlers that market Chilean grown avocados. If we are unable to consistently pay Chilean packers a competitive price for their avocados, these packers may choose to have their avocados marketed by alternate handlers. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. We conduct a substantial amount of business with growers and customers who are located outside the United States. We purchase avocados from foreign growers and packers, sell fresh avocados and processed avocado products to foreign customers, and operate a packinghouse and a processing plant in Mexico. In the most recent years, there has been an increase in organized crime in Mexico. This has not had an impact on our operations, but this does increase the risk of doing business in Mexico. We are also subject to regulations imposed by the Mexican government, and also to examinations by the Mexican tax authorities (See Note 8 in the consolidated financial statements). Significant changes to these government regulations and to assessments by the Mexican tax authorities can have a negative impact on our operations and operating results in Mexico. For additional information about our non-California sourced fruit, see the “Business” section included in this Annual Report. Our current international operations are subject to a number of inherent risks, including: • Local economic and political conditions, including disruptions in trading and capital markets; • Restrictive foreign governmental actions, such as restrictions on transfers of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs; • Changes in legal or regulatory requirements affecting foreign investment, loans, taxes, imports, and exports; and Currency exchange fluctuations may impact the results of our operations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations, depending upon the nature of the changes, may make our domestic-sourced products more expensive compared to foreign grown products or may increase our cost of obtaining foreign-sourced products. Because we do not hedge against our foreign currency exposure, our business has increased susceptibility to foreign currency fluctuations. We and our growers are subject to the risks that are inherent in farming. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by numerous factors over which we have little or no control and that are inherent in farming, including reductions in the market prices for our products, adverse weather and growing conditions, pest and disease problems, and new government regulations regarding farming and the marketing of agricultural products. Our earnings are sensitive to fluctuations in market prices and demand for our products. Excess supplies often cause severe price competition in our industry. Growing conditions in various parts of the world, particularly weather conditions such as windstorms, floods, droughts and freezes, as well as diseases and pests, are primary factors affecting market prices because of their influence on the supply and quality of product. 9 Table of Contents Fresh produce is highly perishable and generally must be brought to market and sold soon after harvest. The selling price received for each type of produce depends on all of these factors, including the availability and quality of the produce item in the market, and the availability and quality of competing types of produce. In addition, general public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food products could reduce demand and prices for some of our products. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products that we produce for health or other reasons, and we are unable to modify our products or to develop products that satisfy new consumer preferences, there will be a decreased demand for our products. Increases in commodity or raw product costs, such as fuel, and paper, could adversely affect our operating results. Many factors may affect the cost and supply of fresh produce, including external conditions, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, changes in governmental laws and regulations, agricultural programs, severe and prolonged weather conditions and natural disasters. Increased costs for purchased fruit have in the past negatively impacted our operating results, and there can be no assurance that they will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. The price of various commodities can significantly affect our costs. Fuel and transportation cost is a significant component of the price of much of the produce that we purchase from growers, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on to our customers the increased costs we incur in these respects. The cost of paper is also significant to us because some of our products are packed in cardboard boxes. If the price of paper increases and we are not able to effectively pass these price increases along to our customers, then our operating income will decrease. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. We are subject to possible changing USDA and FDA regulations which govern the importation of foreign avocados into the United States and the processing of processed avocado products. The USDA has established, and continues to modify, regulations governing the importation of avocados into the United States. Our permits that allow us to import foreign-sourced avocados into the United States generally are contingent on our compliance with these regulations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with existing and modified regulations and are unable to secure avocado import permits in the future. The FDA establishes, and continues to modify, regulations governing the production of processed avocado products. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with existing and modified regulations. The acquisition of other businesses could pose risks to our operating income. We intend to review acquisition prospects that would complement our business. While we are not currently a party to any agreement with respect to any acquisitions, we may acquire other businesses in the future. Future acquisitions by us could result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, and increased debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the assimilation of the acquired operations, diversion of management’s attention to other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. We may be unable to successfully integrate businesses or the personnel of any business that might be acquired in the future, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to competitively serve our customers is a function of reliable and low cost transportation. Disruption of the supply of these services and/or significant increases in the cost of these services could impact our operating income. We use multiple forms of transportation to bring our products to market. They include ocean, truck, and air-cargo. Disruption to the timely supply of these services or dramatic increases in the cost of these services for any reason including availability of fuel for such services, labor disputes, or governmental restrictions limiting specific forms of transportation could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers and consumers and could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. A portion of our workforce is unionized and labor disruptions could decrease our profitability. While we believe that our relations with our employees are good, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could have a material adverse effect on the portion of our business affected by the dispute, which could impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The value of our common stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates and may be influenced by many factors, including: • Our operating and financial performance and prospects; • The depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • Investor perception of us and the industry and markets in which we operate; • Our inclusion in, or removal from, any equity market indices; • Changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; and • General financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions; Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 