Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Industry Because we depend on the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is characterized by significant and sometimes prolonged downturns from time to time, our net revenue and earnings may fluctuate significantly, which in turn could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Because our business is, and will continue to be, dependent on the requirements of semiconductor companies for independent testing and assembly services, any downturn in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry may reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our results of operations. All of our customers operate in this industry and variations in order levels from our customers and in service fee rates may result in volatility in our net revenue and earnings. For instance, during periods of decreased demand for assembled semiconductors, some of our customers may even simplify, delay or forego final testing of certain types of semiconductors, such as dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, further intensifying our difficulties. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant, and sometimes prolonged, downturns, which have adversely affected our results of operations. For example, the semiconductor industry experienced a downturn beginning in the fourth quarter of 2000 until late 2002. As a result of the downturn, our net revenue and net income for 2001 decreased 36% and 219% from 2000 levels, respectively. In addition, beginning in 2007, the semiconductor industry commenced a significant downturn which has adversely affected our business, particularly our assembly and testing services for DRAM products. This industry downturn is still continuing and we cannot give any assurances that industry conditions will improve or that there will not be any downturn in the future or that any future downturn will not affect our results of operations. Any deterioration in the market for end-user applications for semiconductor products would reduce demand for our services and may result in a decrease in our earnings. Market conditions in the semiconductor industry track, to a large degree, those for their end-user applications. Any deterioration in the market conditions for the end-user applications of semiconductors we test and assemble could reduce demand for our services and, in turn, materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our net revenue is largely attributable to fees derived from testing and assembling semiconductors for use in personal computers, communications equipment, consumer electronic products and display applications. A significant decrease in demand for products in these markets could put pricing pressure on our testing and assembly services and negatively affect our net revenue and earnings. The decrease in market demand for personal computers and communications equipment that began in the fourth quarter of 2000 adversely affected our results of operations in 2000, 2001 and 2002. The weak demand for LCD and other flat-panel display products that began in 2007 also adversely affected our operating results in 2007 and the first half of 2008. Any significant decrease in demand for end-user applications of semiconductors will negatively affect our net revenue and earnings. A decline in average selling prices for our services could result in a decrease in our earnings. Historically, prices for our testing and assembly services in relation to any given semiconductor tend to decline over the course of its product and technology life cycle. See also “— A decrease in market demand for LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductors may adversely affect our capacity utilization rates and thereby negatively affect our profitability.” If we cannot reduce the cost of our testing and assembly services, or introduce higher-margin testing and assembly services for new package types, to offset the decrease in average selling prices for our services, our earnings could decrease. A reversal or slowdown in the outsourcing trend for semiconductor testing and assembly services could reduce our profitability. In recent years, integrated device manufacturers, or IDMs, have increasingly outsourced stages of the semiconductor production process, including testing and assembly, to independent companies like us to shorten production cycles. In addition, the availability of 7 Table of Contents advanced independent semiconductor manufacturing services has also enabled the growth of so-called “fabless” semiconductor companies that focus exclusively on design and marketing and outsource their manufacturing, testing and assembly requirements to independent companies. A substantial portion of our net revenue is indirectly generated from providing semiconductor assembly and testing services to these IDMs and fabless companies. We cannot assure you that these companies will continue to outsource their testing and assembly requirements to independent companies like us. A reversal of, or a slowdown in, this outsourcing trend could result in reduced demand for our services, which in turn could reduce our profitability. Risks Relating to Our Business If we are unable to compete effectively in the highly competitive semiconductor testing and assembly markets, we may lose customers and our income may decline. The semiconductor testing and assembly markets are very competitive. We face competition from a number of IDMs with in-house testing and assembly capabilities and other independent semiconductor testing and assembly companies. Our competitors may have access to more advanced technologies and greater financial and other resources than we do. Many of our competitors have shown a willingness to reduce prices quickly and sharply in the past to maintain capacity utilization in their facilities during periods of reduced demand. In addition, an increasing number of our competitors conduct their operations in lower cost centers in Asia such as Mainland China, Thailand, Vietnam and the Philippines. Any renewed or continued erosion in the prices or demand for our testing and assembly services as a result of increased competition could adversely affect our profits. We are highly dependent on the market for memory products. A downturn in the market or prices for these products could significantly reduce our net revenue and net income. A significant portion of our net revenue is derived from testing and assembling memory semiconductors. Our net revenue derived from the testing and assembly of memory semiconductors accounted for 73%, 74% and 78% of our net revenue in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. In the past, our service fees for testing and assembling memory semiconductors were sharply reduced in tandem with the decrease in the average selling price of DRAM in the semiconductor industry. The oversupply of DRAM products in the second half of 2007 and the weak demand in the DRAM market in first quarter of 2008 resulted in significant reductions in the price of DRAM products, which in turn drove down the average prices for our testing and assembly services for DRAM products in these periods. We cannot assure you that there will not be further downturns in DRAM prices in the future. Any failure of the demand for DRAM to increase or any decrease in the demand or prices for memory products may decrease the demand for our services and our service fees and significantly reduce our net revenue and net income. A decrease in market demand for LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductors may adversely affect our capacity utilization rates and thereby negatively affect our profitability. Our testing and assembly services for LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductors generated net revenue of NT$3,098 million, NT$4,446 million and NT$3,996 million (US$123 million) in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We spent NT$1,803 million, NT$2,418 million and NT$714 million (US$22 million) in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, on equipment for tape carrier package, or TCP, chip-on-film, or COF and chip-on-glass, or COG, technologies, which are used in testing and assembly services for LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductors. Most of this equipment may not be used for technologies other than TCP, COF or COG. In 2007, our gross margin for LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductor testing and assembly services decreased significantly to 8% from 20% in 2006 primarily as a result of the weak demand for LCD and other flat-panel display products, which in turn significantly decreased our capacity utilization rates and average selling prices. Any future decrease in demand for our LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductor testing and assembly services would significantly impair our capacity utilization rates and may result in our inability to generate sufficient revenue to cover the significant depreciation expenses for the equipment used in testing and assembling LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductors, thereby further negatively affecting our profitability. See also “— Because of our high fixed costs, if we are unable to achieve relatively high capacity utilization rates, our earnings and profitability may be adversely affected.” 8 Table of Contents Our significant amount of indebtedness and interest expense will limit our cash flow and could adversely affect our operations. We have a significant level of debt and interest expense. We had approximately NT$8,046 million (US$248 million) and NT$11,324 million (US$349 million) in short- and long-term indebtedness, respectively, outstanding as of December 31, 2007, including NT$2,076 million (US$64 million) of the 1.75% convertible notes due 2009 issued in November 2004, or the 2004 notes, and NT$3,211 million (US$99 million) of the 3.375% convertible notes due 2011 issued in September 2006, or the 2006 notes. In addition, ThaiLin, our 38.2% owned consolidated subsidiary, holds US$7 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2004 notes. The holders of the 2006 notes have the right to cause ChipMOS Bermuda to repurchase the notes on September 29, 2008 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus any accrued and unpaid interest. Our significant indebtedness poses risks to our business, including the risks that: • we may have to use a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • insufficient cash flow from operations may force us to sell assets, or seek additional capital, which we may be unable to do at all or on terms favorable to us; • our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns; and • our debt service obligations increase our vulnerabilities to competitive pressures, because many of our competitors may be less leveraged than we are. The indentures governing the 2004 notes and the 2006 notes do not limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future. As we incur additional indebtedness, the risks that we face could intensify. Our ability to make required payments on the 2004 notes and the 2006 notes and to satisfy any other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance and our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing on commercially reasonable terms. For additional information on our indebtedness, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Resources.” Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly and may cause the market price of our common shares to be volatile. Our results of operations have varied significantly from period to period and may continue to vary in the future. Among the more important factors affecting our quarterly and annual results of operations are the following: • our ability to accurately predict customer demand, as we must commit significant capital expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • our ability to quickly adjust to unanticipated declines or shortfalls in demand and market prices for our testing and assembly services, due to our high percentage of fixed costs; • changes in prices for our testing and assembly services; • volume of orders relative to our testing and assembly capacity; • capital expenditures and production uncertainties relating to the roll-out of new testing or assembly services; • our ability to obtain adequate testing and assembly equipment on a timely basis; 9 Table of Contents • changes in costs and availability of raw materials, equipment and labor; • changes in our product mix; and • earthquakes, drought and other natural disasters, as well as industrial accidents. Because of the factors listed above, our future results of operations or growth rates may be below the expectations of research analysts and investors. If so, the market price of our common shares, and the market value of your investment, may fall. The ongoing criminal proceeding involving Mr. Shih-Jye Cheng, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Hung-Chiu Hu, our former director, could have a material adverse effect on our business and cause our stock price to decline. Mr. Shih-Jye Cheng, our chairman and chief executive officer, was indicted by the Taipei District Prosecutor’s Office, or the prosecutor, in December 2005. Based upon information released by the prosecutor, the indictment alleges that Mr. Shih-Jye Cheng, as instructed by Mr. Hung-Chiu Hu, purchased repurchase notes on January 6, January 13, and January 28, 2004 from Founder Associates Limited, a British Virgin Islands company affiliated with Mega Securities Co., Ltd. (formerly known as Barits International Securities Co., Ltd.), with an aggregate principal amount of approximately US$29 million, by using corporate funds from ChipMOS Taiwan and ThaiLin. The indictment further alleges that these repurchase notes were used as a cover to misuse the corporate funds of Mosel, and its affiliated entities, including ChipMOS Taiwan and ThaiLin, in violation of ROC law. In addition, the indictment alleges that Mr. Hu and others were engaged in the insider trading of the securities of Mosel in violation of ROC law, but none of the current officers at ChipMOS Taiwan or ThaiLin was indicted in this regard. On January 5, 2006, our board established a special committee, comprised solely of Messrs. Yeong-Her Wang, Rong Hsu and Pierre Laflamme, three of our independent directors, to evaluate the circumstances surrounding the indictment of Mr. Cheng. The special committee engaged Kirkpatrick & Lockhart Preston Gates Ellis LLP (formerly Preston Gates & Ellis LLP) as its independent international legal counsel, Baker & McKenzie as its independent ROC legal counsel, and Ernst & Young (formerly Diwan, Ernst & Young) as its financial advisor to assist in its investigation. The special committee’s investigation focused on (1) the probability that Mr. Shih-Jye Cheng would be convicted on the charges described in the indictment, (2) whether the indictment resulted in any pecuniary or other damage to us, (3) whether there were any internal control weaknesses related to the investments in repurchase notes within ChipMOS Bermuda and its subsidiaries and (4) whether ChipMOS Bermuda is required by applicable laws or the Nasdaq Global Select Market listing requirements to take any action in connection with the indictment. The special committee did not attempt to independently determine whether Mr. Cheng had engaged in any wrongdoing in connection with the investments in repurchase notes, irrespective of whether such wrongdoing would lead to a conviction on the charges under the indictment. On June 28, 2006, the special committee issued its report, including its findings and recommendations. Based upon the results of its investigation, it found that (1) Mr. Shih-Jye Cheng has declared himself not guilty of the charges described in the indictment, (2) Baker & McKenzie, after reviewing the indictment and the prosecutor’s exhibits, has found that the evidence produced by the prosecutor seems to be inadequate and that there is a low probability of the charges in the indictment being founded, (3) the financial advisor to the special committee has found that we suffered no loss (not taking into account exchange rate factors) and that all monies (capital and interest) were remitted back to our subsidiaries involved, (4) we have suffered no identifiable harm to our reputation or business and (5) Mr. Cheng has not been impaired by the indictment to perform as our chairman and chief executive officer. The special committee recommended that our board maintain Mr. Cheng as our chairman and chief executive officer with full responsibilities and our board unanimously (with Mr. Cheng having recused himself) resolved to accept and adopt the special committee’s recommendation with regard to Mr. Cheng. Our board of directors also resolved to continue the role of the special committee for the duration of the ongoing criminal proceeding involving Mr. Cheng to actively monitor any developments of the criminal investigation and take or recommend any appropriate action in light of such developments. 10 Table of Contents On October 1, 2007, the Taipei District Court found Mr. Shih-Jye Cheng not guilty, and on October 22, 2007, the prosecutor appealed the Taipei District Court decision at the Taiwan High Court. The Taiwan High Court held three pre-trial hearings in 2008 and may in its discretion request additional pre-trial hearings. No trial date has been set. As a result of prosecutor’s appeal, Mr. Cheng may still be convicted of one or more charges in the indictment. In addition, new evidence that leads to additional criminal charges and/or an adverse judgment against Mr. Cheng may be produced during the ongoing criminal investigation, and the special committee may make recommendations to our board in respect of Mr. Cheng’s positions with us or our subsidiaries. If Mr. Cheng is convicted, or in light of any new developments, the special committee recommends or our board of directors otherwise decides that it is in our best interests that Mr. Cheng no longer serves in all or some of his current capacities with us or our subsidiaries, or if Mr. Cheng resigns as a result of a final adverse judgment rendered against him by the court, or otherwise, the public perception of us may be seriously harmed and we would lose some or all of the services of Mr. Cheng. Mr. Cheng is very important to our current on-going business operations and our relationships with our customers and financing sources, and our loss of his services could materially and adversely affect our business, reputation and prospects and therefore cause our stock price to decline. In addition, if Mr. Cheng is convicted and sentenced to imprisonment, the ROC Financial Supervisory Commission may subject ChipMOS Taiwan or ThaiLin to certain restrictions on financing activities if Mr. Cheng continues to serve as the chairman or president of ChipMOS Taiwan or ThaiLin. We depend on key customers for a substantial portion of our net revenue and a loss of, or deterioration of the business from, or delayed payment by, any one of these customers could result in decreased net revenue and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on a small group of customers for a substantial portion of our business. In 2007, our five largest customers accounted for 71% of our net revenue. Our two largest customers, ProMOS and Spansion LLC, or Spansion, accounted for 29% and 16%, respectively, of our net revenue in 2007. ProMOS is an affiliate of Mosel, which, as of March 31, 2008, indirectly owned approximately 13.4% of our outstanding common shares. As part of our strategy, we have been focusing on increasing sales to key customers through long-term agreements, with less focus on our business with smaller customers and customers who do not place orders on a regular basis. As a result, we expect that we will increasingly depend on a relatively limited number of customers for a significant portion of our net revenue. Any adverse development in our key customers’ operations, competitive position or customer base could materially reduce our net revenue and adversely affect our business and profitability. Since new customers usually require us to pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process, if we lose any of our key customers, we may not be able to replace them in a timely manner. Also, semiconductor companies generally rely on service providers with whom they have established relationships to meet their testing and assembly needs for existing and future applications. If any of our key customers reduces, delays or cancels its orders, and if we are unable to attract new key customers or use our excess capacity to service our remaining customers, our net revenue could be reduced and our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We submit invoices at the time of shipment or delivery and generally require customers to pay within 60 days after the last day of the month during which the invoice was sent, except that we require ProMOS, our largest customer, to pay within 75 days. In addition, we extended the invoice settlement cycle for Spansion, our second largest customer, from 60 days to 90 days at their request, commencing in March 2008. Longer payment terms could adversely affect our account receivable turnovers, allowance for doubtful receivables and financial condition. Furthermore, in January 2008, at the request of ProMOS, we agreed to permit ProMOS to defer payment of aggregate service fees of NT$450 million (US$14 million) to February 15, 2009. These service fees were accounts payable to us as of December 31, 2007. The deferred service fees, which were paid in full by ProMOS in March and April 2008, bore interest at a rate of 4.69% per annum, and were recorded as long-term accounts receivables. See Note 18 to our audited consolidated financial statements. We cannot assure you that similar requests by our key customers due to their financial condition or other reasons will not occur in the future, and if we agree to such payment deferral that our financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Because of our high fixed costs, if we are unable to achieve relatively high capacity utilization rates, our earnings and profitability may be adversely affected. Our operations are characterized by a high proportion of fixed costs. For memory and mixed-signal semiconductor testing services, our fixed costs represented 69%, 70% and 75% of our total cost of revenue in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. For memory and mixed-signal semiconductor assembly services, our fixed costs represented 25%, 24% and 24% of our total cost of revenue in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. For LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductor testing and assembly services, our fixed costs represented 50%, 50% and 54% of our total cost of revenue in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Our profitability depends in part not only on absolute pricing levels for our services, but also on the utilization rates for our testing and assembly equipment, commonly referred to as “capacity utilization rates”. Increases or decreases in our capacity utilization rates can significantly affect our gross margins as unit costs generally decrease as the fixed costs are allocated over a larger number of units. In the past, our capacity utilization rates have fluctuated significantly as a result of the fluctuations in the market demand for semiconductors. If we fail to increase or maintain our capacity utilization rates, our earnings and profitability may be adversely affected. In addition, we have entered into various long-term assembly and testing services agreements with certain of our customers that may require us to incur significant capital expenditures. If we are unable to achieve high capacity utilization rates for the equipment purchased pursuant to these agreements, our gross margins may be materially and adversely affected. We are required to make significant capital expenditures in connection with our long-term customer agreements, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain sufficient funding or if our customers do not fulfill their purchase commitments. As part of our strategy, we have from time to time entered into long-term agreements with certain of our customers, and we intend to continue to do so in the future. Please see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Our Strategy—Focus on Increasing Sales through Long-Term Agreements with Key Customers.” These long-term agreements may require us to acquire new equipment or construct new facilities in Taiwan and as well as outside Taiwan. In order to meet the requirements of our customers under our long-term agreements, we may have to incur significant capital expenditures and ensure we have sufficient capacity. For example, we entered into an assembly and testing services agreement with Spansion in November 2005 pursuant to which ChipMOS Taiwan agreed to install equipment and reserve capacity for assembly and testing services for Spansion, and Spansion agreed to place purchase orders and compensate us for failure to sufficiently utilize equipment installed and qualified in accordance with the agreement. We incurred approximately US$7 million in 2007 in capital expenditures in connection with requirements under our current long-term customer agreements. Although we believe we have sufficient funding to meet our capital expenditures requirements in connection with our long-term customer agreements through the end of June 2009, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding thereafter. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding, we may not be able to meet our obligations under our long-term customer agreements, and our customer relationships, business reputation and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. A significant amount of capital expenditures related to long-term agreements may have to be incurred up front prior to generating any significant revenue under these agreements. As a result, our gross margins may be adversely affected whenever we enter into a new long-term agreement or implement a new statement of work under an existing agreement. Also, if the customers under our long-term agreements do not meet their contractual commitments or otherwise fail to make sufficient purchases for us to maintain a high capacity utilization rate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The testing and assembly process is complex and our production yields and customer relationships may suffer as a result of defects or malfunctions in our testing and assembly equipment and the introduction of new packages. Semiconductor testing and assembly are complex processes that require significant technological and process expertise. Semiconductor testing involves sophisticated testing equipment and computer software. We develop computer software to test our customers’ semiconductors. We also develop conversion software programs that enable us to test semiconductors on different types of testers. Similar to most software programs, these software programs are complex and may contain programming errors or “bugs”. In addition, the testing process is subject to human error by our employees who operate our testing equipment and related software. Any significant defect in our testing or conversion software, malfunction in our testing equipment or human error could reduce our production yields and damage our customer relationships. 12 Table of Contents The assembly process involves a number of steps, each of which must be completed with precision. Defective packages primarily result from: • contaminants in the manufacturing environment; • human error; • equipment malfunction; • defective raw materials; or • defective plating services. These and other factors have, from time to time, contributed to lower production yields. They may do so in the future, particularly as we expand our capacity or change our processing steps. In addition, to be competitive, we must continue to expand our offering of packages. Our production yields on new packages typically are significantly lower than our production yields on our more established packages. Our failure to maintain high standards or acceptable production yields, if significant and prolonged, could result in a loss of customers, increased costs of production, delays, substantial amounts of returned goods and related claims by customers. Further, to the extent our customers have set target production yields, we may be required to compensate our customers in a pre-agreed manner. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect our business reputation and result in reduced net revenue and profitability. Because of the highly cyclical nature of our industry, our capital requirements are difficult to plan. If we cannot obtain additional capital when we need it, we may not be able to maintain or increase our current growth rate and our profits will suffer. Our capital requirements are difficult to plan as our industry is highly cyclical and rapidly changing. To remain competitive, we will need capital to fund the expansion of our facilities as well as to fund our equipment purchases and research and development activities. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations and available credit facilities will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements under our existing arrangements through the end of June 2009, except for our commitments to invest in ChipMOS Shanghai, a wholly-owned subsidiary of our controlled consolidated subsidiary, MODERN MIND TECHNOLOGY LIMITED, or Modern Mind, and our potential obligation to repurchase the 2006 notes on September 29, 2008. See “— Our significant amount of indebtedness and interest expense will limit our cash flow and could adversely affect our operations,” “— If Modern Mind fails to invest an additional US$127.5 million into ChipMOS Shanghai by December 7, 2008, ChipMOS Shanghai’s business license may become automatically void and ChipMOS Shanghai may have to be liquidated, which could hurt our growth prospects and potential future profitability” and “— We are required to make significant capital expenditures in connection with our long-term customer agreements, and our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain sufficient funding or if our customers do not fulfill their purchase commitments.” In addition, future capacity expansions or market or other developments may require additional funding. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. They include: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by semiconductor testing and assembly companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in Taiwan and elsewhere. If we are unable to obtain funding in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, our growth prospects and potential future profitability will suffer. 13 Table of Contents If Modern Mind fails to invest an additional US$127.5 million into ChipMOS Shanghai by December 7, 2008, ChipMOS Shanghai’s business license may become automatically void and ChipMOS Shanghai may have to be liquidated, which could hurt our growth prospects and potential future profitability. Under applicable regulations of the People’s Republic of China, or PRC, and the terms of the articles of association of ChipMOS Shanghai, a wholly-owned subsidiary of our controlled consolidated subsidiary, Modern Mind, the business license of ChipMOS Shanghai may automatically become void and ChipMOS Shanghai may have to be liquidated if Modern Mind fails to invest an additional US$127.5 million by December 7, 2008, unless an additional extension is obtained from the relevant PRC regulatory authorities. We may not have sufficient financial resources to meet ChipMOS Shanghai’s investment commitments without obtaining additional financing. Even if we have the financial resources available, we may decide not to fund the investment if it would cause Mosel or Siliconware Precision to violate applicable ROC laws and regulations. See “— Risks Relating to Countries in Which We Conduct Operations—The investment in Mainland China by our controlled consolidated subsidiary, Modern Mind, through ChipMOS Shanghai, and the related contractual arrangements may result in Mosel or Siliconware Precision violating ROC laws governing investments in Mainland China by ROC companies or persons. Any sanctions on Mosel or Siliconware Precision as a result of any violation of ROC laws may cause Mosel or Siliconware Precision to decrease its ownership in us significantly or cause Mosel or Siliconware Precision to take other actions that may not be in the best interest of our other shareholders.” We understand that the relevant PRC regulatory authority is not legally obligated to, but in practice may, grant Modern Mind a grace period if it submits in advance an application for extending the deadline for making the remaining investments in ChipMOS Shanghai. In November 2007, Modern Mind was granted an extension of the investment deadline from December 6, 2007 to December 7, 2008 by the relevant PRC regulatory authority. In May 2008, ChipMOS Shanghai received a written consent-in-principle from the relevant PRC regulatory authority to decrease the registered capital of ChipMOS Shanghai from US$250 million to US$130 million in response to an application by us in March 2008. If we obtain the final approval for the decrease in the registered capital of ChipMOS Shanghai, Modern Mind’s obligation for contribution of the unpaid registered capital of ChipMOS Shanghai would be reduced from US$127.5 million to US$7.5 million. However, such final approval is subject to the relevant PRC regulatory authority’s further review of ChipMOS Shanghai’s financial condition. In making the final decision, the relevant PRC regulatory authority will also consider any objection received during a 45-day public comment period beginning May 23, 2008. Therefore, there can be no assurance that ChipMOS Shanghai will obtain such approval. If ChipMOS Shanghai is unable to obtain such approval and we fail to secure the funding for such capital requirement in a timely manner or on acceptable terms or if we are unwilling to provide funding to ChipMOS Shanghai through Modern Mind, ChipMOS Shanghai may lose its business license and may have to be liquidated and our growth prospects and potential future profitability may suffer. Disputes over intellectual property rights could be costly, deprive us of technologies necessary for us to stay competitive, render us unable to provide some of our services and reduce our opportunities to generate revenue. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies and to secure, on commercially acceptable terms, critical technologies that we do not own. We cannot assure you that we will be able to independently develop, or secure from any third party, the technologies required for our testing and assembly services. Our failure to successfully obtain these technologies may seriously harm our competitive position and render us unable to provide some of our services. Our ability to compete successfully also depends on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The semiconductor testing and assembly industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We may incur legal liabilities if we infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others. The situation is exacerbated by our inability to ascertain what patent applications have been filed in the United States or elsewhere until 14 Table of Contents they are granted. If any third party succeeds in its intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers, we could be required to: • discontinue using the disputed process technologies, which would prevent us from offering some of our testing and assembly services; • pay substantial monetary damages; • develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible; or • acquire licenses to the infringed technologies, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any one of these developments could impose substantial financial and administrative burdens on us and hinder our business. We are, from time to time, involved in litigation in respect of intellectual property rights. Any litigation, whether as plaintiff or defendant, is costly and diverts our resources. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or if litigation, regardless of the outcome, relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, our costs could be substantially increased to impact our margins. Any such litigation could also prevent us from testing and assembling particular products or using particular technologies, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenue. For more information on litigation in respect of intellectual property rights, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” If we are unable to obtain raw materials and other necessary inputs from our suppliers in a timely and cost-effective manner, our production schedules would be delayed and we may lose customers and growth opportunities and become less profitable. Our operations require us to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials at acceptable prices in a timely and cost-effective manner. We source most of our raw materials, including critical materials like leadframes, organic substrates, epoxy, gold wire and molding compound for assembly, and tapes for TCP/COF, from a limited group of suppliers. We purchase all of our materials on a purchase order basis and have no long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. From time to time, suppliers have extended lead times, increased the price or limited the supply of required materials to us because of market shortages. Consequently, we may, from time to time, experience difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of raw materials on a timely basis. In addition, from time to time, we may reject materials that do not meet our specifications, resulting in declines in output or yield. Although we typically maintain at least two suppliers for each key raw material, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and other supplies of an acceptable quality in the future. It usually takes from three to six months to switch from one supplier to another, depending on the complexity of the raw material. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and other necessary inputs in a timely and cost-effective manner, we may need to delay our production and delivery schedules, which may result in the loss of business and growth opportunities and could reduce our profitability. If we are unable to obtain additional testing and assembly equipment or facilities in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to fulfill our customers’ orders and may become less competitive and less profitable. The semiconductor testing and assembly business is capital intensive and requires significant investment in expensive equipment manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. The market for semiconductor testing and assembly equipment is characterized, from time to time, by intense demand, limited supply and long delivery cycles. Our operations and expansion plans depend on our ability to obtain equipment from a limited number of suppliers in a timely and cost-effective manner. We have no binding supply agreements with any of our suppliers and we acquire our testing and assembly equipment on a purchase order basis, which exposes us to changing market conditions and other significant risks. Semiconductor testing and assembly also requires us to operate sizeable facilities. If we are unable to obtain equipment or facilities in a timely manner, we may be unable to fulfill our customers’ orders, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations as well as our growth prospects. In addition, we have committed to purchase wafer sorting testers and probers as requested by Spansion under our assembly and testing services agreement, and any shortage of wafer sorting testers and probers may affect our ability to perform our obligations under the agreement. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage the expansion of our operations and resources effectively, our growth prospects may be limited and our future profitability may be reduced. We expect to continue to expand our operations and increase the number of our employees. Rapid expansion puts a strain on our managerial, technical, financial, operational and other resources. As a result of our expansion, we will need to implement additional operational and financial controls and hire and train additional personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so effectively in the future, and our failure to do so could jeopardize our expansion plans and seriously harm our operations. Bermuda law may be less protective of shareholder rights than laws of the United States or other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum of association, our bye-laws and laws governing corporations incorporated in Bermuda. Shareholder suits such as class actions (as these terms are understood with respect to corporations incorporated in the United States) are generally not available in Bermuda. Therefore, our shareholders may be less able under Bermuda law than they would be under the laws of the United States or other jurisdictions to protect their interests in connection with actions by our management, members of our board of directors or our controlling shareholder. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against us in the United States. We are incorporated in Bermuda and a majority of our directors and most of our officers are not residents of the United States. A substantial portion of our assets is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for our shareholders to serve notice of a lawsuit on us or our directors and officers within the United States. Because most of our assets are located outside the United States, it may be difficult for our shareholders to enforce in the United States judgments of United States courts. Appleby, our Bermuda counsel, has advised us that there is some uncertainty as to the enforcement in Bermuda, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of liabilities predicated upon United States federal securities laws. Investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted if we or our independent public registered accounting firm is unable to conclude that our internal control over our financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to the SEC’s reporting obligations, and beginning in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2006, we have been required by the SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 20-F that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, beginning in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, our independent public registered accounting firm must audit the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In October 2004, we engaged Ernst & Young to advise us on the internal control over financial reporting requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although our management concluded that our internal controls are effective in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, and our independent public registered accounting firm has rendered its opinion that we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria set forth in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Treadway Commission (COSO), our management may not conclude that our internal controls are effective in the future. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over our financial reporting are effective, our independent public registered accounting firm may disagree. If our independent public registered accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal controls over our financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent public registered accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, it may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue an adverse opinion in the future. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market prices of our common shares. 16 Table of Contents Any environmental claims or failure to comply with any present or future environmental regulations, or any new environmental regulations, may require us to spend additional funds, may impose significant liability on us for present, past or future actions, and may dramatically increase the cost of providing our services to our customers. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of chemical by-products of, and water used in, our assembly and gold bumping processes. Although we have not suffered material environmental claims in the past, a failure or a claim that we have failed to comply with any present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production or a cessation of our operations or negative publicity. New regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. Any failure on our part to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that may materially reduce our earnings. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign exchange losses. Currently, most of our net revenue is denominated in NT dollars. Our cost of revenue and operating expenses, on the other hand, are incurred in several currencies, including NT dollars, Japanese yen, US dollars and Renminbi, or RMB. In addition, a substantial portion of our capital expenditures, primarily for the purchase of testing and assembly equipment, has been, and is expected to continue to be, denominated in Japanese yen with much of the remainder in US dollars. We also have debt denominated in NT dollars, Japanese yen, US dollars and RMB. During the three months ended March 31, 2008, the US dollars depreciated against the NT dollar by 6.4%. Fluctuations in exchange rates, primarily among the US dollar, the NT dollar and the Japanese yen, will affect our costs and operating margins in NT dollar terms. In addition, these fluctuations could result in exchange losses and increased costs in NT dollar terms. Despite selective hedging and other techniques implemented by us, fluctuations in exchange rates have affected, and may continue to affect, our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in our acquisitions, investments and joint ventures, and may therefore be unable to implement fully our business strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we may make acquisitions and investments in companies and businesses or establish joint ventures. For example, on November 21, 2005, we merged Chantek into ChipMOS Taiwan, and on December 1, 2005, we merged ChipMOS Logic TECHNOLOGIES INC., or ChipMOS Logic, into ThaiLin Semiconductor Corp., or ThaiLin. In November 2004, we acquired certain testing and assembly equipment from First International Computer Testing and Assembly, or FICTA, as well as a 67.8% stake in First Semiconductor Technology Inc., which interest we transferred to First Semiconductor Technology Inc. in April 2005 for approximately US$2 million. In September 2007, we acquired all outstanding common shares of ChipMOS Taiwan through a share exchange transaction with ChipMOS Taiwan. The success of our acquisitions, investments and joint ventures depends on a number of factors, including: • our ability to identify suitable investment, acquisition or joint venture opportunities; • our ability to reach an agreement for an acquisition, investment or joint venture opportunity on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all; • the extent to which we are able to exercise control over the acquired or joint venture company; • our ability to align the economic, business or other strategic objectives and goals of the acquired company with those of our company; and • our ability to successfully integrate the acquired or joint venture company or business with our company. If we are unsuccessful in our acquisitions, investments and joint ventures, we may not be able to implement fully our business strategy to maintain or grow our business. 17 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel, and our revenue could decrease and our costs could increase if we lose their services. We depend on the continued service of our executive officers and skilled engineering, technical and other personnel. We will also be required to hire a substantially greater number of skilled employees in connection with our expansion plans. In particular, we depend on a number of skilled employees in connection with our LCD and other flat-panel display driver semiconductor testing and assembly services, and the competition for such employees in Taiwan and Mainland China is intense. We may not be able to either retain our present personnel or attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed. Moreover, we do not carry key person insurance for any of our executive officers nor do we have employment contracts with any of our executive officers or employees, and, as a result, none of our executive officers or employees is bound by any non-competition agreement. If we lose any of our key personnel, it could be very difficult to find and integrate replacement personnel, which could affect our ability to provide our services, resulting in reduced net revenue and earnings. In addition, we may need to increase employee compensation levels in order to retain our existing officers and employees and to attract additional personnel. As of March 31, 2008, 13% of the workforce at our facilities is foreign workers employed by us under work permits that are subject to government regulations on renewal and other terms. Consequently, if the regulations in Taiwan relating to the employment of foreign workers were to become significantly more restrictive or if we are otherwise unable to attract or retain these workers at reasonable cost, we may be unable to maintain or increase our level of services and may suffer reduced net revenue and earnings. Adverse publicity about our current or former directors, executive officers or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse publicity about our current or former directors, executive officers or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mr. Shih-Jye Cheng, our chairman and chief executive officer, was indicted by the Taipei District Prosecutor’s Office in December 2005. See “— The ongoing criminal proceeding involving Mr. Shih-Jye Cheng, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Hung-Chiu Hu, our former director, could have a material adverse effect on our business and cause our stock price to decline.” Moreover, two of our former directors, Messrs. Hung-Chiu Hu and Jwo-Yi Miao, are currently on criminal trial in the Taipei District Court, and another former director, Mr. Robert Ma Kam Fook, is under criminal investigation by the Taipei Prosecutor’s Office, in connection with alleged embezzlement during the 1990s at Pacific Electric Wire & Cable Co., Ltd., or Pacific Electric, a company incorporated in Taiwan and, until April 28, 2004, listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. Messrs. Hu and Miao have been indicted for offenses including breach of trust and violation of the Taiwan Commercial Accounting Law and the Taiwan Securities and Exchange Law. Mr. Ma is under investigation in connection with alleged money laundering activities related to the alleged offenses of Mr. Hu. Any adverse publicity from the investigation, trial or conviction of Messrs. Cheng, Hu, Miao or Ma could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation or cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Risk Relating to Our Relationship with Mosel ChipMOS Taiwan entered into certain transactions that, if determined to have constituted impermissible financings or purchases of assets or equity of Mosel under ROC law, could result in the resignations of members of our management. As a result, our business operations could be disrupted and the market price of our common shares could decline. ROC law limits the ability of a company incorporated in Taiwan to purchase any equity interest in companies, directly or indirectly, holding more than 50% of its issued and outstanding voting securities or registered capital or to provide loans or other financing to any company. ChipMOS Taiwan purchased NT$242 million worth of Mosel shares in 2002. Lee and Li, our ROC special counsel, has advised us that these purchases do not violate relevant ROC law that prohibits a subsidiary from buying or taking collateral in shares of companies holding, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of its issued and outstanding voting securities or registered capital, because Mosel’s indirect interest (calculated as the product of (i) Mosel’s percentage interest in ChipMOS Bermuda and (ii) ChipMOS Bermuda’s percentage interest in ChipMOS Taiwan) in ChipMOS Taiwan was less than 50% and ChipMOS Bermuda is incorporated outside of Taiwan. In 2005, ChipMOS Taiwan disposed of NT$84 million of Mosel shares, and 18 Table of Contents in August 2006, ChipMOS Taiwan further disposed of the remaining Mosel shares for approximately NT$30 million. ChipMOS Taiwan no longer owns any Mosel shares. Lee and Li has advised that under relevant ROC law, there is no similar restriction or limitation on a subsidiary’s disposal of its parent’s equity shares, if the previous acquisitions of such shares complied with relevant ROC law. See Notes 4 and 18 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 20-F for details. However, we understand that there is no applicable judicial precedent and there is some doubt as to how a court would rule if presented with the situation. If it were to be determined that any of the transactions described above constituted an impermissible financing or purchase of assets of Mosel by ChipMOS Taiwan or an impermissible purchase of Mosel’s equity by ChipMOS Taiwan, then ChipMOS Taiwan’s then chairman and any responsible officers would be jointly and severally liable to ChipMOS Taiwan for any losses suffered by ChipMOS Taiwan and may also be severally liable criminally for any breach of fiduciary duties that resulted in losses and damages suffered by ChipMOS Taiwan. Moreover, certain of these transactions may not have been in full compliance with ChipMOS Taiwan’s then applicable internal procedures due to the failure to have received an appropriate valuation opinion prior to entering into such purchases. The failure to comply fully with ChipMOS Taiwan’s then applicable internal procedures could constitute evidence of a failure by the then chairman of ChipMOS Taiwan and responsible officers to comply fully with their fiduciary duties, which could result in them being held criminally liable for any breach of fiduciary duties that resulted in losses and damages to ChipMOS Taiwan. If members of our current management were held to have breached their fiduciary duties or become criminally liable for the transactions described above, they may become obliged, whether under law or otherwise, to resign from their respective positions at ChipMOS Bermuda and our affiliates. Any loss of the services of these persons could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, and cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Risks Relating to Countries in Which We Conduct Operations The investment in Mainland China by our controlled consolidated subsidiary, Modern Mind, through ChipMOS Shanghai, and the related contractual arrangements may result in Mosel or Siliconware Precision violating ROC laws governing investments in Mainland China by ROC companies or persons. Any sanctions on Mosel or Siliconware Precision as a result of any violation of ROC laws may cause Mosel or Siliconware Precision to decrease its ownership in us significantly or cause Mosel or Siliconware Precision to take other actions that may not be in the best interest of our other shareholders. ROC laws and regulations generally prohibit investment by ROC entities in Mainland China in most aspects of the semiconductor testing and assembly industry. “Investment” is defined for this purpose to mean: • establishing a new company or enterprise in Mainland China; • increasing one’s equity interest in an existing company or enterprise in Mainland China; • acquiring shares of an existing company or enterprise in Mainland China (other than shares of publicly traded companies, acquisition of which is prohibited under current policy of the Investment Commission of the ROC Ministry of Economic Affairs, or the Investment Commission); or • establishing or expanding a branch office in Mainland China. We provide our services in Mainland China through ChipMOS Shanghai, a company incorporated under the laws of the PRC and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Modern Mind. Modern Mind is a company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands and is wholly-owned by Jesper Limited, a company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. While we do not own any equity interest in Modern Mind, we control Modern Mind through our ownership of a demand note issued by Modern Mind, convertible into common shares with a controlling equity interest in Modern Mind at a conversion rate of one common share of Modern Mind for every US$1.00 if repayment is not made when due. Under accounting principles that are applicable to us, Modern Mind is our controlled consolidated subsidiary. In addition, we have obtained from Jesper Limited an irrevocable option to acquire the common shares of Modern Mind then owned by Jesper Limited. Payment under the demand notes is fully and unconditionally 19 Table of Contents guaranteed by Jesper Limited and secured by a pledge agreement in respect of the entire equity interest in Modern Mind and ChipMOS Shanghai. We have also entered into other contractual arrangements with regard to ChipMOS Shanghai. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Our Structure and History—MODERN MIND TECHNOLOGY LIMITED and ChipMOS TECHNOLOGIES (Shanghai) LTD.” As the regulations described above are applicable only to entities organized within the ROC with respect to specified investments in Mainland China made by these entities, in the opinion of Lee and Li, our ROC special counsel, ChipMOS Bermuda’s indirect control over ChipMOS Shanghai through the ownership of demand notes issued by Modern Mind and the above contemplated contractual arrangements are in compliance with all existing ROC laws and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of ROC laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations governing the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that ROC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to the opinion of our ROC special counsel. In addition, under current applicable ROC regulations, if a company incorporated in the ROC has directly or indirectly invested in a company incorporated outside of the ROC and has controlling power over the management and operations of such non-ROC company, any investment by such non-ROC company in the PRC will constitute an investment by the controlling ROC company that is subject to ROC laws and regulations. As a result, for the purposes of these regulations, any investment (within the meaning of the ROC laws regulating investments in Mainland China) by ChipMOS Bermuda in ChipMOS Shanghai may be deemed to be an investment in Mainland China by Mosel and/or Siliconware Precision, if Mosel and/or Siliconware Precision is determined to have controlling power over our management and operations. While the regulations do not define what constitutes “controlling power over management and operations,” we understand from our ROC special counsel, Lee and Li, that, due to Mosel’s and/or Siliconware Precision’s equity interest in us and representatives on our board of directors, any conversion of the convertible notes or demand notes into shares of Modern Mind or other acquisition of shares of Modern Mind or ChipMOS Shanghai by ChipMOS Bermuda may be deemed an investment in Mainland China by Mosel and/or Siliconware Precision and require approval by the Investment Commission, and be subject to the prohibitions described in the first paragraph of this risk factor. As a result, so long as Mosel and/or Siliconware Precision is deemed to have controlling power over ChipMOS Bermuda’s management and operations, ChipMOS Bermuda may have to choose not to convert its convertible notes or demand notes into common shares of Modern Mind in order to avoid any violations by Mosel and/or Siliconware Precision under these regulations. As a result, any significant ownership of our common shares by Mosel and/or Siliconware Precision could materially and adversely restrict our ability and flexibility in structuring our investment in Mainland China and thereby affect our business prospects. If Mosel or Siliconware Precision were determined to be in violation of the applicable ROC laws and regulations governing investments in Mainland China, Mosel or Siliconware Precision may be ordered by the Investment Commission to cease such investment activities in Mainland China within a specified period of time and may be subject to a fine of between NT$50 thousand and NT$25 million. Mosel or Siliconware Precision could comply with the order of the Investment Commission either by causing us to terminate our investment activities in Mainland China or by taking actions that will cause Mosel or Siliconware Precision to cease having controlling power over our management and operations. If Mosel or Siliconware Precision does not comply with the order of the Investment Commission, the ROC government can impose on the chairman of Mosel or Siliconware Precision up to two years’ imprisonment, a fine of up to NT$25 million, or both. We cannot provide any assurance that any actions taken by Mosel or Siliconware Precision to address any orders by the Investment Commission will be in the best interest of our other shareholders. See “— Risks Relating to Our Relationship with Mosel—Potential conflicts of interest with our major shareholder and its affiliates may cause us to turn down orders from other customers.” Any termination or disposal of ChipMOS Shanghai’s operations in Mainland China could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or prospects, as well as the market price of our common shares. 20 Table of Contents ROC laws and regulations prohibit certain technology cooperation between ROC persons or entities with PRC persons or entities, and our current technology transfer arrangements between ChipMOS Bermuda and ChipMOS Shanghai may be found to be in violation of such prohibition, which may result in the termination of such technology transfer arrangements and therefore have a material adverse effect on the operations of ChipMOS Shanghai and our financial condition and results of operations. ROC laws and regulations prohibit any transfer of semiconductor testing and assembly technologies to any person or entity located in Mainland China, except for transfers involving certain low-end semiconductor testing and assembly technologies, such as conventional wire bond assembly technology, if certain requirements are met. The ROC Ministry of Economic Affairs has the ultimate administrative authority in interpreting such laws and regulations. Under a technology transfer agreement, dated August 1, 2002, ChipMOS Bermuda licensed to ChipMOS Shanghai certain testing and assembly-related technologies that were then controlled by ChipMOS Bermuda, which included technologies that were licensed to ChipMOS Bermuda by ChipMOS Taiwan. ChipMOS Bermuda also provided ChipMOS Taiwan with technical support and consulting services under this agreement. On April 7, 2004, ChipMOS Bermuda entered into an assignment agreement with ChipMOS Taiwan, pursuant to which ChipMOS Taiwan transferred all of the technologies it owned as of that date to ChipMOS Bermuda, including those previously licensed to ChipMOS Bermuda. On April 12, 2007, ChipMOS Bermuda entered into an assignment agreement with ChipMOS Taiwan, pursuant to which ChipMOS Taiwan assigned and transferred fifty percent of the title to ownership of and interest in all of the technologies and intellectual property it owned as of that date to ChipMOS Bermuda. ChipMOS Bermuda will continue to license such technologies to ChipMOS Shanghai pursuant to the above mentioned technology transfer agreement dated August 1, 2002. In the opinion of Lee and Li, our ROC special counsel, our technology transfer arrangements as described above are in compliance with all applicable ROC laws and regulations. However, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of those laws and regulations exist. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that ROC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to the opinion of our ROC special counsel. If ChipMOS Taiwan were determined to be in violation of applicable ROC laws and regulations governing technology cooperation with PRC persons and entities, ChipMOS Taiwan may be ordered by the Investment Commission to terminate such activity within a specified period of time and may be subject to a fine of between NT$50 thousand and NT$25 million. In addition, if ChipMOS Taiwan does not comply with the order of the Investment Commission, the ROC government can impose on the chairman of ChipMOS Taiwan up to two years’ imprisonment, a fine of up to NT$25 million, or both. Any termination of our current technology transfer to ChipMOS Shanghai could materially adversely affect our Mainland China operations and our financial condition, results of operations or prospects, as well as the market price of our common shares. Our current ownership structure and contractual arrangements with Jesper Limited, Modern Mind and ChipMOS Shanghai may not be effective in providing operational control of our Mainland China operations. We provide our services in Mainland China through ChipMOS Shanghai, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Modern Mind. While we do not own any equity interest in Modern Mind, we have a controlling interest in Modern Mind through our ownership of a demand note issued by Modern Mind. In 2004, we restructured our control of ChipMOS Shanghai and the way we provide our services in Mainland China through contractual arrangements with Jesper Limited, Modern Mind, and ChipMOS Shanghai. See “— The investment in Mainland China by our controlled consolidated subsidiary, Modern Mind, through ChipMOS Shanghai, and the related contractual arrangements may result in Mosel or Siliconware Precision violating ROC laws governing investments in Mainland China by ROC companies or persons. Any sanctions on Mosel or Siliconware Precision as a result of any violation of ROC laws may cause Mosel or Siliconware Precision to decrease its ownership in us significantly or cause Mosel or Siliconware Precision to take other actions that may not be in the best interest of our other shareholders” for further details on these contractual arrangements. These contractual arrangements, however, may not be as effective in providing control over our Mainland China operations as would direct ownership in ChipMOS Shanghai. Our ability to direct the operations we conduct through our subsidiaries and affiliated companies that we do not fully own may be limited by legal duties owed to other shareholders of such companies. Certain of our operations are conducted through companies that we do not fully own. For example, certain current consolidated operations are conducted through ThaiLin, our 38.2% subsidiary as of March 31, 2008, and ChipMOS Shanghai, in which we exercise control without holding any direct or indirect equity interest. We also conduct other activities through our affiliated entities. 21 Table of Contents In accordance with the various laws of the relevant jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries and affiliates are organized, each of our subsidiaries and affiliates and their respective directors owe various duties to their respective shareholders. As a result, the actions we wish our subsidiaries or affiliates to take could be in conflict with their or their directors’ legal duties owed to their other shareholders. When those conflicts arise, our ability to cause our subsidiaries or affiliates to take the action that we desire may be limited. Any future outbreak of avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other new or unusual diseases may materially affect our operations and business. An outbreak of a contagious disease such as avian influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome, for which there is inadequate treatment or no known cure or vaccine, may potentially result in a quarantine of infected employees and related persons, and adversely affect our operations at one or more of our facilities or the operations of our customers or suppliers. We cannot predict at this time the impact any future outbreak could have on our business and results of operations. We face substantial political risk associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to recent domestic political events and the strained relations between the Republic of China and the People’s Republic of China, that could negatively affect our business and the market price of our common shares. Our principal executive offices and most of our testing and assembly facilities are located in Taiwan. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common shares may be affected by changes in ROC governmental policies, as well as social instability and diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Taiwan which are outside our control. For example, the ROC has a unique international political status. The PRC government regards Taiwan as a renegade province and does not recognize the legitimacy of the ROC. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between the ROC and the PRC, relations have often been strained. In March 2005, the PRC government enacted an “Anti-Secession Law” codifying its policy of retaining the right to use military force to gain control over Taiwan, particularly under what it considers as highly provocative circumstances, such as a declaration of independence by Taiwan or the refusal by the ROC to accept the PRC’s stated “one China” policy. Past developments in relations between the ROC and the PRC have on occasion depressed the market prices of the securities of Taiwanese or Taiwan-related companies, including our own. Relations between the ROC and the PRC and other factors affecting military, political or economic conditions in Taiwan could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price and the liquidity of our common shares. We are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events disruptive to our business and operations. We currently provide most of our testing services through our facilities in the Hsinchu Industrial Park and the Hsinchu Science Park in Taiwan and the Shanghai Qingpu Industrial Zone, and all of our assembly services through our facilities in the Southern Taiwan Science Park in Taiwan and the Shanghai Qingpu Industrial Zone. Significant damage or other impediments to these facilities as a result of natural disasters, industrial strikes or industrial accidents could significantly increase our operating costs. Taiwan is particularly susceptible to earthquakes and typhoons. For example, in late 1999, Taiwan suffered severe earthquakes that caused significant property damage and loss of life, particularly in the central part of Taiwan. These earthquakes damaged production facilities and adversely affected the operations of many companies involved in the semiconductor and other industries. We experienced NT$1 million in damages to our machinery and equipment, NT$6 million in damages to our facilities, NT$1 million in damages to our inventory and five days of delay in our production schedule as a result of these earthquakes. In January and February 2008, certain parts of Mainland China, particularly in the southern, central and eastern regions, experienced reportedly the most severe winter weather in the country in recent decades, which resulted in significant and extensive damages to factories, power lines, homes, automobiles, crops and other properties, blackouts, transportation and communications disruptions and other losses in the affected areas. In addition, in May 2008, certain semiconductor companies with facilities in eastern Mainland China have experienced production disruption reportedly due to power stoppages caused by the failure of certain electricity 22 Table of Contents supply system in the area where the plant located. We cannot assure you that our facilities in the Shanghai Qingpu Industrial Zone will not be adversely affected by future snowstorms, power shortages, earthquake or other similar events. In addition, the production facilities of many of our suppliers and customers and providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services, including foundries, are located in Taiwan and Mainland China. If our customers are affected, it could result in a decline in the demand for our testing and assembly services. If our suppliers and providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services are affected, our production schedule could be interrupted or delayed. As a result, a major earthquake, snowstorm, other natural disaster or other disruptive event in Taiwan or Mainland China could severely disrupt the normal operation of business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure Our ability to receive dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries may be restricted by commercial, statutory and legal restrictions, and thereby materially adversely affect our ability to grow, fund investments, make acquisitions, pay dividends, repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness and otherwise fund and conduct our business. We are a holding company, and our most significant asset is our ownership interest in ChipMOS Taiwan. Although we control ChipMOS Shanghai through Modern Mind, we do not hold any equity interest in these entities due to ROC regulatory restrictions on investments in Mainland China. As long as we do not hold any equity interest in these entities, we are not entitled to any dividends distributed by these entities and our contractual arrangements may not effectively prevent these entities from declaring any dividends to their shareholders. Dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, if any, will be subject to taxation. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, repay intercompany loans from us or make other distributions to us is restricted by, among other things, the availability of funds and the terms of various credit arrangements entered into by our subsidiaries, as well as statutory and other legal restrictions. In addition, although there are currently no foreign exchange control regulations which restrict the ability of our subsidiaries located in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us, we cannot assure you that the relevant regulations will not be changed and that the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us will not be restricted in the future. A Taiwan company is generally not permitted to distribute dividends or to make any other distributions to shareholders for any year in which it did not have either earnings or retained earnings (excluding reserves). In addition, before distributing a dividend to shareholders following the end of a fiscal year, the company must recover any past losses, pay all outstanding taxes and set aside 10% of its annual net income (less prior years’ losses and outstanding taxes) as a legal reserve until the accumulated legal reserve equals its paid-in capital, and may set aside a special reserve. In addition, PRC law requires that our PRC-incorporated subsidiary only distributes dividends out of its net income, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, it is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax net income each year into its reserve fund until the accumulated legal reserve amounts to 50% of its registered capital. PRC-incorporated companies are further required to maintain a bonus and welfare fund at percentages determined at their sole discretion. The reserve fund and the bonus and welfare fund are not distributable as dividends. Moreover, a ROC-incorporated company is only able to declare dividends at its annual general meeting of shareholders, which cannot occur until after completion of its annual financial statements. Any limitation on dividend payments by our subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our ability to grow, fund investments, make acquisitions, pay dividends, repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. 23 Table of Contents Siliconware Precision and Mosel, our two largest shareholders, have significant influence over our company and may cause us to take actions that may not be, or refrain from taking actions that may be, in our best interest or the best interest of our other shareholders. Siliconware Precision and Mosel directly and indirectly owned approximately 14.5% and 13.4% of our common shares as of March 31, 2008, respectively. As the two largest shareholders that own more than 10% of our common shares respectively, Siliconware Precision and Mosel have significant influence over all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval and other corporate actions, such as: • election of directors; • timing and manner of dividend distributions; • approval of contracts between us and Siliconware Precision or Mosel or their respective affiliates, which could involve conflicts of interest; and • open market purchase programs or other purchases of our common shares. Siliconware Precision and Mosel’s substantial interests in our company could also: • delay, defer or prevent a change in who controls us; • discourage bids for our shares at a premium over the market price; and • adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In addition, one of our directors, Mr. Hsing-Ti Tuan, also acts as a director of ProMOS, a subsidiary of Mosel. As a result, conflicts of interest between Mr. Tuan’s duty to us and ProMOS and/or Mosel may arise. For an example of such a conflict of interest, see “— Risks Relating to Countries in Which We Conduct Operations—The investment in Mainland China by our controlled consolidated subsidiary, Modern Mind, through ChipMOS Shanghai, and the related contractual arrangements may result in Mosel or Siliconware Precision violating ROC laws governing investments in Mainland China by ROC companies or persons. Any sanctions on Mosel or Siliconware Precision as a result of any violation of ROC laws may cause Mosel or Siliconware Precision to decrease its ownership in us significantly or cause Mosel or Siliconware Precision to take other actions that may not be in the best interest of our other shareholders.” We cannot give any assurances that when conflicts of interest arise, Mr. Tuan will act in our interests, or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. Moreover, because Siliconware Precision and Mosel have potential power to direct or influence our corporate actions, we may be required to engage in transactions that may not be agreeable to our other shareholders or that may not be in the best interest of our other shareholders. Our ability to make further investments in ChipMOS Taiwan may be dependent on regulatory approvals. If ChipMOS Taiwan is unable to receive the equity financing it requires, its ability to grow and fund its operations may be materially adversely affected. As ChipMOS Taiwan is not a listed company, it generally depends on us to meet its equity financing requirements. Any capital contribution by us to ChipMOS Taiwan may require the approval of the relevant ROC authorities. For example, any capital contribution by us to ChipMOS Taiwan will require the approval of the authorities of the Science Park Administration. We may not be able to obtain any such approval in the future in a timely manner, or at all. If ChipMOS Taiwan is unable to receive the equity financing it requires, its ability to grow and fund its operations may be materially adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Shares Volatility in the price of our common shares may result in shareholder litigation that could in turn result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. The financial markets in the United States and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and market prices of technology companies have been and continue to be extremely volatile. Volatility in the price of our common shares may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our results of operations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, shareholders have frequently instituted securities class action litigation against that company. Litigation of this kind could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Certain provisions in our constitutive documents and in our severance agreements with our executive officers make the acquisition of us by another company more difficult and costly and therefore may delay, defer or prevent a change of control. Our bye-laws provide that our board of directors is divided into three classes of directors, each class to be re-elected only once every three years. As a result, shareholders would not generally be able to replace a majority of the directors until after two annual general meetings. In addition, any extraordinary corporate transaction such as a merger, amalgamation or consolidation, or a sale or transfer of all or substantially all of our assets, cannot be done without the approval of shareholders representing 70% of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to vote at such general meeting called to consider such extraordinary transaction. These provisions in our constitutive documents may increase the difficulty faced by a party which seeks to acquire control of our board or to approve an extraordinary transaction. In 2007, we entered into change in control severance agreements with certain executive officers pursuant to which we agreed to pay certain severance payments if a change in control event (as defined in the change in control severance agreements) occurs and the employment of such executive officer is terminated by our company other than for cause or by such executive officer for good reasons within two years following the occurrence of the change in control event. These change in control agreements may increase the cost of a party seeking to effect a change in control of our company. Future sales, pledge or issuance of common shares by us or our current shareholders could depress our share price and you may suffer dilution. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market, the perception that future sales may occur, or the pledge of a substantial portion of our common shares could depress the prevailing market price of our shares. As of March 31, 2008, we had approximately 84 million shares outstanding, including approximately 48 million shares of which are freely tradable within the United States without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act. Siliconware Precision, Mosel, Trivium Capital Management LLC, or Trivium Capital, Powertech Technology and ProMOS, our five largest shareholders, owned 12,174,998, 11,194,644, 9,618,815, 4,060,633 and 4,060,633 common shares as of March 31, 2008, respectively, representing in the aggregate 49.0% of our outstanding common shares as of March 31, 2008. As of March 31, 2008, we had US$71 million aggregate principal amount of the 2004 notes outstanding (including US$7 million aggregate principal amount held by ThaiLin, our 38.2% owned consolidated subsidiary) and US$99 million aggregate principal amount of the 2006 notes outstanding. The 2004 notes and the 2006 notes are convertible into our common shares at the conversion price of US$6.28 per share and US$6.85 per share, respectively, in each case subject to certain adjustments. Mosel in the past decided to sell a significant portion of our common shares in order to raise funds. On December 9, 2005, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form F-3, pursuant to which we may offer up to approximately US$194 million of additional common shares or debt securities which may be convertible into common shares. We have included 8,000,000 common shares held by Mosel in our shelf registration statement filed on December 9, 2005. In June 2006, Mosel sold 6,956,522 common shares through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Giant Haven, under our shelf registration statement and, as a result, the number of remaining common shares held by Mosel included in our shelf registration statement is 1,043,478. In addition, in March 2007, we issued 12,174,998 common shares pursuant to a share purchase and subscription agreement with ChipMOS Taiwan and Siliconware Precision, and we entered into a registration rights agreement in March 2007 with Siliconware Precision, pursuant to which we granted to Siliconware Precision certain rights to require us to register these common shares for sale under the Securities Act. In July 2007, Mosel sold 8,121,266 common shares through Giant Haven to ProMOS and Powertech Technology, and we then granted Giant Haven, ProMOS and Powertech Technology certain rights to require us to register these common shares for sale under the Securities Act. Furthermore, Siliconware Precision, Mosel, ProMOS and Powertech Technology may be able to sell, in any three-month period, such number of 25 Table of Contents common shares up to the greater of (i) one percent of our outstanding common shares or (ii) the average weekly trading volume of our common shares as reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market during the four calendar weeks prior to any such sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. On September 14, 2007, ChipMOS Bermuda issued 604,124 common shares pursuant to a share exchange transaction with ChipMOS Taiwan, under which ChipMOS Bermuda exchanged one common share for every 8.4 ChipMOS Taiwan shares then outstanding. Following the completion of the share exchange transaction, ChipMOS Taiwan became our wholly-owned subsidiary. We plan to issue, from time to time, additional shares in connection with employee compensation and to finance possible future capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Share Option Plan and Share Appreciation Rights Plan” for a discussion of the Share Option Plan that we have adopted for the benefit of all of our directors, officers, employees and consultants. The issuance of additional shares may have a dilutive effect on other shareholders and may cause the price of our common shares to decrease. In addition, the indictment relating to Mr. Hung-Chiu Hu alleges that embezzled funds were used in investments by PacMOS, which, as of March 31, 2008, owned 3.8% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, PacMOS may be ordered by relevant authorities to dispose of its investments made with any embezzled funds, which may result in a sale of our shares by PacMOS. A sale of a significant number of our shares by PacMOS or our other current shareholders could depress our share price. Conversion of our outstanding convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders and future issuances of our securities could dilute your ownership. In November 2004, we issued US$85 million of the 2004 notes, which bear interest at an annual rate of 1.75%. In December 2004, we repurchased and cancelled US$699,000 of the 2004 notes. As of March 31, 2008, the 2004 notes are convertible into our common shares at a conversion price of US$6.28, which was adjusted from the initial conversion price of US$7.85 pursuant to the terms of the convertible notes. In September 2006, we issued US$100 million of the 2006 notes, which bear interest at an annual rate of 3.375% and have an initial conversion price of US$6.85 per share, subject to certain adjustments. The conversion of some or all of these convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common shares issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares. In addition, the existence of these convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common shares. In October 2006, we made an induced conversion offer to the holders of our 2004 notes pursuant to which we offered to each holder, as incentive for such holder to convert its 2004 notes, a cash payment equal to 7% of the principal amount of the 2004 notes converted by such holder. Pursuant to the induced conversion offer, noteholders converted US$7,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the 2004 notes into 1,114,649 common shares and received from us aggregate cash consideration of approximately US$490,000. On November 3, 2006, we repurchased US$6,300,000 in aggregate principal amount of the 2004 notes pursuant to the noteholders’ put option under the indenture. In November 2007, ThaiLin, our 38.2% owned consolidated subsidiary, purchased US$7 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2004 note. In addition, on November 29, 2007, we repurchased US$1,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the 2006 notes. Under the indenture, each noteholder of the 2006 notes will have the right to require us to repurchase its notes on September 29, 2008 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. As of March 31, 2008, no other conversion of these convertible notes had taken place. 