Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information before deciding to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We have attempted to identify below the major factors that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results, but we cannot assure you that we have identified all of those factors. If any of the following risks actually happen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Company We have incurred net losses to date and must raise additional capital by the end of the second quarter of 2012 in order to continue to operate. We have incurred net losses in each year of operation since our inception in July 2000. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2010 was $56.4 million and our cumulative net loss applicable to common stockholders as of December 31, 2010 was $56.7 million. Based on $5.9 million of unrestricted cash as of December 31, 2010 and $2.6 million received subsequent to year end, we believe that we have sufficient cash to meet our financial and operating obligations into the second half of 2012. We will require more cash to fund our operations and believe that we will be able to obtain additional financing. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such new financing or, if available, that such financing will be obtainable on terms favorable to us. We have taken steps to reduce our administrative and clinical spending; however, we must raise additional cash by the end of the second quarter of 2012, or we may not be able to continue operations and may be forced to seek bankruptcy protection. We may raise capital through public or private equity financings, partnerships, debt financings, bank borrowings, or other sources. Additional funding may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not otherwise available, we may need to significantly curtail operations. To obtain additional funding, we may need to enter into arrangements that require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies, products and/or potential markets. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, or securities 10 Table of Contents convertible into equity, our equity holders may experience dilution of their proportionate ownership of the company. We are a development stage company and have not yet generated any revenue. We are a development stage company and have not generated any revenues to date. We granted PROCAPS, S.A. exclusive rights to market and sell DAVANAT® to treat cancer patients in Colombia, South America, which we refer to as the PROCAPS Channel. In addition, there is no assurance that we will obtain FDA approval of DAVANAT® or any other of our products in development and, even if we do so, that we will generate revenue sufficient to become profitable. Our failure to generate revenue and profit would likely lead to loss of your investment. We have one drug candidate in clinical trials and results are uncertain. DAVANAT®, our lead product candidate, is in human clinical trials. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and may not be successful. They involve the testing of potential therapeutic agents, or effective treatments, in humans, typically in three phases, to determine the safety and efficacy of the product candidates necessary for an approved drug. Many products in human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics. Even though DAVANAT® progressed successfully through Phase I and Phase II human trials, it may fail in Phase III trials or in later stages of development. We will engage others to conduct our clinical trials, including clinical research organizations and, possibly, government-sponsored agencies. These trials may not start or be completed as we forecast, or may not achieve desired results. We may be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Even if DAVANAT® and other anticipated product candidates achieve positive results in clinical trials, we may be unable to commercialize them. Although we anticipate receipt of regulatory approvals in connection with the PROCAPS Channel, there is no assurance that such approvals will be obtained. Our general inability to commercialize our products would substantially impair the viability of the Company. Performance milestones may not occur as contemplated by the agreement with PROCAPS S.A. As our arrangement with PROCAPS is a collaboration, and because collaborations take place over time, milestone and performance risks are inherent and so performance milestones may not occur as contemplated by our agreement. There are risks associated with our reliance on third parties to design trial protocols, arrange for and monitor the clinical trials, and collect and analyze data. As we develop products eligible for clinical trials, including DAVANAT®, we will contract with independent parties to assist us in the design of the trial protocols, arrange for and monitor the clinical trials, collect data and analyze data. In addition, certain clinical trials for our products may be conducted by government-sponsored agencies and will be dependent on governmental participation and funding. Our dependence on independent parties and clinical sites involves risks including reduced control over the timing and other aspects of our clinical trials. There are risks associated with our reliance on third parties for manufacturing, marketing, sales, managed care and distribution infrastructure and channels. We do not have, and do not now intend to develop, facilities for the manufacture of any of our products for clinical or commercial production. At this time, we are not a party to any long-term agreement with any of our suppliers, and accordingly, we have our products manufactured on a purchase-order basis from one of two 11 Table of Contents primary suppliers. We are developing relationships with manufacturers and will enter into collaborative arrangements with licensees or have others manufacture our products on a contract basis. We expect to depend on such collaborators to supply us with products manufactured in compliance with standards imposed by the FDA and foreign regulators. We have limited experience in marketing, sales or distribution, and we do not intend to develop a sales and marketing infrastructure to commercialize our pharmaceutical products. If we develop commercial products, we will need to rely on licensees, collaborators, joint venture partners or independent distributors to market and sell those products. Thus, we expect that we will be required to enter into agreements with commercial partners to engage in sales, marketing and distribution efforts around our products in development. We may be unable to establish or maintain third-party relationships on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. In addition, these third parties may have similar or more established relationships with our competitors. If we do not enter into relationships with third parties for the sales and marketing of our proposed products, we will need to develop our own sales and marketing capabilities. Even if engaged, these distributors may: • fail to satisfy financial or contractual obligations to us; • fail to adequately market our products; • cease operations with little or no notice to us; or • offer, design, manufacture or promote competing formulations or products. If we fail to develop sales, managed care, marketing and distribution channels, we would experience delays in generating sales and incur increased costs, which would harm our financial results. Our lack of operating experience may cause us difficulty in managing our growth. We have limited experience in manufacturing or procuring products in commercial quantities, conducting other later-stage phases of the regulatory approval process, selling pharmaceutical products, or negotiating, establishing and maintaining strategic relationships. Although we have engaged a number of consultants to assist us, any additional growth may require us to expand our management, operational and financial systems and controls. If we are unable to do so, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. If rapid growth occurs, it may strain our managerial, operational and financial resources. We are exposed to product liability, pre-clinical and clinical liability risks which could place a financial burden upon us, should we be sued, because we do not currently have product liability insurance above and beyond our general insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability and other liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical formulations and products. Claims may be asserted against us. In addition, the use in our clinical trials of pharmaceutical formulations and products that our potential collaborators may develop and the subsequent sale of these formulations or products by us or our potential collaborators may cause us to bear a portion of or all product liability risks. A successful liability claim or series of claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we do not currently have any FDA-approved products or formulations, we do not currently have any product liability insurance covering commercialized products. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, or such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against our potential liabilities. Furthermore, our current and potential partners with whom we have collaborative agreements or our future licensees may not be willing to indemnify us against these types of liabilities and may not themselves be sufficiently insured or have sufficient liquidity to satisfy any product 12 Table of Contents liability claims. Claims or losses in excess of any product liability insurance coverage that may be obtained by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If users of our proposed products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, market acceptance of our proposed products may be limited and we may not achieve revenues. The continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners and the availability of capital. In other words, our ability to commercialize our proposed products will depend in large part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our proposed formulations, products and related treatments are obtained by the health care providers of these products and treatments. At this time we cannot predict the precise impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Act of 2010, the comprehensive health care reform legislation passed by Congress in March 2010. It is possible that the adoption of this legislation could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on key individuals to develop our products and pursue collaborations. We are highly dependent on Anatole Klyosov, Ph.D., D.Sc. and Peter G. Traber, M.D. Dr. Klyosov is our Chief Scientist and has scientific technical or other business expertise and experience that is critical to our success. Dr. Traber is our interim Chief Medical Officer who, among other things, leads our FDA Phase III colorectal cancer trial for DAVANAT® as well as our overall FDA approval process. Effective March 17, 2011 Dr. Traber will become our Chief Executive Officer as well as our Chief Medical Officer. The loss of Dr. Klyosov or Dr. Traber, or failure to attract or retain other key personnel, could prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products and core technologies. We are involved in litigation with Summer Street Research Partners. On January 30, 2008, Custom Equity Research, Incorporated (d/b/a Summer Street Research Partners), or Summer Street, filed a lawsuit against us, alleging claims for breach of contract, declaratory judgment and unjust enrichment arising out of an engagement letter under which Summer Street agreed to provide institutional investment placement services. Discovery is currently underway. A trial date has been set for November 8, 2011. We believe the lawsuit is without merit and intends to contest it vigorously. We received a letter dated January 12, 2011 from Maxim Group, or Maxim, which has acted as our placement agent. The letter advises that Maxim has been named as a respondent in a FINRA arbitration matter commenced by Summer Street arising out of the Company’s termination of its relationship with Summer Street and its engagement of Maxim as its placement agent. Our placement agent agreement with Maxim contains an indemnification provision that requires us to indemnify Maxim in connection with FINRA arbitration. We believe the claims asserted by Summer Street in the arbitration are without merit. Risks Related to the Drug Development Industry We will need regulatory approvals to commercialize our products. We are required to obtain approval (i) from the FDA in order to sell our products in the U.S. and (ii) from foreign regulatory authorities in order to sell our products in other countries. The FDA’s review and approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Extensive pre-clinical and clinical data and supporting information must be submitted to the FDA for each indication for each product candidate in order to secure FDA approval. Before receiving FDA clearance to market our proposed products, we will have to demonstrate that our products are safe on the patient population and effective for the diseases that are to be treated. Clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of drugs are subject to the rigorous testing and approval process of the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal, state and 13 Table of Contents foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacture, labeling, advertising, distribution and promotion of drugs and medical devices. As a result, regulatory approvals can take a number of years or longer to accomplish and require the expenditure of substantial financial, managerial and other resources. The FDA could reject an application or require us to conduct additional clinical or other studies as part of the regulatory review process. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain FDA approvals would delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates, which would prevent, defer or decrease our receipt of revenues. In addition, if we receive initial regulatory approval, our product candidates will be subject to extensive and rigorous ongoing domestic and foreign government regulation. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory clearances. Data already obtained, or in the future obtained, from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials do not necessarily predict the results that will be obtained from later pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. Moreover, pre-clinical and clinical data is susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a proposed formulation or product under development could delay or prevent regulatory clearance of the potential drug. The resulting delays to commercialization could materially harm our business. Our clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient levels of safety and efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our drugs, and thus our proposed drugs may not be approved for marketing. Our competitive position depends on protection of our intellectual property. Development and protection of our intellectual property are critical to our business. All of our intellectual property, patented or otherwise, has been invented and/or developed by employees of the Company. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to practice our technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products or processes in the U.S. and other countries, protect trade secrets, and prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. Since patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy for at least portions of their pendency periods (published on U.S. patent issuance or, if earlier, 18 months from earliest filing date for most applications) and since other publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we are the first to make the inventions to be covered by our patent applications. The patent position of biopharmaceutical firms generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. Some or all of our patent applications may not issue as patents, or the claims of any issued patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies or products. In addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged and subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Patent litigation is widespread in the biotechnology industry and could harm our business. Litigation might be necessary to protect our patent position or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights, and we may not have the required resources to pursue such litigation or to protect our patent rights. Although we require our scientific and technical employees and consultants to enter into broad assignment of inventions agreements, and all of our employees, consultants and corporate partners with access to proprietary information to enter into confidentiality agreements, these agreements may not be honored. Products we develop could be subject to infringement claims asserted by others. We cannot assure that products based on our patents or intellectual property will not be challenged by a third party claiming infringement of its proprietary rights. If we were not able to successfully defend our patents 14 Table of Contents or other intellectual property, we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement. We face intense competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We face direct competition from U.S. and foreign companies focusing on pharmaceutical products, which are rapidly evolving. Our competitors include major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions. Many of these competitors have greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs and more effective marketing and manufacturing organizations, than we do. In addition, academic and government institutions are increasingly likely to enter into exclusive licensing agreements with commercial enterprises, including our competitors, to market commercial products based on technology developed at such institutions. Our competitors may succeed in developing or licensing technologies and products that are more effective, or succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for product candidates before we do. Acquisitions of, or investments in, competing pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies by large corporations could increase such competitors’ financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources. The market for our proposed products is rapidly changing and competitive, and new drugs and new treatments which may be developed by others could impair our ability to maintain and grow our business and remain competitive. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Developments by others may render our proposed products noncompetitive or obsolete, or we may be unable to keep pace with technological developments or other market factors. Technological competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase. As a pre-revenue company engaged in the development of drug technologies, our resources are limited and we may experience technical challenges inherent in such technologies. Competitors have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competition. Some of these technologies may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing similar therapeutic effects compared to our proposed products. Our competitors may develop drugs that are safer, more effective or less costly than our proposed products and, therefore, present a serious competitive threat to us. The potential widespread acceptance of therapies that are alternatives to ours may limit market acceptance of our proposed products, even if commercialized. Many of our targeted diseases and conditions can also be treated by other medication. These treatments may be widely accepted in medical communities and have a longer history of use. The established use of these competitive drugs may limit the potential for our technologies, formulations and products to receive widespread acceptance if commercialized. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Stock prices for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are volatile. The market price for securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically has been highly volatile, and the market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Fluctuations in the trading price or liquidity of our common stock may adversely affect, among other things, the interest in our stock by purchasers on the open market and, generally, our ability to raise capital. 15 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors has the power to designate, without shareholder approval, a series of preferred stock the shares of which could be senior to the common stock and be entitled to conversion or voting rights that adversely affect the holders of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes issuance of capital stock including 20,000,000 undesignated shares, and empowers our Board of Directors to prescribe by resolution and without shareholder approval a class or series of undesignated shares, including the number of shares in the class or series and the voting powers, designations, rights, preferences, restrictions and the relative rights in each such class or series. Accordingly, we may authorize the issuance of additional shares or series of preferred stock that would rank senior to the shares of common stock as to dividend rights or rights upon our liquidation, winding-up, or dissolution. We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of our shareholders, to issue all or a part of our authorized but unissued shares. Such stock issuances could be made at a price that reflects a discount or a premium from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise capital, we may need to issue securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for a significant amount of our common stock. These issuances would dilute the percentage ownership interest, which would have the effect of reducing your influence on matters on which our shareholders vote, and might dilute the book value of our common stock. You may incur additional dilution if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options, or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. One investor, by virtue of ownership of our securities and related rights, may be able to control the Company. The 10X Fund, L.P., or 10X Fund, owns all of our issued and outstanding Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B-2 Convertible Preferred Stock, collectively the Series B Preferred Stock, which are convertible into 12 million shares of our common stock. The 10X Fund owns related warrants exercisable to purchase an aggregate of 36 million shares of our common stock. We have issued approximately 2.1 million shares of our common stock as dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock. In addition, James C. Czirr, a general partner of the 10X Fund and Executive Chairman of our Board of Directors, owns or controls approximately 5 million shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, on a fully diluted basis, assuming conversion of all Series B Preferred Stock and exercise of all the related warrants, the 10X Fund would own approximately 44.8% of our then outstanding shares of common stock, which together with Mr. Czirr’s shares of our common stock, would constitute approximately 49.2% of the then outstanding shares. As holder of Series B Preferred Stock, the 10X Fund is entitled to elect two directors in a separate class vote, nominate three directors for election by all shares entitled to vote, and provide or withhold consent to a range of fundamental corporate action we may wish to undertake, such as recapitalization, sale of the company, and other matters. Such concentration of stock ownership and related rights could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing corporate events that our other security holders may desire or consider beneficial to the company. As a “thinly-traded” stock, large sales can place downward pressure on our stock price. Our common stock, despite certain increases of trading volume from time to time, experiences periods when it could be considered “thinly-traded.” Finance transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current shareholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a shareholder who desires to sell a large number of shares of common stock to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 