ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common shares. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks that we are not presently aware of, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address these risks or that other unknown risks exist that may affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business Our success depends on the development and operation of the Livengood Gold Project, which is our only project and which, as contemplated in the September 4, 2013 Feasibility Study, is not commercially viable at current gold prices. Our only property at this time is our Livengood Gold Project, which is in the exploration stage. We have issued a Feasibility Study on the Livengood Gold Project which indicates that the Project generates a minimal positive return at a gold price of $1,500 per ounce. The price of gold is $1,344 per ounce as of March 10, 2014, and the Project as contemplated in the Feasibility Study is not commercially viable at current gold prices. While management is exploring opportunities identified in the Feasibility Study, as well as those developed by the Company subsequent to the Feasibility Study, for optimization and reducing Project costs, there can be no assurance that any such efforts will be successful or that the price of gold will increase sufficiently to warrant a decision to develop the Project. For other risks related to the Project, please see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under “Livengood Gold Project — Feasibility Study Results - Project Execution Risks.” If the Project is not developed, or if the Project is otherwise subject to deterioration, destruction or significant delay, we may never generate revenues and our shareholders may lose most 11 Table of Contents or all of their investment in our common shares. We have a history of losses and expect to continue to incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses and have had no revenue from operations since inception, and we expect to continue to incur losses in the future. We have not commenced commercial production on the Livengood Gold Project and we have no other mineral properties. We have no revenues from operations, and we anticipate we will have no operating revenues and will continue to incur operating losses until such time as we place the Livengood Gold Project into production and such project generates sufficient revenues to fund continuing operations. The Livengood Gold Project is currently in the exploration stage. The Project, as contemplated in the Feasibility Study, is not commercially viable at current gold prices. Our activities may not result in profitable mining operations and we may not succeed in establishing mining operations or profitably producing metals at the Livengood Gold Project. We are an exploration stage company and have no history producing metals from our properties. Any future revenues and profits are uncertain. We have no history of mining or refining any mineral products or metals and the Livengood Gold Project is not currently producing. There can be no assurance that the Livengood Gold Project will be successfully placed into production, produce minerals in commercial quantities or otherwise generate operating earnings. Advancing properties from the exploration stage into development and commercial production requires significant capital and time and will be subject to further feasibility studies, permitting requirements and construction of the mine, processing plants, roads and related works and infrastructure. We will continue to incur losses until our mining activities successfully reach commercial production levels and generate sufficient revenue to fund continuing operations. There is no certainty that we will produce revenue from any source, operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the future. If we are unable to generate revenues or profits, our shareholders might not be able to realize returns on their investment in our common shares. We will require additional financing to fund exploration and, if warranted, development and production. Failure to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation and could cast uncertainty on our ability to continue as a going concern. Advancing properties from exploration into the development stage requires significant capital and time, and successful commercial production from a property, if any, will be subject to completing feasibility studies, permitting and construction of the mine, processing plants, roads, and other related works and infrastructure. The Company does not presently have sufficient financial resources or a source of operating cash flow to undertake by itself to complete the permitting process and, if a production decision is made, the construction of a mine at the Livengood Gold Project. The completion of the permitting process, and any construction of a mine at the Livengood Gold Project following the making of a production decision, will therefore depend upon the Company’s ability to obtain financing through the sale of its equity securities, enter into a joint venture relationship, secure significant debt financing or find alternative means of financing. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining the required financing on favorable terms or at all. Even if the results of exploration are encouraging, the Company may not be able to obtain sufficient financing to conduct the further exploration that may be necessary to determine whether or not a commercially mineable deposit exists. Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend upon a number of factors, including prevailing capital market conditions, the status of the national and worldwide economy, our business performance and the price of gold and other precious metals. Capital markets worldwide have been adversely affected in recent years by substantial losses by financial institutions. Failure to obtain such additional financing on favorable terms or at all could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further mining operations or exploration and development and the possible partial or total loss of our interests in the Livengood Gold Project. We have not yet identified, and may never identify, commercially viable reserves that would generate revenues. We are considered an exploration stage company and will continue to be until we identify commercially viable reserves on our properties and develop our properties. We have no producing properties and have never generated 12 Table of Contents any revenue from our operations. We have issued a Feasibility Study on the Livengood Gold Project. Using the trailing three year gold price of $1,500 per ounce, the Project generates a minimal positive return; however, the Project is not commercially viable at current gold prices. The majority of exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore. Further exploration and substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves through drilling and metallurgical and other testing techniques, determine metal content and metallurgical recovery processes to extract metal from the ore, and construct, renovate or expand mining and processing facilities. No assurance can be given that any level of recovery of ore reserves will be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercial mineable ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. If we are not able to identify commercially viable mineral deposits or profitably extract minerals from such deposits, our business would be materially adversely affected and our shareholders could lose all or a substantial portion of their investment. Resource exploration is a highly speculative business, and certain inherent exploration risks could have a negative effect on our business. Our long-term success depends on our ability to identify mineral deposits on the Livengood Gold Project and other properties we may acquire, if any, that can then be developed into commercially viable mining operations. Resource exploration is a highly speculative business and involves a high degree of risk, including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting both from the failure to discover mineral deposits and from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in size and grade at the then prevailing market conditions to return a profit from production. Substantial expenditures are required to establish proven and probable mineral reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal, and to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. Although substantial benefits may be derived from the discovery of a major mineralized deposit, no assurance can be given that minerals will be discovered in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. The marketability of minerals which may be acquired or discovered by the Company will be affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company and cannot be accurately predicted. These factors include market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. Mineral resource estimates are based on interpretation and assumptions and could be inaccurate or yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated. Any material changes in these estimates will affect the economic viability of placing a property into production. The mineral resource estimates included in our reports are estimates only and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of minerals will in fact be realized or that an identified reserve or resource will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) deposit which can be legally and economically exploited. The estimating of mineral resources and mineral reserves is a subjective process and the accuracy of mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates is a function of the quantity and quality of available data, the accuracy of statistical computations, and the assumptions used and judgments made in interpreting available engineering and geological information. There is significant uncertainty in any mineral resource or mineral reserve estimate and the actual deposits encountered and the economic viability of a deposit may differ materially from the Company’s estimates. In addition, the grade of mineralization ultimately mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results and such differences could be material. Because we have not commenced actual production, mineralization estimates, including mineral resource estimates, for the Livengood Gold Project may require adjustments or downward revisions. Until ore is actually mined and processed, mineral resources, mineral reserves and grades of mineralization must be considered as estimates only. The grade of ore ultimately mined, if any, may differ from that indicated by any pre-feasibility or definitive feasibility studies and drill results. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale operations. Extended declines in market prices for gold may render portions or all of our mineral resources uneconomic and result in reduced reported mineralization or adversely affect the commercial viability determinations reached by us. Material changes in estimates of mineralization, grades, stripping ratios, recovery 13 Table of Contents rates or of our ability to extract such mineralization may affect the economic viability of projects and the value of our Livengood Gold Project. The estimated resources described in our reports should not be interpreted as assurances of mine life or of the profitability of future operations. Estimated mineral resources and mineral reserves may have to be re-estimated based on changes in applicable commodity prices, further exploration or development activity or actual production experience. This could materially and adversely affect estimates of the volume or grade of mineralization, estimated recovery rates or other important factors that influence mineral resource or mineral reserve estimates. Market price fluctuations for gold, silver or base metals, increased production costs or reduced recovery rates or other factors may render any particular reserves uneconomical or unprofitable to develop at a particular site or sites. A reduction in estimated reserves could require material write downs in investment in the affected mining property and increased amortization, reclamation and closure charges. Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. There are differences in U.S. and Canadian practices for reporting reserves and resources. Our reserve and resource estimates are not directly comparable to those made in filings subject to SEC reporting and disclosure requirements, as we generally report reserves and resources in accordance with Canadian practices. These practices are different from the practices used to report reserve and resource estimates in reports and other materials filed with the SEC. It is Canadian practice to report measured, indicated and inferred mineral resources (and in certain circumstances, deposits that are not measured, indicated or inferred mineral resources but that are targeted for further exploration), which are generally not permitted in disclosure filed with the SEC by U.S. issuers. In the United States, mineralization may not be classified as a “reserve” unless the determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of measured, indicated or inferred mineral resources will ever be converted into reserves. Further, “inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and as to whether they can be mined legally or economically. Disclosure of “contained ounces” is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations; however, the SEC only permits issuers to report “resources” as in place, tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. Accordingly, information concerning descriptions of mineralization, reserves and resources contained in our reports may not be comparable to information made public by U.S. companies subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC. Increased costs could affect our ability to bring our projects into production and, once in production, our financial condition and ability to be profitable. Management anticipates that costs at the Livengood Gold Project will frequently be subject to variation from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans, if any, in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such as fuel, rubber and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production less profitable or not profitable at all. A material increase in costs could also impact our ability to maintain operations and have a significant effect on the Company’s profitability. The volatility of the price of gold could adversely affect our future operations and, if warranted, our ability to develop our properties. Even if commercial quantities of mineral deposits are discovered by the Company, there is no guarantee that a profitable market will exist for the sale of the metals produced, if any. The Company’s long-term viability and profitability, the value of the Company’s properties, the market price of its common shares and the Company’s ability to raise funding to conduct continued exploration and development, if warranted, depend, in large part, upon the market price of gold. The decision to put a mine into production and to commit the funds necessary for that purpose must be made long before the first revenue from production would be received. A decrease in the price of gold may prevent the Company’s property from being economically mined or result in the write-off of assets whose value is impaired as a result of lower gold prices. 14 Table of Contents The price of gold has experienced significant movement over short periods of time, and is affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company, including economic and political conditions, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates, global or regional demand, sale or purchase of gold by various central banks and financial institutions, speculative activities and increased production due to improved mining and production methods. The volatility of mineral prices represents a substantial risk which no amount of planning or technical expertise can fully eliminate. There can be no assurance that the price of gold will be such that any such deposits can be mined at a profit. The volatility in gold prices is illustrated by the following table, which presents the high, low and average fixed price in U.S. dollars for an ounce of gold, based on the London Bullion Market Association P.M. fix, over the past five years: High Low Average 2009 $ 1,213 $ 810 $ 972 2010 $ 1,421 $ 1,058 $ 1,225 2011 $ 1,895 $ 1,319 $ 1,572 2012 $ 1,792 $ 1,540 $ 1,669 2013 $ 1,694 $ 1,192 $ 1,410 January 1, 2014 to March 10, 2014 $ 1,350 $ 1,221 $ 1,280 Our results of operations could be affected by currency fluctuations. The Livengood Gold Project is located in the United States, with most costs associated with the Project paid in US dollars, and the Company maintains its accounts in Canadian and US dollars, making it subject to foreign currency fluctuations. There can be significant swings in the exchange rate between the US and Canadian dollar. There are no plans at this time to hedge against any exchange rate fluctuations in currencies. Adverse foreign currency fluctuations may cause losses and materially affect the Company’s financial position and results. Resource exploration, development and production involve a high degree of risk and we do not maintain insurance with respect to certain of these risks, which exposes us to significant risk of loss. Resource exploration, development and production involve a high degree of risk. Our operations are, and any future development or mining operations we may conduct will be, subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incident to exploring for and development of mineral properties, such as, but not limited to: · economically insufficient mineralized material; · fluctuation in exploration, development and production costs; · labor disputes; · unanticipated variations in grade and other geologic problems; · water conditions; · difficult surface or underground conditions; · mechanical and equipment failure; · failure of pit walls or dams; · environmental hazards; · industrial accidents; · metallurgical and other processing problems; · unusual or unexpected rock formations; · personal injury, cave-ins, landslides, flooding, fire, explosions, and rock-bursts; 15 Table of Contents · metal losses; · power outages; · periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions; and · decrease in the value of mineralized material due to lower gold prices. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, facilities or other property, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in operations, increased cost of operations, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Although the Company maintains or can be expected to maintain insurance within ranges of coverage consistent with industry practice, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to obtain insurance to cover all of these risks at economically feasible premiums or at all. The Company may elect not to insure where premium costs are disproportionate to the Company’s perception of the relevant risks. The payment of such insurance premiums and of such liabilities would reduce the funds available for exploration and production activities, if warranted. Should events such as these that are not covered by insurance arise, they could reduce or eliminate our assets and shareholder equity as well as result in increased costs and a decline in the value of our assets or common shares. We may not be able to obtain all required permits and licenses to place any of our properties into production. The current and future operations of the Company require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to carry out exploration, development and mining operations at its projects, on reasonable terms or at all. Costs related to applying for and obtaining permits and licenses may be prohibitive and could delay our planned exploration and development activities. Failure to comply with permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Delays in obtaining, or a failure to obtain, any such licenses and permits, or a failure to comply with the terms of any such licenses and permits that the Company does obtain, could delay or prevent production of the Livengood Gold Project and have a material adverse effect on the Company. Title to the Livengood Gold Project may be subject to defects in title or other claims, which could affect our property rights and claims. There are risks that title to the Livengood Gold Project may be challenged or impugned. The Livengood Gold Project is located in the State of Alaska and may be subject to prior unrecorded agreements or transfers or native land claims, and title may be affected by undetected defects. There may be valid challenges to the title of the Livengood Gold Project which, if successful, could impair development or operations. This is particularly the case in respect of those portions of our properties in which we hold our interest solely through a lease with the claim holders, as such interest is substantially based on contract and has been subject to a number of assignments (as opposed to a direct interest in the property). Some of the mining claims at the Livengood Gold Project are U.S. federal or Alaska state “unpatented” mining claims. There is a risk that a portion of such unpatented mining claims could be determined to be invalid, in which case the Company could lose the right to mine any minerals contained within those mining claims. Unpatented mining claims are created and maintained in accordance with the applicable U.S. federal and Alaska state mining laws. Unpatented mining claims are unique property interests and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests due to the validity of unpatented mining claims often being uncertain. This uncertainty arises, in part, out of the complex federal and state laws and regulations under the provisions of the U.S. General Mining Law of 1872 (the “Mining Law”). Unpatented mining claims are always subject to possible challenges of third parties or validity contests by the United States federal government or the Alaska state government, as applicable. The validity of an unpatented mining claim, in terms of both its location and its maintenance, is dependent on strict compliance with a complex body of federal and state statutory and decisional law. Title to the unpatented mining claims may also be affected by undetected defects such as unregistered agreements or transfers and there are few public records that definitively determine the issues of validity and ownership of unpatented mining claims. The Company has not obtained full title opinions for the majority of its 16 Table of Contents mineral properties. Not all the mineral properties in which the Company has an interest have been surveyed, and their actual extent and location may be in doubt. Should the federal government impose a royalty or additional tax burdens on the properties that lie within public lands, the resulting mining operations could be seriously impacted, depending upon the type and amount of the burden. The leases and agreements pursuant to which the Company has interests, or the right to acquire interests, in a significant portion of the Livengood Gold Project provide that the Company must make a series of cash payments over certain time periods or expend certain minimum amounts on the exploration of the properties. Failure by the Company to make such payments or make such expenditures in a timely fashion may result in the Company losing its interest in such properties. There can be no assurance that the Company will have, or be able to obtain, the necessary financial resources to be able to maintain all of its property agreements in good standing, or to be able to comply with all of its obligations thereunder, which could result in the Company forfeiting its interest in one or more of its mineral properties. The Company may not have and may not be able to obtain surface or access rights to all or a portion of the Livengood Gold Project. Although the Company acquires the rights to some or all of the minerals in the ground subject to the mineral tenures that it acquires, or has a right to acquire, in most cases it does not thereby acquire any rights to, or ownership of, the surface to the areas covered by its mineral tenures. In such cases, applicable mining laws usually provide for rights of access to the surface for the purpose of carrying on mining activities, however, the enforcement of such rights through the courts can be costly and time consuming. It is necessary to negotiate surface access or to purchase the surface rights if long-term access is required. There can be no guarantee that, despite having the right at law to access the surface and carry on mining activities, the Company will be able to negotiate satisfactory agreements with any such existing landowners/occupiers for such access or purchase such surface rights, and therefore it may be unable to carry out planned exploration or mining activities. In addition, in circumstances where such access is denied, or no agreement can be reached, the Company may need to rely on the assistance of local officials or the courts in such jurisdiction the outcomes of which cannot be predicted with any certainty. The inability of the Company to secure surface access or purchase required surface rights could materially and adversely affect the timing, cost or overall ability of the Company to develop any mineral deposits it may locate. Our properties and operations may be subject to litigation or other claims. From time to time our properties or operations may be subject to disputes which may result in litigation or other legal claims. We may be required to assert or defend against these claims which will divert resources and management time from operations. The costs of these claims or adverse filings may have a material effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to significant governmental regulations which affect our operations and costs of conducting our business. Any exploration activities carried on by the Company are, and any future development or mining operations we may conduct will be, subject to extensive laws and regulations governing various matters, including: · mineral concession acquisition, exploration, development, mining and production; · management of natural resources; · exports, price controls, taxes and fees; · labor standards on occupational health and safety, including mine safety; · post-closure reclamation; · environmental standards, waste disposal, toxic substances, explosives, land use and environmental protection; and · dealings with indigenous peoples and historic and cultural preservation. 17 Table of Contents Companies engaged in exploration activities often experience increased costs and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits may result in civil or criminal fines or penalties, enforcement actions thereunder, including the forfeiture of claims, orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities requiring operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or costly remedial actions, any of which could result in the Company incurring significant expenditures. The Company may also be required to compensate third parties suffering loss or damage as a result of our mineral exploration activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of such laws, regulations and permits. It is also possible that future laws and regulations could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspension of the Company’s operations and delays in the exploration and development of the Company’s property. Legislation has been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry and our business. In recent years, members of the United States Congress have repeatedly introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the Mining Law. If adopted, such legislation, among other things, could eliminate or greatly limit the right to a mineral patent, impose federal royalties on mineral production from unpatented mining claims located on United States federal lands (which includes certain of the mining claims at the Livengood Gold Project), result in the denial of permits to mine after the expenditure of significant funds for exploration and development, reduce estimates of mineral reserves and reduce the amount of future exploration and development activity on U.S. federal lands, all of which could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s ability to operate and its cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. Our activities are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs of doing business and restrict our operations. The activities of the Company are subject to environmental regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Environmental legislation generally provides for restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions into the air, discharges into water, management of waste, management of hazardous substances, protection of natural resources, antiquities and endangered species and reclamation of lands disturbed by mining operations. Certain types of operations require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner involving stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations and future changes in these laws and regulations may require significant capital outlays, cause material changes or delays in our current and planned operations and future activities and reduce the profitability of operations. It is possible that future changes in these laws or regulations could have a significant adverse impact on our Livengood Gold Project or some portion of our business, causing us to re-evaluate those activities at that time. Examples of current U.S. federal laws which may affect our current operations and may impact future business and operations include, but are not limited to, the following: The Comprehensive Environmental, Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), and comparable state statutes, impose strict, joint and several liability on current and former owners and operators of sites and on persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances found at such sites. It is not uncommon for the government to file claims requiring cleanup actions, demands for reimbursement for government-incurred cleanup costs, or natural resource damages, or for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances released into the environment. The Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), and comparable state statutes, govern the disposal of solid waste and hazardous waste and authorize the imposition of substantial fines and penalties for noncompliance, as well as requirements for corrective actions. CERCLA, RCRA and comparable state statutes can impose liability for clean-up of sites and disposal of substances found on exploration, mining and processing sites long after activities on such sites have been completed. 18 Table of Contents The Clean Air Act (“CAA”) restricts the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including mining and processing activities. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants from stationary equipment, storage facilities and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment, which are subject to review, monitoring or control requirements under the CAA and state air quality laws. New facilities may be required to obtain permits before work can begin, and existing facilities may be required to incur capital costs in order to remain in compliance. In addition, permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or result in additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the regulations. The National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”) requires federal agencies to integrate environmental considerations into their decision-making processes by evaluating the environmental impacts of their proposed actions, including issuance of permits to mining facilities, and assessing alternatives to those actions. If a proposed action could significantly affect the environment, the agency must prepare a detailed statement known as an Environmental Impact Statement (“EIS”). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), other federal agencies, and any interested third parties will review and comment on the scoping of the EIS and the adequacy of and findings set forth in the draft and final EIS. We are required to undertake the NEPA process for the Livengood Gold Project permitting. The NEPA process can cause delays in issuance of required permits or result in changes to a project to mitigate its potential environmental impacts, which can in turn impact the economic feasibility of a proposed project or the ability to construct or operate the Livengood Gold Project or other properties entirely. The Clean Water Act (“CWA”), and comparable state statutes, impose restrictions and controls on the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. The CWA regulates storm water mining facilities and requires a storm water discharge permit for certain activities. Such a permit requires the regulated facility to monitor and sample storm water run-off from its operations. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of dredged and fill material in wetlands and other waters of the United States unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. The CWA and comparable state statutes provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of pollutants and impose liability on parties responsible for those discharges for the costs of cleaning up any environmental damage caused by the release and for natural resource damages resulting from the release. The Safe Drinking Water Act (“SDWA”) and the Underground Injection Control (“UIC”) program promulgated thereunder, regulate the drilling and operation of subsurface injection wells. The EPA directly administers the UIC program in some states and in others the responsibility for the program has been delegated to the state. The program requires that a permit be obtained before drilling a disposal or injection well. Violation of these regulations or contamination of groundwater by mining related activities may result in fines, penalties, and remediation costs, among other sanctions and liabilities under the SDWA and state laws. In addition, third party claims may be filed by landowners and other parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages, and bodily injury. Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to various climate change interest groups and the potential impact of climate change. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us, our future partners and our suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. Any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Given the emotion, political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be dealt with, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. These impacts may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. 19 Table of Contents Land reclamation requirements for our properties may be burdensome and expensive in the future. Land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies (as well as companies with mining operations) in order to minimize long term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to: · control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents; · treat ground and surface water to drinking water standards; and · reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation. In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on us in connection with the potential development activities at the Livengood Gold Project, we must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration and development programs. We plan to set up a provision for reclamation obligations on the Livengood Gold Project, as appropriate, but this provision may not be adequate. If we are required to carry out unanticipated reclamation work, our financial position could be adversely affected. The mining industry is intensely competitive, and we have limited financial and personnel resources with which to compete. The Company’s business of the acquisition, exploration and development, if warranted, of mineral properties is intensely competitive. The Company may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring additional mining properties because it must compete with other individuals and companies, many of which may have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than the Company. The Company may also encounter increasing competition from other mining companies in efforts to hire experienced mining professionals. Increased competition could adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract necessary capital funding, acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future, or attract or retain key personnel or outside technical resources. A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our exploration and, if warranted, development and mining operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. We are dependent on key personnel and the absence of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our success is largely dependent on the performance and abilities of our directors, officers, employees and management and on our ability to attract and retain additional key personnel in exploration, mine development, sales, marketing, technical support and finance. In addition, the Company has relied and may continue to rely upon consultants and others for operating expertise. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain the services of our directors, officers, employees or other qualified personnel required to operate our business. The loss of the services of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel is critical to our success and there can be no assurance we will be able to recruit and retain such personnel. The number of persons skilled in the acquisition, exploration and development of mineral properties is limited and competition for such persons is intense. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, our ability to develop our properties could be affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. 20 Table of Contents Canadian investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against us. It may be difficult for Canadian investors to bring and enforce suits against us. As substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries are located outside of Canada, and certain of the directors and officers of the Company are resident outside of Canada, it may be difficult or impossible for Canadian investors to enforce judgments granted by a court in Canada against the assets of the Company or the directors and officers of the Company residing outside of Canada. A shareholder should not assume that the courts of the United States (i) would enforce judgments of Canadian courts obtained in actions against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the Canadian securities laws or other laws of Canada, or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon Canadian securities laws or other laws of Canada. Risks Related to Our Common Shares Our share price may be volatile and as a result you could lose all or part of your investment. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly those considered exploration or development stage companies, have experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. It may be anticipated that any quoted market for our common shares will be subject to market trends and conditions generally, notwithstanding any potential success we have in creating revenues, cash flows or earnings. The price of our common shares has been subject to price and volume volatility in the past. In 2013, the price of our common shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange ranged from a low of C$0.31 to a high of C$2.48, and on the NYSE MKT ranged from a low of $0.30 to a high of $2.49. From January 1, 2014 to March 10, 2014, the price of our common shares on the TSX ranged from a low of C$0.43 to a high of C$1.14, and on the NYSE MKT ranged from a low of $0.40 to a high of $1.03. There can be no assurance that significant fluctuations in the trading price of the Company’s common shares will not continue to occur, or that such fluctuations will not materially adversely impact the Company’s ability to raise equity funding without significant dilution to its existing shareholders, or at all. As a result, you may be unable to resell your shares at a desired price. Future sales of our securities in the public or private markets will dilute our current shareholders and could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares and our ability to continue to raise funds in new stock offerings. It is likely that the Company will sell common shares or securities exercisable or convertible into common shares in the future. The Company may issue securities on less than favorable terms to raise sufficient capital to fund its business plan. Any transaction involving the issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into common shares would result in dilution, possibly substantial, to present and prospective holders of common shares, could adversely affect the trading prices of our common shares, and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of securities. We have never paid dividends on our common shares. We have not paid dividends on our common shares to date, and we may not be in a position to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ability to successfully develop the Livengood Gold Project and generate earnings from operations. Further, our initial earnings, if any, will likely be retained to finance our operations. Any future dividends will depend upon our earnings, our then-existing financial requirements and other factors, and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both our compliance costs and the risk of noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulated organizations, including the British Columbia Securities Commission, the SEC, the TSX, the NYSE MKT, and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and 21 Table of Contents many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by the United States Congress, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. For example, on July 21, 2010, the United States Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) with increased disclosure obligations for public companies and mining companies in the United States. Our efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and other new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from operating activities to compliance activities. We likely constituted a “passive foreign investment company” during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, which may result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. We believe that we were a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, and we expect that we will be a PFIC in the current year and that we may be a PFIC in future years. The determination of whether or not the Company is a PFIC is a factual determination dependent on a number of factors that cannot be made until the close of the applicable tax year and accordingly no assurances can be given regarding the Company’s PFIC status for the current year or any future year. If ITH is a PFIC at any time during a U.S. holder’s holding period, then certain potentially adverse tax consequences could apply to such U.S. holder’s acquisition, ownership, and disposition of common shares. For more information, please see the discussion in “Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for U.S. Holders” below. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 