Risk Factors The Company, and thus the securities of the Company, should be considered a speculative investment and investors should carefully consider all of the information disclosed in this Annual Report prior to making an investment in the Company. In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report, the following risk factors should be given special consideration when evaluating an investment in any of the Company's securities. Risks Associated with Exploration The Company has no known reserves on its properties. The Company has no mineral producing properties and has never generated any revenue from its operations. The majority of exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore. Only those mineral deposits that the Company can economically and legally extract or produce, based on a comprehensive evaluation of cost, grade, recovery and other factors, are considered ";resources"; or ";reserves."; The Company has no known bodies of commercial ore or economic deposits and has not defined or delineated any proven or probable reserves or resources on any of its properties. The Company may never discover any gold, silver or other minerals from mineralized material in commercially exploitable quantities and any identified mineralized deposit may never qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) reserve. In addition, the Company is in its early stages of exploration and substantial additional work will be required in order to determine if any economic deposits exist on the Company’s properties. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves through drilling and metallurgical and other testing techniques. No assurance can be given that any level of recovery of the ore reserves will be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercial mineable ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Even if commercial quantities of minerals are discovered on the Company’s properties, those properties might not be brought into a state of commercial production. Estimates of mineral resources are inherently imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from limited drilling, which may prove unreliable. Fluctuations in the market prices of minerals may render reserves and deposits containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic. Material changes in mineralized material, grades or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of projects. Finding mineral deposits is dependent on a number of factors, not the least of which are the technical skills of exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit, once discovered, is also dependent on a number of factors, some of which are particular attributes of the depos it, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure and resource markets, as well as factors independent of the attributes of the deposit, such as government regulations and metal prices. Most of these factors are beyond the control of the entity conducting such mineral exploration. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to mineral resources, such as the need for orderly development of the deposits or the processing of new or different grades, may cause mining operations, if any, to be unprofitable in any particular period. These risks may limit or prevent the Company from making a profit from the exploration and development of its mineral properties and could negatively affect the value of the Company’s equity. The Company faces risks related to exploration and development, if warranted, of its properties. The level of profitability of the Company, if any, in future years will depend to a great degree on gold and silver prices and whether any of the Company’s exploration stage properties can be brought into production. The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant risks. It is impossible to ensure that the current and future exploration programs and/or feasibility studies on the Company’s existing mineral properties will establish reserves. Whether an ore body will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; metal prices, which cannot be predicted and which have been highly volatile in the past; mining, processing and transportation costs; perceived levels of political risk and the willingness of lenders and investors to provide project financing; labour costs and possible labour strikes; and governmental regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting materials, foreign exchange, environmental protection, employment, worker safety, transportation, and reclamation and closure obligations. The Company is also subject to the risks normally encountered in the mining industry, such as: unusual or unexpected geological formations;< fires, floods, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and other natural disasters; power outages and water shortages; cave-ins, land slides, and other similar mining hazards; labour disruptions and labour disputes; inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment, or labour; liability for pollution or other hazards; and other known and unknown risks involved in the operation of mines and the conduct of exploration. The development of mineral properties is affected by many factors, including, but not limited to: the cost of operations, variations in the grade of ore, fluctuations in metal markets, costs of extraction and processing equipment, availability of equipment and labour, labour costs and possible labour strikes, and government regulations, including without limitation, regulations relating to taxes, royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, foreign exchange, employment, worker safety, transportation, and environmental protection. Depending on the price of minerals, the Company may determine that it is impractical to commence, or, if commenced, continue, commercial production. Such a decision would negatively affect the Company’s profits and may affect the value of its equity. The Company properties may be subject to unregistered agreements, transfers or claims and title may be adversely affected by undetected defects or aboriginal claims. The Company has not conducted a legal survey of the boundaries of any of its properties, and therefore, in accordance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which these properties are situated, their existence and area could be in doubt. The Company has obtained only limited formal title reports on some of its properties and title to all of its properties may be in doubt. The Company’s properties may be subject to unregistered agreements, transfers or claims and title may be adversely affected by such undetected defects. If title is disputed, the Company may have to defend its ownership through the courts, and the Company cannot guarantee that a favourable judgment will be obtained. Any litigation could be extremely costly to the Company and could limit the available capital for use in other exploration and development activities. The Company may require additional financing to cover the costs of any litigation necessary to establish title. In the event of an adverse judgment with respect to any of its mineral properties, the Company could lose its property rights and may be required to cease its exploration and development activities on that property. Mining operations may also be affected by claims of native peoples, any of which could have the effect of reducing or preventing the Company from exploiting any possible mineral reserves on its properties. Mineral operations are subject to government regulations. The Company’s primary exploration properties are located in the States of Alaska and Nevada. The federal government of the United States and the governments of the States of Alaska and Nevada regulate mining operations and require mining permits and licenses. There can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals from various federal, state, and local government authorities that may be required in order to undertake exploration activities or commence construction or operation of mine facilities on its properties. Further, there is no guarantee that the federal, state, and local governments will not change the terms and conditions of these permits and licenses, adversely affecting the Company, or that such governments will not completely revoke these licenses, terminating the Company’s property rights and requiring the Company to cease ex ploration and development activities on one or more of its properties. If the Company is unable to obtain and maintain any necessary permits, it may be forced to abandon all or a portion of its properties. Mining operations are subject to a wide range of government regulations including, but not limited to: restrictions on production and production methods, price controls, tax increases, expropriation of property, import and export control, employment laws, worker safety regulations, environmental protection, protection of agricultural territory or changes in conditions under which minerals may be marketed. Mineral operations are subject to market forces outside of the Company’s control. The marketability of minerals is affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the entity involved in their mining and processing. These factors include, but are not limited to, market fluctuations, government regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, allowable production, import restrictions applicable to equipment and supplies, export controls and supply and demand. One or more of these risk elements could have an impact on costs of an operation and, if significant enough, reduce the profitability of the operation and threaten its continuation. The mining industry is highly competitive. The business of the acquisition, exploration, and development of mineral properties is intensely competitive. The Company will be required to compete, in the future, directly with other corporations that have better access to potential mineral resources, more developed infrastructure, more available capital, better access to necessary financing, and more knowledgeable and available employees than the Company. The Company may encounter competition in acquiring mineral properties, hiring mining professionals or obtaining mining resources, such as manpower, drill rigs, and other mining equipment. Such corporations could outbid the Company for potential projects or produce minerals at lower costs. Increased competition could also affect the Company’s ability to attract necessary capital funding or acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future.< /P> Mining and mineral exploration have substantial operational risks which are uninsured or uninsurable risks. Exploration, development and mining operations involve various hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, metallurgical and other processing problems, unusual or unexpected rock formations, structural cave-ins or slides, flooding, fires, metal losses and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These risks could result in damage to or destruction of mineral properties, facilities or other property, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in operations, increased cost of operations, monetary losses and possible legal liability. The Company may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums or at all. The Company may elect not to insure where premium costs are disproportionate to its perception of the relevant risks. The payment of such insurance premiums and of such liabilities would reduce the funds available for exploration and production activities. Environmental Regulatory Requirements In connection with its operations and properties, the Company is subject to extensive and changing environmental legislation, regulation and actions. The Company cannot predict what environmental legislation, regulation or policy will be enacted or adopted in the future or how future laws and regulations will be administered or interpreted. The recent trend in environmental legislation and regulation, generally, is toward stricter standards and this trend is likely to continue in the future. This recent trend includes, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, mine reclamation, waste handling and disposal, the protection of certain species and the preservation of certain lands. These regulations may require the acquisition of permits or other authorizations for certain activities. These laws and regulations may also limit or prohibit activities on certain lands. Compliance with more stringent laws and regulations, as well as potentially more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may necessitate significant capital outlays, may materially affect the Company’s results of operations and business, or may cause material changes or delays in the Company’s intended activities. The Company’s operations may require additional analysis in the future including environmental and social impact and other related studies. Certain activities require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers, and employees. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary permits that may be required to continue its operation or its exploration of its properties or, if feasible, to commence development, construction or operation of mining facilities at such properties on terms which enable operations to be conducted at economically justifiable costs. Other Regulatory Requirements The Company’s activities are subject to extensive regulations governing various matters, including management and use of toxic substances and explosives, management of natural resources, exploration, development of mines, production and post-closure reclamation, exports, price controls, taxation, regulations concerning business dealings with indigenous peoples, labour standards on occupational health and safety, including mine safety, and historic and cultural preservation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal fines or penalties, enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions, any of which could result in the Company incurring significant expenditures. The Company may also be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of a breach of such laws, regulations or permitting requirements. It is also possible that future laws and regulations, or more stringent enforcement of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities, could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspension of the Company’s operations and delays in the exploration and development of its mineral properties. Financing Risks The Company has a history of losses and no revenues. The Company is a mineral exploration company without operations and has historically incurred losses. To date, the Company has not recorded any revenues from its operations nor has the Company commenced commercial production on any of its properties. The Company does not expect to receive revenues from operations in the foreseeable future, if at all. The Company expects to continue to incur losses unless and until such time as properties enter into commercial production and generate sufficient revenues to fund its continuing operations. Until such time, the Company will be dependent upon future financing in order to meet its capital requirements and continue its plan of operations. Although the Company has raised additional private placement financing in the fiscal year ended May 31, 2007, these funds may not be sufficient to undertake all planned acquisition, exploration, and development programs of the Company. The Company cannot guarantee that it will obtain necessary financing. The development of the Company’s properties will require the commitment of substantial resources to conduct the time-consuming exploration and development of properties. The amounts and timing of expenditures will depend on the progress of on-going exploration, assessment and development, the results of consultants’ analyses and recommendations, the rate at which operating losses are incurred, the execution of any joint venture agre ements with strategic partners, the Company’s acquisition of additional properties and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. The Company may never generate any revenues or achieve profitability. The Company may require additional capital to meet its capital requirements for future fiscal years. The Company has raised additional private placement financing during the fiscal year ended May 31, 2007, but may not have sufficient financial resources to undertake all of its planned acquisition, exploration and development programs. In the future, the Company’s ability to continue its exploration, assessment, and development activities depends in part on the Company’s ability to commence operations and generate revenues or to obtain financing through joint ventures, debt financing, equity financing, production sharing arrangements or some combination of these or other means. There can be no assurance that any such arrangements will be concluded and the associated funding obtained. There can be no assurance that the Company will commence operations and generate sufficient revenues to meet its obligations as they become due or will obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure of the Company to meet its on-going obligations on a timely basis could result in the loss or substantial dilution of the Company’s interests (as existing or as proposed to be acquired) in its properties. In addition, should the Company incur significant losses in future periods, it may be unable to continue as a going concern, and realization of assets and settlement of liabilities in other than the normal course of business may be at amounts significantly different from those in the financial statements included in this Annual Report. Recent market events and conditions, including disruptions in the U.S. and international credit markets and other financial systems and the deterioration of the U.S. and global economic conditions, could, among other things, impede access to capital or increase the cost of capital, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to fund its working capital and other capital requirements. In 2007 and into 2008, the U.S. credit markets began to experience serious disruption due to a deterioration in residential property values, defaults and delinquencies in the residential mortgage market (particularly, subprime and non-prime mortgages) and a decline in the credit quality of mortgage backed securities. These problems led to a slow-down in residential housing market transactions, declining housing prices, delinquencies in non-mortgage consumer credit and a general decline in consumer confidence. These conditions continued and worsened in 2008, causing a loss of confidence in the broader U.S. and global credit and financial markets and resulting in the collapse of, and government intervention in, major banks, financial institutions and insurers and creating a climate of greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency, increased credit losses and tighter credit conditions. Notwithstanding various actions by the U.S. and foreign governments, concerns about the general condition of the capital markets, financial instruments, banks, investment banks, insurers and other financial institutions caused the broader credit markets to further deteriorate and stock markets to decline substantially. In addition, general economic indicators have deteriorated, including declining consumer sentiment, increased unemployment and declining economic growth and uncertainty about corporate earnings. These unprecedented disruptions in the current credit and financial markets have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. These disruptions could, among other things, make it more difficult for the Company to obtain, or increase its cost of obtaining, capital and financing for its operations. The Company’s access to additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company or at all. Currency fluctuation may affect the Company’s operations and financial stability. While engaged in the business of exploiting mineral properties, the Company’s operations outside Canada make it subject to foreign currency fluctuation and such fluctuations may adversely effect the Company’s financial positions and results. Such fluctuations are outside the control of the Company and may be largely unpredictable. Management may not take any steps to address foreign currency fluctuations that will eliminate all adverse effects and, accordingly, the Company may suffer losses due to adverse foreign currency fluctuations. The prices of precious and base minerals and metals fluctuate widely and may not produce enough revenue to cover the Company’s costs. Even if commercial quantities of mineral deposits are discovered, there is no guarantee that a profitable market will exist for the sale of the metals produced. The Company’s long-term viability and profitability depend, in large part, upon the market price of metals which have experienced significant movement over short periods of time, and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates and global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to improved mining and production methods. The supply of and demand for metals are affected by various factors, including political events, economic conditions and production costs in major producing regions. There can be no assurance that the price of any minera ls produced from the Company’s properties will be such that any such deposits can be mined at a profit. The Company is dependent upon key management employees. The success of the Company’s operations will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond its control, including (i) the Company’s ability to enter into strategic alliances through a combination of one or more joint ventures, mergers or acquisition transactions; and (ii) the Company’s ability to attract and retain additional key personnel in sales, marketing, technical support and finance. Currently, the Company is reliant primarily upon the services of Jeffrey A. Pontius (President and Chief Executive Officer), Russell Myers (Vice-President, Exploration) and Chris Puchner (Chief Geologist). Each of these individuals has extensive experience in mineral exploration and is fully familiar with the Company’s properties. There is presently a significant shortage of qualified geologists and mineral exploration personnel available and, therefore, if either of these indiv iduals left the Company, it would be difficult for the Company to replace them with similarly qualified personnel within a reasonable time, which could result in a significant delay in the Company’s ongoing operations, particularly its mineral exploration programs in Alaska and Nevada. These and other factors will require the use of outside suppliers as well as the talents and efforts of the Company’s management. There can be no assurance of success with any or all of these factors on which the Company’s operations will depend. The Company has relied, and may continue to rely, upon consultants and others for operating expertise. The Company’s growth will require new personnel, which it will be required to recruit, hire, train and retain. The Company expects significant growth in the number of its employees if it determines that a mine at any of its properties is commercially feasible, it is able to raise sufficient funding and it elects to develop the property. This growth will place substantial demands on the Company and its management, and the Company’s ability to assimilate new personnel will be critical to its performance. The Company will be required to recruit additional personnel and to train, motivate and manage employees. It will also have to adopt and implement new systems in all aspects of its operations. This will be particularly critical if the Company decides not to use contract miners at any of its properties. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to recruit the personnel required to execute its programs or to manage these changes successfully. The Company has limited experience with development stage mining operations. The Company has limited experience in placing resource properties into production, and its ability to do so will be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or entering into agreements with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise. There can be no assurance that the Company will have available, the necessary expertise when and if it places a property into production. Certain of the Company’s directors and officers are also directors and/or officers and/or shareholders of potential competitors of the Company, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest. Several of the Company’s directors and officers are also directors, officers or shareholders of other companies. In particular, Messrs. Van Alphen, Talbot and Kinley and Ms. Ritchie are directors and/or officers of Cardero Resource Corp., a public natural resource exploration company that holds approximately 10.93% of the Common Shares, and Mr. Guenther is an officer of AngloGold Ashanti Americas, Inc., an affiliate of AngloGold Ashanti (U.S.A.) Exploration Inc., (both indirect subsidiaries of AngloGold Ashanti Limited) which holds approximately 14.55% of the Common Shares (% as at December 1, 2008). Some of the directors and officers are engaged and will continue to be engaged in the search for additional business opportunities on behalf of other corporations, and situations may arise where these directors and officers will be in direct competition with the Company. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Such a conflict poses the risk that the Company may enter into a transaction on terms which could place the Company in a worse position than if no conflict existed. Conflicts, if any, will be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of the BCBCA. The Board has resolved that any transaction involving a related party to the Company is required to be reviewed and approved by the Company’s Audit Committee. The Company’s directors are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and to disclose any interest which they many have in any project or opportunity in respect of which the Company is proposing to enter into a transaction. Risks Relating to an Investment in the Securities of the Company Stock market price and volume volatility. The market for the Common Shares may be highly volatile for reasons both related to the performance of the Company or events pertaining to the industry (i.e., mineral price fluctuation/high production costs/accidents) as well as factors unrelated to the Company or its industry. In particular, market demand for products incorporating minerals in their manufacture fluctuates from one business cycle to the next, resulting in change of demand for the mineral and an attendant change in the price for the mineral. The Common Shares can be expected to be subject to volatility in both price and volume arising from market expectations, announcements and press releases regarding the Company’s business, and changes in estimates and evaluations by securities analysts or other events or factors. In recent years the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced a high level of pric e and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly small-capitalization companies such as the Company, have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values, or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, the price of the Common Shares can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which the Company has no control. Further, despite the existence of a market for trading the Common Shares in Canada in the United States, stockholders of the Company may be unable to sell significant quantities of Common Shares in the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of the stock. Dilution through the granting of options. Because the success of the Company is highly dependent upon the performance of its directors, officers, employees and consultants, the Company has granted, and will in the future grant, to some or all of its directors, officers, employees and consultants, options to purchase its Common Shares as non-cash incentives. Those options may be granted at exercise prices below those for the Common Shares prevailing in the public trading market at the time or may be granted at exercise prices equal to market prices at times when the public market is depressed. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be granted and exercised, the interests of the other stockholders of the Company may be diluted. The Company may experience difficulty complying with its upcoming obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While the Company believes it has adequate internal control over financial reporting, it is required to evaluate its internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in the Company’s financial reports and have an adverse effect on the price of the Company’s shares of common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Company, as a non-accelerated filer, expects that beginning in its annual report for the year ended May 31, 2008, it will be required to furnish a report by management on its internal controls over financial reporting. Such report will contain among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not its internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting identified by the Company’s management. Starting with the Company’s annual report for the year ended May 31, 2010, such report must also contain a statement that the Company’s auditors have issued an attestation report on the Com pany’s management’s assessment of such internal controls. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, the Company’s management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. While the Company believes its internal control over financial reporting is effective, the Company cannot be certain that it will be able to complete its evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion in order to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. During the evaluation and testing process, if the Company identifies one or more material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting, it will be unable to assert that such internal control is effective. If the Company is unable to assert that its internal control over financial reporting is effective as of May 31, 2008 (or if its auditors are unable to attest that its management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal controls), the Company could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of its financial report s, which would have a material adverse effect on its stock price. The Company may be a passive foreign investment company, which may result in material adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. Investors in the Common Shares that are U.S. taxpayers should be aware that the Company may be a passive foreign investment company under Section 1297(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (a ";PFIC";). If the Company is or becomes a PFIC, generally any gain recognized on the sale of Common Shares and any excess distributions (as specifically defined under ";U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations";), paid on the Common Shares must be rateably allocated to each day in a U.S. taxpayer’s holding period for Common Shares. The amount of any such gain or excess distribution allocated to prior years of such U.S. taxpayers holding period for Common Shares generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest tax applicable to ordinary income in each such prior year, and the U.S. taxpayer will be required to pay interest on the resulting tax liability for each such prior year, calcul ated as if such tax liability had been due in each such prior year. Alternatively, a U.S. taxpayer that makes a Qualified Electing Fund (a ";QEF";) election with respect to his or her investment generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on such U.S. taxpayer’s pro rata share of the Company’s net capital gain and ordinary earnings (as specifically defined and calculated under U.S. federal income tax rules), regardless of whether such amounts are actually distributed by the Company. U.S. taxpayers should be aware, however, that there can be no assurance that the Company will satisfy record keeping requirements under the QEF rules or that the Company will supply U.S. taxpayers with required information under the QEF rules, in the event that it is a PFIC and a U.S. taxpayer wishes to make a QEF election. As a second alternative, a U.S. taxpayer may make a mark-to-market election if the Company is a PFIC and Common Shares are marketable stock (as spe cifically defined under ";U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations";). A U.S. taxpayer that makes a mark-to-market election generally will include in gross income, for each taxable year in which the Company is a PFIC, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the fair market value of Common Shares as of the close of such taxable year over (b) such U.S. taxpayer’s adjusted tax basis in Common Shares. Broker-Dealers may be discouraged from effecting transactions in the Common Shares because they are considered ";Penny Stocks"; and are subject to the Penny Stock Rules. Rules 15g-1 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act impose sales practice and disclosure requirements on certain broker-dealers who engage in certain transactions involving "a penny stock". Subject to certain exceptions, a penny stock generally includes any equity security that has a market price of less than USD 5.00 per share. The market price of the Common Shares over the year ended December 31, 2007 and through November 18, 2008 was consistently below USD 5.00 and the Common Shares are deemed penny stock for the purposes of the Exchange Act. The additional sales practice and disclosure requirements imposed upon broker-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in the Common Shares, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the Common Shares and impede the sale of Common Shares in the secondary market. Under the penny stock regulations, a broker-dealer selling penny stock to anyone other than an established customer or ";accredited investor"; (generally, an individual with net worth in excess of USD 1,000,000 or an annual income exceeding USD 200,000, or USD 300,000 together with his or her spouse) must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale, unless the broker-dealer or the transaction is otherwise exempt. In addition, the penny stock regulations require the broker-dealer to deliver, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the US Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market, unless the broker-dealer or the transaction is otherwise exempt. A broker-dealer is also required to disclose commissions payable to the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, a broker-dealer is required to send monthly statements disclosing recent price information with respect to the penny stock held in a customer's account and information with respect to the limited market in penny stocks. The Company does not intend to pay cash dividends and there is no assurance that it will ever declare cash dividends. The Company intends to retain any future earnings to finance its business and operations and any future growth. Therefore, the Company does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 