ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We have a history of losses, and we cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred annual losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2005 we had incurred aggregate net losses of $39.9 million. We may incur losses in the future, at least in the short term, as a result of expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business and expensing of stock options. Our expenses include those related to sales and marketing, general and administrative, research and development and others related to the development, marketing and sale of products and services that may not generate revenue until later periods, if at all. As we implement initiatives to grow our business, which include, among other things, acquisitions, plans for international expansion and new product development, any failure to increase revenue or manage our cost structure could prevent us from completing these initiatives and achieving or sustaining profitability. As a result, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If our existing customers do not renew their software subscriptions and buy additional solutions from us, our business will suffer. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from renewal of software subscriptions and, to a lesser extent, service and maintenance fees from our existing customers. As a result, maintaining the renewal rate of our existing software subscriptions is critical to our future success. Factors that may affect the renewal rate for our solutions include: • the price, performance and functionality of our solutions; • the availability, price, performance and functionality of competing products and services; • the effectiveness of our maintenance and support services; • our ability to develop complementary products and services; and • the stability, performance and security of our hosting infrastructure and hosting services. Most of our existing enterprise customers entered into software subscription agreements that expire between two and six years from the initial contract date. The small to medium-sized customers we obtained through our acquisition of Recruitforce.com, Inc. generally enter into annual contracts. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our solutions after the expiration of the initial term of their agreements. In addition, our customers may negotiate terms less advantageous to us upon renewal, which may reduce our revenue from these customers, or may request that we license our software to them on a perpetual basis, which may, after we have ratably recognized the revenue for the perpetual license over the relevant term in accordance with our revenue recognition policies, reduce recurring revenue from these customers. Under certain circumstances, our customers may cancel their subscriptions for our solutions prior to the expiration of the term. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell new products and services to our existing customers. If our customers terminate their agreements, fail to renew their agreements, renew their agreements upon less favorable terms, or fail to buy new products and services from us, our revenue may decline or our future revenue may be constrained. Because we recognize revenue from software subscriptions over the term of the agreement, a significant downturn in our business may not be reflected immediately in our operating results, which increases the difficulty of evaluating our future financial position. We generally recognize revenue from software subscription agreements ratably over the terms of these agreements, which are typically between two and five years for our Taleo Enterprise Edition customers and 16 Table of Contents one year for our Taleo Business Edition customers. As a result, a substantial portion of our software subscription revenue in each quarter is generated from software subscription agreements entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a decline in new software subscription agreements in any one quarter may not affect our results of operations in that quarter but will reduce our revenue in future quarters. Additionally, the timing of renewals or non-renewals of a software subscription agreement during any one quarter may also affect our financial performance in that particular quarter. For example, because we recognize revenue ratably, the non-renewal of a software subscription agreement late in a quarter will have very little impact on revenue for that quarter, but will reduce our revenue in future quarters. By contrast, a non-renewal occurring early in a quarter may have a significant negative impact on revenue for that quarter and we may not be able to offset a decline in revenue due to such non-renewals with revenue from new software subscription agreements entered into in the same quarter. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our costs in response to reduced revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales and market acceptance of our solutions may not be reflected in our short-term results of operations, which would make these reported results less indicative of our future financial results. If our efforts to attract new customers are not successful, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. In order to grow our business, we must continually add new customers. Our ability to attract new customers will depend in large part on the success of our sales and marketing efforts. However, our prospective customers may not be familiar with our solutions, or may have traditionally used other products and services for their talent management requirements. In addition, our prospective customers may develop their own solutions to address their talent management requirements, purchase competitive product offerings, or engage third-party providers of outsourced talent management services that do not use our solution to provide their services. Additionally, some new customers may request that we license our software to them on a perpetual basis or that we allow them the contractual right to convert from a term license to a perpetual license during the contract term, which may, after we have ratably recognized the revenue for the perpetual license over the relevant term in accordance with our revenue recognition policies, reduce recurring revenue from these customers. To date, we have completed a limited number of agreements with such terms. If our prospective customers do not perceive our products and services to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to attract new customers. Our financial performance may be difficult to forecast as a result of our historical focus on large customers and the long sales cycle associated with our solutions. The majority of our revenue is currently derived from organizations with complex talent management requirements. Accordingly, in a particular quarter the majority of our new customer sales represent large sales made to a relatively small number of customers. As such, our failure to close a sale in a particular quarter will impede desired revenue growth unless and until the sale closes. In addition, our sales cycles for our enterprise clients are generally between six months and one year, and in some cases can be longer. As a result, substantial time and cost may be spent attempting to secure a sale that may not be successful. The period between our first sales call on a prospective customer and a contract signing is relatively long due to several factors such as: • the complex nature of our solutions, • the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our solutions, • the relatively long duration of our contracts, • the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchase and budget cycles, • the competitive evaluation of our solutions, • fluctuations in the staffing management requirements of our prospective customers, 17 Table of Contents • announcements or planned introductions of new products by us or our competitors, and • the lengthy purchasing approval processes of our prospective customers. If our sales cycle unexpectedly lengthens, our ability to forecast accurately the timing of sales in any given period will be adversely affected and we may not meet our forecasts for that period. If we fail to develop or acquire new products or enhance our existing products to meet the needs of our existing and future customers, our sales will decline. To keep pace with technological developments, we must satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and services. Any new products we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products that appeal to our target customer base or enhance our existing products or if we fail to price our products to meet market demand, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. To date, we have focused our business on providing solutions for the talent management market, but we may seek to expand into other markets in the future. Our efforts to expand our solutions beyond the talent management market may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to an unproven business, which may harm our existing business. We expect to incur significant expense to develop software products and to integrate acquired software products into existing platforms to maintain our competitive position. These efforts may not result in commercially viable solutions. If we do not receive significant revenue from these investments, our business will be adversely affected. Additionally, we intend to maintain a single version of each release of our software applications that is configurable to meet the needs of our customers. Customers may require customized solutions or features and functions that we do not yet offer and do not intend to offer in future releases, which may cause them to choose a competing solution. Fluctuation in the demand for temporary workers will affect the revenue associated with our Taleo Contingent solution, which may harm our business and operating results. We generate revenue from our Taleo Contingent solution based on a fixed percentage of the dollar amount invoiced for temporary labor procured and managed through this solution. We believe that our Taleo Contingent solution will account for a significant portion of our revenue in future periods. If our customers’ demand for temporary workers declines, or if the general wage rates for temporary workers decline, so will our customers’ associated spending for temporary workers, and, as a result, revenue associated with our Taleo Contingent solution will decrease and our business may suffer. If we do not compete effectively with companies offering talent management solutions, our revenue may not grow and could decline. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense competition from a number of companies. We compete with vendors of enterprise resource planning software such as Oracle and SAP. We also compete with niche point solution vendors such as BrassRing, Deploy Solutions, Hire.com, Hodes iQ, Kenexa, Peopleclick, Recruitmax, Resumix, Unicru, VirtualEdge, Webhire and Workstream that offer products that compete with one or more modules in our suite of solutions. In the area of talent management solutions for temporary employees, we compete primarily with companies such as Beeline, Chimes, Elance, Fieldglass, IQNavigator, and ProcureStaff. Our Taleo Business Edition competes primarily with Hiredesk.com, Hire.com and others. Our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet changing industry standards or the price or performance needs of customers. Increased competition may cause pricing pressure and loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Many of our competitors and potential competitors, especially vendors of enterprise resource planning software, have significantly greater financial, technical, development, marketing, sales, service and other resources than we have. Many of these companies also have a larger installed base of users, longer operating histories and greater brand recognition than we have. Our enterprise resource planning software competitors provide products that may incorporate capabilities in addition to staffing management, such as automated payroll and benefits. Products with such additional functionalities may be appealing to some customers because they can reduce the number of different types of software or applications used to run their business. Our niche competitors’ products may be more effective than our products at performing particular talent management functions or may be more customized for particular customer needs in a given market. Further, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to changes in customer requirements. In some cases, our products may need to be integrated with software provided by our existing or potential competitors. These competitors could alter their products in ways that inhibit integration with our products, or they could deny or delay access by us to advance software releases, which would restrict our ability to adapt our products to facilitate integration with these new releases and could result in lost sales opportunities. In addition, many organizations have developed or may develop internal solutions to address talent management requirements that may be competitive with our solutions. We may lose sales opportunities if we do not successfully develop and maintain strategic relationships to sell and deliver our solutions. We intend to partner with business process outsourcing, or BPO, providers that resell our staffing solution as a component of their outsourced human resource services. We currently have relationships with several of these companies. If customers or potential customers begin to outsource their talent management functions to BPOs that do not resell our solutions, or to BPOs that choose to develop their own solutions, our business will be harmed. In addition, we have relationships with third-party consulting firms, system integrators and software and service vendors who provide us with customer referrals, cooperate with us in marketing our products and provide our customers with system implementation or maintenance services. If we fail to establish new strategic relationships or expand our existing relationships, or should any of these partners fail to work effectively with us or go out of business, our ability to sell our products into new markets and to increase our penetration into existing markets may be impaired. The potential mergers of our competitors or other similar strategic alliances could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenue. If one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future business process outsourcing, or BPO, partners, systems integrators, third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our products and limiting the number of consultants available to implement our solutions. Disruptions in our business caused by these events could reduce our revenue. If we are required to reduce our prices to compete successfully, our margins and operating results could be adversely affected. The intensely competitive market in which we do business may require us to reduce our prices. If our competitors offer discounts on certain products or services we may be required to lower prices or offer our solutions at less favorable terms to us to compete successfully. Several of our larger competitors have significantly greater resources than we have and are better able to absorb short-term losses. Any such changes would likely reduce our margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our competitors may provide fixed price implementations or bundle product offerings that compete with ours for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy. These practices could, over time, limit the prices that we can charge for our products. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the quantity of applications sold, our margins and operating results would be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to customer data, customers may curtail or stop their use of our solutions, which would harm our reputation, operating results, and financial condition. Our solutions involve the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, criminal acts by an employee, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to customer data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. Defects or errors in our products could affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products, which would harm our business. Our products may contain defects or errors, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any product defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. While we test our products for defects or errors prior to product release, defects or errors have been identified from time to time by our customers and may continue to be identified in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability or functionality of our solutions could result in: • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products, • loss of customers, • product liability suits against us, • diversion of development resources, • injury to our reputation, and • increased maintenance and warranty costs. While our software subscription agreements typically contain limitations and disclaimers that should limit our liability for damages related to defects in our software, such limitations and disclaimers may not be upheld by a court or other tribunal or otherwise protect us from such claims. We participate in a new and evolving market, which increases the difficulty of evaluating the effectiveness of our current business strategy and future prospects. You must consider our current business model and prospects for future increases in revenue in light of the risks and difficulties we encounter in the new, uncertain and rapidly evolving talent management market. Because this market is new and evolving, we cannot predict with any assurance the future growth rate and size of this market, which, in comparison with the market for all enterprise software applications, is relatively small. The rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we sell our products and services, as well as other factors that are beyond our control, reduce our ability to evaluate accurately our future prospects and to forecast with a high degree of certainty our projected quarterly or annual performance. Widespread market acceptance of the on demand delivery model is uncertain, and if it does not continue to develop, or develops more slowly than we expect, our business may be harmed. The market for hosted enterprise software is new and, to a large extent, unproven, and there is uncertainty as to whether hosted software will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. The overwhelming majority of our customers access and use our software as a web-based solution that is hosted by us. If the preferences of our customers change and our customers elect to host our software themselves, either 20 Table of Contents upon the initiation of a new agreement or upon the renewal of an existing agreement, we would experience a decrease in revenue from hosting fees, and potentially higher costs and greater complexity in providing maintenance and support for our software. Additionally, a very limited number of our customers have the contractual right to elect to host our software themselves prior to the expiration of their subscription agreements with us. If the number of customers purchasing hosting services from us decreases, we might not be able to decrease our expenses related to hosting infrastructure in the short term if the demand for such hosting services decreases. Potential customers may be reluctant or unwilling to allow a vendor to host software or internal data on their behalf for a number of reasons, including security and data privacy concerns. If such organizations do not recognize the benefits of the on demand delivery model, then the market for our solutions may not develop at all, or may develop more slowly than we expect. If we fail to manage our hosting infrastructure capacity satisfactorily, our existing customers may experience service outages and our new customers may experience delays in the deployment of our solution. We have experienced significant growth in the number of users, transactions, and data that our hosting infrastructure supports. Failure to address the increasing demands on our hosting infrastructure satisfactorily may result in service outages, delays or disruptions. For example, we have experienced downtimes within our hosting infrastructure, some of which have been significant, which have prevented customers from using our solutions from time to time. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our hosting infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our customers. We also maintain excess capacity to facilitate the rapid provisioning of new customer deployments and expansion of existing customer deployments. The development of new hosting infrastructure to keep pace with expanding storage and processing requirements could be a significant cost to us that we are not able to predict accurately and for which we are not able to budget significantly in advance. Such outlays could raise our cost of goods sold and be detrimental to our financial results. At the same time, the development of new hosting infrastructure requires significant lead time. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements, our existing customers may experience service outages that may subject us to financial penalties, financial liabilities and the loss of customers. If our hosting infrastructure capacity fails to keep pace with sales, customers may experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenue growth. Any significant disruption in our computing and communications infrastructure could harm our reputation, result in a loss of customers and adversely affect our business. Our computing and communications infrastructure is a critical part of our business operations. The vast majority of our customers access our solutions through a standard web browser. Our customers depend on us for fast and reliable access to our applications. Much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of members of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our applications. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, serious disruptions in our computing and communications infrastructure. Factors that may cause such disruptions include: • human error, • physical or electronic security breaches, • telecommunications outages from third-party providers, • computer viruses, • acts of terrorism or sabotage, • fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters, and • power loss. Although we back up data stored on our systems at least daily, our infrastructure does not currently include real-time, or near real-time, mirroring of data storage and production capacity in more than one 21 Table of Contents geographically distinct location. Thus, in the event of a physical disaster, or certain other failures of our computing infrastructure, customer data from recent transactions may be permanently lost. We have computing and communications hardware operations located at third-party facilities with Internap in New York City and with IBM in San Jose, California. We do not control the operation of these facilities and must rely on these vendors to provide the physical security, facilities management and communications infrastructure services to ensure the reliable and consistent delivery of our solutions to our customers. Although we believe we would be able to enter into a similar relationship with another third party should one of these relationships fail or terminate for any reason, we believe our reliance on any third-party vendor exposes us to risks outside of our control. If these third-party vendors encounter financial difficulty such as bankruptcy or other events beyond our control that cause them to fail to secure adequately and maintain their hosting facilities or provide the required data communications capacity, our customers may experience interruptions in our service or the loss or theft of important customer data. We have experienced system failures in the past. If our customers experience service interruptions or the loss or theft of their data caused by us, we may be subject to financial penalties, financial liability or customer losses. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. We must retain key employees and recruit qualified technical and sales personnel or our future success and business could be harmed. We believe that our success will depend on the continued employment of our senior management and other key employees, such as our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer. For example, we recently hired several senior management positions, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer in the first quarter of 2005, and our continued success will depend on their effective integration into and management of us. There can be no assurance that our management team will be able to be integrated into our business and work together effectively. Our current senior management and employees have only worked together for a relatively short period of time as a result of recent changes in senior management. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. Additionally, our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. In particular, we have recently hired a significant number of sales personnel who may take some period of time to become fully productive. We generally find it difficult to find qualified personnel with relevant experience in both technology sales and human capital management. Because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to retain qualified engineers with the requisite education, background and industry experience. In particular, because our research and development facilities are primarily located in Quebec, we are substantially dependent on that labor market to attract qualified engineers. The loss of the services of a significant number of our engineers or sales people could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships. If we lose the services of one or more of our senior management or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise to compete with us, our business could be harmed. We currently derive a material portion of our revenue from international operations and expect to expand our international operations. However, we do not have substantial experience in international markets, and may not achieve the expected results. During the year ended December 31, 2005, revenue generated outside the United States was 12% of total revenue, with Canada accounting for 7% of total revenue. We currently have international offices in Australia, Canada, France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. We may expand our international operations, which will involve a variety of risks, including: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions, • differing regulations in Quebec with regard to maintaining operations, products and public information in both French and English, 22 Table of Contents • differing labor regulations, especially in France and Quebec, where labor laws are generally more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations in these locations, • more stringent regulations relating to data privacy and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in Europe and Canada, • greater difficulty in supporting and localizing our products, • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, • challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs, • limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection, and • restrictions on repatriation of earnings. We have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services abroad. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will suffer. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of foreign currencies could result in currency transaction losses, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. We currently have foreign sales denominated in foreign currencies, including the Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Euro, New Zealand dollar, British pound and Swiss franc, and may in the future have sales denominated in the currencies of additional countries in which we establish or have established sales offices. In addition, we incur a substantial portion of our operating expenses in Canadian dollars and, to a much lesser extent, other foreign currencies. Any fluctuation in the exchange rate of these foreign currencies may negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results. For example, the Canadian dollar increased in value by approximately 7% and 8% over the U.S. dollar during 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2005, this change resulted in a net decrease to our earnings of $1.6 million, and was comprised of increased revenues of $0.4 million, increased cost of sales of $0.6 million, and increased operating expenses of $1.3 million. In 2004, this change resulted in a net decrease to our earnings of $1.4 million, and was comprised of increased revenues of $0.4 million, increased cost of sales of $0.6 million, and increased operating expenses of $1.2 million. We have not previously engaged in foreign currency hedging. If we decide to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we may not be able to hedge effectively due to lack of experience, unreasonable costs or illiquid markets. If we fail to defend our proprietary rights aggressively, our competitive advantage could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenue, and incur costly litigation fees to protect our rights. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. We do not have any issued or pending patents and do not rely on patent protection. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our licensed products may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries in which we operate. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our 23 Table of Contents employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances. No assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from developing technologies independently that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. Initiating legal action may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could seriously harm our business. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are subject to a protracted infringement claim or a claim that results in a significant award for damages. We expect that software product developers such as ourselves will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. For example, the holder of patent number 6,701,313B1 has verbally asserted that he believes our software products infringe upon his patent. We have reviewed this matter and we believe that our software products do not infringe upon any valid and enforceable claim of his patent. In addition, a competitor has written us to request that we enter into licensing discussions or to advise them as to why we believe a functionality contained in some of our product offerings is not covered by their patent number 5,999,939. We have reviewed this matter and we believe that our software products do not infringe upon any valid and enforceable claim of his patent. We believe that this patent would apply, if at all, to an optional feature of our product offerings used by some of our customers. To date, we are not aware of any legal claim that has been filed against us regarding these matters, but we can give no assurance that claims will not be filed. Our competitors or other third parties may also challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property rights. A claim may also be made relating to technology that we acquire or license from third parties. If we were subject to a claim of infringement, regardless of the merit of the claim or our defenses, the claim could: • require costly litigation to resolve and the payment of substantial damages, • require significant management time, • cause us to enter into unfavorable royalty or license agreements, • require us to discontinue the sale of our products, • require us to indemnify our customers or third-party service providers, or • require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our products. We may also be required to indemnify our customers and third-party service providers for third-party products that are incorporated into our products and that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Although many of these third parties are obligated to indemnify us if their products infringe the rights of others, this indemnification may not be adequate. In addition, from time to time there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. We use open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products. We employ technology licensed from third parties for use in or with our solutions, and the loss or inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs, or reduced service levels, which would adversely affect our business. We include in the distribution of our solutions certain technology obtained under licenses from other companies, such as Oracle for database software, Business Objects for reporting software and web Methods for integration software. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology and development tools from 24 Table of Contents third parties in the future. Although we believe that there are commercially reasonable software alternatives to the third-party software we currently license, this may not always be the case, or we may license third-party software that is more difficult or costly to replace than the third party software we currently license. In addition, integration of our products with new third-party software may require significant work and require substantial allocation of our time and resources. Also, to the extent that our products depend upon the successful operation of third-party products in conjunction with our products, any undetected errors in these third-party products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions and injure our reputation. Our use of additional or alternative third-party software would require us to enter into license agreements with third parties, which could result in higher costs. Failure to implement the appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth could harm our ability to expand our business, our operating results, and our overall financial condition. We experienced a period of rapid growth in our operations, which has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational, technical and financial infrastructure. For example, in 2005 we completed an acquisition which added a new product line, became an SEC reporting company, completed our initial public offering and increased revenues from $58.7 million to $78.4 million. To manage our growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management processes and controls and our reporting systems and procedures. While the Company is focused on the need for improved processes and controls, to date the Company has had a difficult time hiring sufficient personnel and implementing appropriate procedures to remediate existing deficiencies. For example, the Company had material weaknesses in each of 2005 and 2004. In addition, we are in the process of moving many of our administrative functions, including much of our finance department, from Quebec City to San Francisco to support our continued growth and integration with management. This move is disruptive to our core business and has increased strain on our management and employees. These efforts may require us to make significant capital expenditures or incur significant expenses, and divert the attention of our personnel from our core business operations, any of which may adversely affect our financial performance. If we fail to manage our growth successfully, our business, operating results, and overall financial condition will be adversely affected. We currently have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and have restated our previously issued financial results. If we are unable to improve and maintain the quality of our system of internal control over financial reporting, any deficiencies could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information about our company. In December 2005 and in connection with the December 31, 2005 year end audit of our financial statements, management and our independent registered public accounting firm identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. These were matters that in our judgment could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data consistent with the assertions of management in our financial statements. Under Auditing Standard No. 2 issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) these deficiencies were deemed to be material weaknesses. In particular, we discovered errors in respect to depreciation of fixed assets, and accrual of dividends on preferred stock which required adjustment. As a result, the Company has restated its consolidated financial statements as further detailed elsewhere in this document. We also determined a failure to appropriately apply Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) to certain aspects of our financial reporting resulting from the lack of a properly designed financial reporting process and a lack of sufficient technical accounting expertise. Certain of such deficiencies were also deemed to be material weaknesses. We have begun to remediate all known material weaknesses and significant deficiencies; however, we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken will ensure that we will maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain effective controls or to adequately implement required new or improved controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. 25 Table of Contents We are in the process of reviewing and redesigning our internal controls over financial reporting related to our closing procedures and processes, our calculations of our reported numbers, including depreciation expense, fixed assets and accrual of dividends on preferred stock, and the need to strengthen our technical accounting expertise. Specifically, we have undertaken the following actions: • purchased a new general accounting system; a new system for accounting for revenues and deferred revenues; and a new system for accounting for stock options; • begun to implement and document policies around closing processes; • improved detective controls with greater financial analysis relating to operational metrics that drive our financial results; • hired personnel with more experience in financial reporting and accounting processes than the incumbent group and are seeking additional technical accounting resources; • begun the process of transferring certain of our accounting functions to our head office; and • begun the process of benchmarking our internal financial operations and improving internal controls over financial reporting and implementing best practices in business processes. We believe these steps, when completed and fully implemented, will address our material weaknesses and significant deficiencies. We expect to continue to enhance our internal controls over financial reporting by adding resources in key functional areas and to take steps to increase our level of documentation, enhance segregation of duties, and bring systems security and transactional control procedures to a higher level. We have discussed and disclosed these matters to the audit committee of our board of directors and will continue to do so. We currently expect to complete these remedial steps by the third quarter of 2006. We believe the costs associated with these remedial measures will be material, including the purchases of new accounting systems and related consulting which could cost in excess of $1 million. As discussed above, we have restated our financial statements due to the material weaknesses referenced above relating to errors in depreciation of fixed assets and accrual of dividends on preferred stock (see Note 2 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements). In 2004, we restated our consolidated financial statements for 2003. Execution of these restatements has created a significant strain on our internal resources, and has increased our costs and caused management distraction. We believe that any future restatements would likely cause additional strain on our operations. In addition, the fact we have had restatements in 2004 and 2005 may cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report will contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Such report must also contain a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2006, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. Difficulties that we may encounter in managing changes in the size of our business could affect our operating results adversely. Our business has experienced rapid growth in employee count since inception through both internal expansion and acquisitions. In 2005, we began taking steps to align our resources with our operating requirements in order to increase our efficiency. Through these steps, we have reduced our headcount and incurred charges for employee severance. As many employees are located in Quebec, Canada, we will have to 26 Table of Contents pay the severance amounts legally required in such jurisdiction, which may exceed those of the United States. While we believe that these steps help us achieve greater operating efficiency, we have limited history with such measures and the results of these measures are difficult to predict. Additional restructuring efforts may be required. In order to manage our business effectively, we must continually manage headcount in an efficient manner. Our productivity and the quality of our products may be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our employees quickly and effectively and coordinate among our executive, engineering, finance, marketing, sales, operations, and customer support organizations, all of which add to the complexity of our organization. We believe reductions in our workforce, management changes, and facility consolidation create anxiety and uncertainty, and may adversely affect employee morale. These measures could adversely affect our employees that we wish to retain and may also adversely affect our ability to hire new personnel. They may also negatively affect customers. In addition, our revenues may not grow in alignment with our headcount. Failure to manage our customer deployments effectively could increase our expenses and cause customer dissatisfaction. Enterprise deployments of our products require a substantial understanding of our customers’ businesses, and the resulting configuration of our solutions to their business processes and integration with their existing systems. We may encounter difficulties in managing the timeliness of these deployments and the allocation of personnel and resources by us or our customers. In certain situations, we also work with third-party service providers in the implementation or software integration-related services of our solutions, and we may experience difficulties in managing such third parties. Failure to manage customer implementation or software integration-related services successfully by us or our third-party service providers could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing customers, face potential customer disputes or limit the rate at which new customers purchase our solutions. Acquisitions and investments present many risks, and we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions, which would harm our business, operating results and overall financial condition. In addition, we have limited experience in acquiring and integrating other companies. We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions or investments in companies, products, services, and technologies to expand our product offerings, customer base and business. We have limited experience in executing acquisitions. In October 2003, we acquired White Amber, a privately-held company that provided a temporary talent management solution, which we introduced as our Taleo Contingent solution, and in March 2005, we acquired Recruitforce.com to enable us to extend our offerings to small and medium-sized organizations. Such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including the following: • learning that we are unable to achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, • discovering that we may have difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations, and personnel of the acquired business, and may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business, • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations, • we may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies or products, including our Taleo Contingent solution and the software acquired in the Recruitforce acquisition, into our existing code base, • there may be customer confusion regarding the positioning of acquired technologies or products, • we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations, • we may have difficulty retaining the acquired business’ customers, and • we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. 27 Table of Contents For example, with respect to our acquisition of White Amber, we expended significant management time in attending to integration activities relating to employee relations and benefits matters, integration of product pricing, and the consolidation of other infrastructure to common systems. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. The consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. If we should proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. To the extent that we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, material one-time write-offs, or purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring charges. They may also result in recording goodwill and other intangible assets in our financial statements which may be subject to future impairment charges or ongoing amortization costs, thereby reducing future earnings. Unfavorable economic conditions and reductions in information technology spending could limit our ability to grow our business. Our operating results may vary based on the impact of changes in global economic conditions on our customers. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for enterprise application software and services. Most of our revenue is currently derived from large organizations whose businesses fluctuate with general economic and business conditions. As a result, a softening of demand for enterprise application software and services, and in particular enterprise talent management solutions, caused by a weakening global economy may cause a decline in our revenue. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in corporate information technology spending. In the future, potential customers may decide to reduce their information technology budgets by deferring or reconsidering product purchases, which could reduce our future earnings. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in generally accepted accounting principles. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and various other organizations formed to promulgate and interpret accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our historical or projected financial results. For example, we have not historically been required to record stock-based compensation charges if an employee’s stock option exercise price is equal to or exceeds the deemed fair value of the underlying security at the measurement date. However, beginning January 1, 2006, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,” or SFAS 123R, requires companies to expense the fair value of employee stock options and similar awards. SFAS 123R addresses accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in exchange for share-based payments. SFAS 123R requires entities to recognize stock compensation expense for awards of equity instruments to employees based on the grant-date fair value of those awards, with limited exceptions. The effect of this pronouncement on our results of operations will be material. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact and implementation of SFAS 123R. If tax benefits currently available under the tax laws of Quebec are reduced or repealed, or if we have taken an incorrect position with respect to tax matters under discussion with the Canadian Revenue Authority, our business could suffer. The majority of our research and development activities are conducted through our Canadian subsidiary, Taleo (Canada) Inc. We participate in a government program in Quebec that provides investment credits based upon qualifying research and development expenditures. These expenditures primarily consist of the salaries for the persons conducting research and development activities. We have participated in the program 28 Table of Contents for five years, and expect that we will continue to receive these investment tax credits through September 2008. In 2005, we recorded a $2.1 million reduction in our research and development expenses as a result of this program. We anticipate the continued reduction of our research and development expenses through 2008. If these investment tax benefits are reduced or eliminated, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, we are in the process of an audit by the Canada Revenue Agency relating to transfer pricing for the transfer of intellectual property between our subsidiaries, in which the Canada Revenue Agency has proposed a reassessment of Cdn $9.4 million in respect of our 1999 taxation year; we are in the process of disputing the reassessment. In addition, we may receive reassessments for subsequent taxation years. We are currently unable to evaluate the likelihood that we will prevail on our historical treatment of our transfer pricing or the amount we might be required to pay, if any, in the event of an adverse result. If the Canada Revenue Agency disagrees with our interpretation, our financial results would be adversely affected. Evolving regulation of the Internet may increase our expenditures related to compliance efforts, which may adversely affect our financial condition. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. We are particularly sensitive to these risks because the Internet is a critical component of our business model. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for solutions accessed via the Internet and restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our customers via the Internet. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of internet-based services, which could harm our business. Current and future litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are regularly subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, overall financial condition, and operating results. If we fail to develop our brand cost-effectively, our customers may not recognize our brand and we may incur significant expenses, which would harm our business and financial condition. In March 2004 we changed our name from Recruitsoft, Inc. to Taleo Corporation and we continue our rebranding efforts. For example, we recently adopted a new corporate logo. We may need to incur substantial expense and the rebranding effort may require more time than we anticipate before our brand gains broad recognition within our industry. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future solutions and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market intensifies. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely upon the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful solutions at competitive prices. In the past, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expense, and we expect to increase that expense in connection with our rebranding and marketing processes. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to promote successfully and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business could suffer. 29 Table of Contents Our stock price is likely to be volatile and could decline, resulting in a substantial loss on your investment. The stock market in general and the market for technology-related stocks in particular has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our Class A common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our Class A common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies, • the overall performance of the equity markets, • developments with respect to intellectual property rights, • publication of unfavorable research reports about us or our industry or withdrawal of research, • coverage by securities analysts, • speculation in the press or investment community, • terrorist acts, and • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new technologies, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures, or capital commitments. Our principal stockholders will have a controlling influence over our business affairs and may make business decisions with which you disagree and which may adversely affect the value of your investment. Our executive officers, directors, major stockholders and their affiliates beneficially own or control, indirectly or directly, a substantial number of shares of our Class A and Class B common stock. As a result, if some of these persons or entities act together, they will have the ability to control matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and the approval of any business combination. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. We may need to raise additional capital, which may not be available, thereby adversely affecting our ability to operate our business. If we need to raise additional funds due to unforeseen circumstances or continued operating losses, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, and any additional financings could result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to meet our business objectives, our stock price may fall and you may lose some or all of your investment. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could increase the difficulty for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. For example, if a potential acquiror were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquirer would not be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors or act by written consent without a meeting. In addition, our board of directors has staggered terms, which means that replacing a majority of our directors would require at least two annual meetings. The acquirer would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to replace directors at any annual meeting, and will not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which will require the acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on the board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. 30 Table of Contents Our board of directors also has the ability to issue preferred stock that could significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% or greater stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. The requirements of being a public company has been, and may continue to be, a strain on our resources, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are subject to a number of requirements, including the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the listing standards of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. These requirements have placed a strain on our systems and resources and will likely continue to do so. The Securities Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We have had two restatements of historical financial information in 2005 and believe that we have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that will require significant remediation. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. As a result, our management’s attention might be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, we might need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company reporting experience and technical accounting knowledge, and we might not be able to do so in a timely fashion. The listing standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market require, among other things, that within a year of the date of our proposed initial public offering all of the members of committees of our board of directors, including our audit committee, consist of independent directors. We might not be able to retain our independent directors, or attract new independent directors, for our committees. Holders of our Class B common stock vote with our Class A common stock, which dilutes the voting power of our Class A common stockholders. 4,038,287 shares of our Class B common stock are held by holders of our exchangeable shares in order to allow them voting rights in Taleo without having to exchange their shares in 9090-5415 Quebec Inc. and suffer the corresponding Canadian tax consequences. These Class B shares vote as a class with our Class A common stock and, upon exchange of the exchangeable shares for Class A common stock, will be redeemed on the basis of one share of Class B common stock redeemed for each one share of Class A common stock issued. Therefore, approximately 18% of the voting power of our outstanding shares as of December 31, 2005, is held by the Class B common stockholders and will continue to be held by them until they decide to exchange their exchangeable shares. Accordingly, our Class B common stock constitutes, and is expected to continue to constitute, a significant portion of the shares entitled to vote on all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. We have recently signed a lease on a new headquarters facility that is incremental to an existing lease on our current headquarters facility. If we are not able to successfully sublease our existing headquarters facility, or our growth rates slow and we then have excess real estate at our new headquarters facility, we may need to recognize a loss on our facilities leases. We leased a 35,000 square foot facility in Dublin, California in March 2006 for a seven year term as our new headquarters facility. In addition, we have approximately 12,000 square feet of space on our existing headquarters facility in San Francisco, California that we have currently listed for sublease. We have made certain assumptions relating to occupancy, the costs that will be incurred to satisfy our lease payments and operating costs, and the time necessary to sublease our existing headquarters, as well as projected future sublease rental rates and the anticipated durations of future subleases. We have not recognized a loss on our 31 Table of Contents estimated sublease income; however, we may need to change our estimate of liability, the effect of which could be a material reduction in net income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 