ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment. We have a history of losses, and we cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability. With the exception of the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2009, we have incurred annual losses in every year since our inception. As of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $77.0 million, comprised of aggregate net losses of $63.2 million and $13.8 million of dividends and issuance costs on preferred stock. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, we reported net income of $1.3 million. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. As we continue to incur costs associated with regulatory compliance and implement initiatives to grow our business, which include, among other things, acquisitions, international expansion and new product development, any failure to increase revenue or manage our cost structure could prevent us from achieving or sustaining profitability. For instance, in the year ended December 31, 2009, our profitability was negatively impacted by amortization expense associated with our acquisition of Vurv. In the near term, we expect to continue to incur significant amortization expense associated with both the July 1, 2008 acquisition of Vurv Technology, Inc. (“Vurv”) and the January 1, 2010 acquisition of Worldwide Compensation, Inc. (“WWC”). In addition, we may incur losses as a result of revenue shortfalls or increased expenses associated with our business. As a result, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Unfavorable economic conditions and reductions in information technology spending could limit our ability to grow our business. Our operating results may vary based on the impact of changes in economic conditions globally and within the industries in which our customers operate. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for enterprise application software and services. Our revenue is derived from organizations whose businesses may fluctuate with global economic and business conditions. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in corporate information technology spending. Accordingly, the current downturn in global economic conditions has weakened and may continue to weaken demand for our software and services. For example, we believe that customer budget cuts and the lack of available credit for small- and medium-sized organizations have negatively impacted sales of our Taleo Business Edition solutions, and we believe that sales of our Taleo Enterprise solutions have been negatively affected by economic conditions as well. In addition, an economic decline impacting a particular industry may negatively impact demand for our software and services in the affected industry. Many of the industries we serve, including financial services, manufacturing (including automobile manufacturing), technology and retail, have recently suffered a downturn in economic and business conditions and may continue to do so. A softening of demand for enterprise application software and services, and in particular enterprise talent management solutions, caused by a weakening global economy or economic downturn in a particular sector would adversely affect our business and likely cause a decline in our revenue. We will likely experience longer sales cycles, increased pricing pressure and decreased demand for certain of our services as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. If general economic conditions worsen or fail to improve, we will likely continue to experience the conditions that began in the first quarter of 2008 of increased delays in our sales cycles and increased pressure 15 Table of Contents from prospective customers to offer discounts higher than our historical practices. We may also experience increased pressure from existing customers to renew expiring software subscriptions agreements at lower rates. In addition, certain of our customers may attempt to negotiate lower software subscription fees for existing arrangements because of downturns in their businesses. If we accept certain requests for higher discounts or lower fees, our business may be adversely affected and our revenues may decline. Also, in a difficult economic environment, our existing customers may elect not to purchase additional education and consulting services from us outside of the context of new product implementations, which we refer to as standalone engagements. Additionally, certain of our customers have become or may become bankrupt or insolvent as a result of the current economic downturn, and we may lose all future revenue from such customers and payment of receivables may be lower or delayed as a result of bankruptcy proceedings. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Vurv, which could adversely affect our operating results and cause the price of our common stock to decline. On July 1, 2008, we completed our acquisition of Vurv, our largest acquisition to date. We have limited experience in integrating an acquired company of Vurv’s size, and our acquisition of Vurv subjects us to a number of risks, including the following: • we may have difficulty renewing former Vurv customers at the expiration of their current agreements; • we may be unable to convert certain Vurv customers — including in particular those that previously entered into perpetual licenses and customer on-premise hosting arrangements — to the Taleo platform and our vendor-hosted subscription model; • we may find it difficult to support or migrate Vurv customers that are using specific customized versions of the Vurv software to our solutions, as we historically have maintained a single version of each release of our software applications without customer-specific code customization. Additionally, certain customized versions of the legacy Vurv software may not have been subject to the same level of data security review that Taleo has historically required; • we will incur additional expense to maintain and support the Vurv product lines for up to three years while customers are migrated to the Taleo platform; and • we may find it difficult to integrate Vurv’s hosting infrastructure and operations with our own hosting operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with our acquisition of Vurv. To the extent that we are unable to successfully manage these risks, our business, operating results, or financial condition could be adversely affected, and the price of our common stock could decline. Because we recognize software subscription revenue over the term of the agreements for our software subscriptions, a significant downturn in our business may not be reflected immediately in our operating results, which increases the difficulty of evaluating our future financial position. We generally recognize revenue from software subscription agreements ratably over the terms of these agreements, which are typically three or more years for our Taleo Enterprise customers and one year for our Taleo Business Edition customers. As a result, a substantial majority of our software subscription revenue in each quarter is generated from software subscription agreements entered into during prior periods. Consequently, a decline in new software subscription agreements in any one quarter may not affect our results of operations in that quarter, but will reduce our revenue in future quarters. Additionally, the timing of renewals or non-renewals of a software subscription agreement during any one quarter may affect our financial performance in that particular quarter or may not affect our financial performance until the next quarter. For example, because we recognize revenue ratably, the non-renewal of a software subscription agreement late in a quarter will have very little impact on revenue for that quarter, but will reduce our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales and market acceptance of our solutions may not be reflected in our short-term results 16 Table of Contents of operations, which would make these reported results less indicative of our future financial results. By contrast, a non-renewal occurring early in a quarter may have a significant negative impact on revenue for that quarter and we may not be able to offset a decline in revenue due to such non-renewals with revenue from new software subscription agreements entered into in the same quarter. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our costs in response to reduced revenue. Because of the way we are required to recognize our consulting revenue under applicable accounting guidance, consulting revenue reported for a particular period may not be indicative of trends in our consulting business, which increases the difficulty of evaluating our future financial position. During 2009 and prior years, when we sold software subscriptions and consulting services in a single arrangement, we recognized revenue from consulting services ratably over the term of the software subscription agreement, which is typically three or more years, rather than as the consulting services were delivered, which is typically during the first six to nine months of a software subscription agreement. Accordingly, a significant portion of the revenue for consulting services performed in any quarterly reporting period prior to 2010 was deferred to future periods. As a result, our consulting revenue for any quarterly reporting period may not be reflective of the consulting services delivered during the reporting period or of the business trends with respect to our consulting services business. Further, since we recognize expenses related to our consulting services in the period in which the expenses are incurred, the consulting margins we report in any quarterly reporting period may not be indicative of the actual gross margin on consulting services delivered during the reporting period. In October 2009 the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new accounting guidance for revenue arrangements that contain multiple components to be delivered to a customer. Under the new standard each revenue component is considered a separate deliverable and the standard provides guidance for establishing fair value for each deliverable. When vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of selling price for deliverables in an arrangement cannot be determined, companies will be required to develop a best estimate of the selling price of each separate deliverable and allocate consideration for the arrangement using the relative selling price method. This guidance is effective as of the beginning of an entity’s fiscal year that begins after June 15, 2010; however, early adoption is permitted. We have elected to adopt the new guidance as of January 1, 2010. In the context of our typical arrangements in which software subscriptions and consulting services are sold together, the new guidance will result in the consulting services revenue in such arrangements being recognized as delivered. We expect substantially all of our revenue from consulting service arrangements entered into on or after January 1, 2010 to be recognized as the consulting services are delivered, while consulting revenue from combined software subscription and consulting services arrangements entered into prior to 2010 will continue to be recognized ratably over the term of the software subscription agreement. The application of these two revenue recognition methodologies will result in our consulting revenue for the foreseeable future including a mix of revenue from consulting services delivered during the reporting period and consulting services delivered in previous reporting periods. If our existing customers do not renew their software subscriptions and buy additional solutions from us, our business will suffer. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from renewal of software subscriptions and, to a lesser extent, service fees from our existing customers. As a result, maintaining the renewal rate of our software subscriptions is critical to our future success. Factors that may affect the renewal rate for our solutions include: • the price, performance and functionality of our solutions; • the availability, price, performance and functionality of competing products and services; • the effectiveness of our maintenance and support services; 17 Table of Contents • our ability to develop complementary products and services; and • the stability, performance and security of our hosting infrastructure and hosting services. Most of our Taleo Enterprise customers enter into software subscription agreements with duration of three years or more from the initial contract date. Most of our Taleo Business Edition customers enter into annual software subscription agreements. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our solutions after the expiration of the initial term of their agreements. In addition, our customers may negotiate terms less advantageous to us upon renewal, which may reduce our revenue from these customers. Under certain circumstances, our customers may cancel their subscriptions for our solutions prior to the expiration of the term. Our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to sell new products and services to our existing customers. If our customers terminate their agreements, fail to renew their agreements, renew their agreements upon less favorable terms, or fail to buy new products and services from us, our revenue may decline or our future revenue may be constrained. If our efforts to attract new customers are not successful, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. In order to grow our business, we must continually add new customers. Our ability to attract new customers will depend in large part on the success of our sales and marketing efforts. However, our prospective customers may not be familiar with our solutions, or may have traditionally used other products and services for their talent management requirements. In addition, our prospective customers may develop their own solutions to address their talent management requirements, purchase competitive product offerings, or engage third-party providers of outsourced talent management services that do not use our solution to provide their services. If our prospective customers do not perceive our products and services to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to attract new customers. In addition, certain of our prospective customers may delay the purchasing of, or choose not to purchase, our products as a result of the current negative general economic conditions or downturns in their businesses. If we do not compete effectively with companies offering talent management solutions, our revenue may not grow and could decline. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense competition from a number of companies. Our Taleo Enterprise solution competes with enterprise resource planning software from vendors such as Oracle Corporation and SAP AG, and also with products and services from vendors such as ADP, Cezanne, Cornerstone OnDemand, Halogen Software, HRSmart, Jobpartners, Kenexa, Kronos, Peopleclick Authoria, Pilat, Plateau, Saba, Salary.com, Stepstone, SuccessFactors, SumTotal Systems, Technomedia, TEDS, Workday, and Workstream. Our Taleo Business Edition solution competes primarily with ADP, Bullhorn, Halogen Software, iCIMs, KMS Software Company, Monster, SilkRoad Technology, SuccessFactors and Talent Technology Corporation. Our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet changing industry standards or the price or performance needs of customers. Increased competition may cause pricing pressure and loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, development, marketing, sales, service and other resources than we have. Some of these companies also have a larger installed base of customers, longer operating histories and greater brand recognition than we have. Certain of our competitors provide products that incorporate capabilities which are not available in our current suite of solutions, such as automated payroll and benefits, or services that we do not currently offer, such as recruitment process outsourcing services. Products with such additional functionalities may be appealing to some customers because they can reduce the number of different types of software or applications used to run their business and such additional services may be viewed by some customers as enhancing the effectiveness of a competitor’s solutions. In addition, our competitors’ products may be more effective than our products at performing particular talent management functions or may be more customized for particular customer needs in a given market. Further, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to changes in customer requirements. 18 Table of Contents Our customers often require our products to be integrated with software provided by our existing or potential competitors. These competitors could alter their products in ways that inhibit integration with our products, or they could deny or delay access by us to advance software releases, which would restrict our ability to adapt our products to facilitate integration with these new releases and could result in lost sales opportunities. In addition, many organizations have developed or may develop internal solutions to address talent management requirements that may be competitive with our solutions. The consolidation or acquisition of our competitors or other similar strategic alliances could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenue. There has been vendor consolidation in the market in which we operate. For example, recently Peopleclick was acquired by Bedford Funding, a private equity firm that also acquired Authoria in 2008. Additional consolidation within our industry may change the competitive landscape in ways that adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future BPO partners, HRO partners, systems integrators, third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our products and limiting the number of consultants available to implement our solutions. Disruptions in our business caused by these events could reduce our revenue. The results of our review of our revenue recognition practices and resulting restatement has had adverse effects on our financial results and has resulted in litigation and may continue to have adverse effects on our financial results. In March 2009, we announced that we had completed a review of our revenue recognition practices and, as a result of this review, we restated certain financial statements. Our review of our revenue recognition practices and the resulting restatement of our historical financial statements have required us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal, and other expenses. The accounting, legal and other expenses associated with the restatement have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Also, litigation has been filed against us and certain of our current and former officers relating to a failure to apply accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, in the reporting of quarterly and annual financial statements and securities prospectuses from the time of our initial public offering to our most recent filing with the SEC. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 for a more detailed description of these proceedings. Though the complaint in these proceedings has been dismissed, these proceedings are in the preliminary stages, and plaintiff has been granted leave to amend and re-file its complaint. The ultimate outcome of these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price for our securities. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of this litigation could result in further significant expenditures and diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our business. While we maintain standard directors and officers insurance, all or a portion of any amount we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these claims may not be covered by insurance. We have had to restate our historical financial statements. In October 2009, we announced that, after upgrading to a new version of the equity program administration software that we license from a third-party provider, we identified differences in the stock-based compensation expense of prior periods and, after reviewing such differences, identified an error in our accounting for stock-based compensation expense. As a result of identifying the error, in October 2009, we concluded that accounting adjustments were necessary to correct certain previously issued financial statements. Accordingly, we restated those financial statements and recorded total cumulative additional stock-based compensation expense of 19 Table of Contents approximately $2.6 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and the quarters ended June 30, 2009 and March 31, 2009. Specifically, we recorded increases in stock-based compensation expense of approximately $1.3 million in fiscal 2007, $1.2 million in fiscal 2006 and $0.3 million in the quarter ended June 30, 2009, and recorded reductions in stock-based compensation expense of approximately $0.1 million in fiscal 2008 and $0.1 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2009. In connection with this restatement, we determined that there was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009. Specifically, our controls to calculate stock-based compensation expense related to the application of the forfeiture rate were not designed effectively, and a material weakness existed in the design of the controls over the calculation of stock-based compensation expense related to the application of the forfeiture rate as of those periods. In addition, in March 2009, we announced that we had completed a review of our revenue recognition practices and, as a result of this review, we restated certain financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. The restatement resulted in the deferral to future periods of $18 million of consulting services revenue and approximately $0.2 million in application revenue previously recognized through June 30, 2008. Amounts in our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 through 2007, and the interim consolidated financial statements for each of the periods ended March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008, have been corrected for the timing of revenue recognition for consulting services revenue during these periods, as well as to correct an error relating to the timing of revenue recognition for set-up fees, an element of our application services revenue. In connection with such review we identified certain control deficiencies relating to the application of applicable accounting literature related to revenue recognition. These deficiencies constituted a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2008, which led to items requiring correction in our historical financial statements and our conclusion to restate such financial statements to correct those items. Specifically, the control deficiencies related to our failure to correctly interpret EITF 00-21 in determining the proper accounting treatment when application and consulting services are sold together. We cannot be certain that the measures we have taken since these restatements will ensure that restatements will not occur in the future. Execution of restatements like the ones described above could create a significant strain on our internal resources and cause delays in our filing of quarterly or annual financial results, increase our costs and cause management distraction. Failure to implement and maintain the appropriate internal controls over financial reporting could negatively affect our ability to provide accurate and timely financial information. Prior to the filing of our financial results for the period ended March 31, 2007, we identified a material weakness in connection with the evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls as of March 31, 2007 related to the identification of a material required adjustment, which affected cash, accounts receivable and cash flow from operations. Additionally in the third quarter of 2008, we identified certain control deficiencies relating to the application of applicable accounting literature related to revenue recognition. These deficiencies constituted a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2008. In October 2009, we determined that there was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009. Specifically, our controls to calculate stock-based compensation expense related to the application of the forfeiture rate were not designed effectively, and a material weakness existed in the design of the controls over the calculation of stock-based compensation expense related to the application of the forfeiture rate as of those periods. As part of our ongoing processes we will continue to focus on improvements in our controls over financial reporting. We have discussed deficiencies in our financial reporting and our remediation of such deficiencies with the audit committee of our board of directors and will continue to do so as required. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to remediate all deficiencies in the future. Any current or future deficiencies could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. 20 Table of Contents We have previously not been in compliance with SEC reporting requirements and NASDAQ listing requirements. If we again fail to remain in compliance with SEC reporting requirements and NASDAQ listing requirements, there may be a material adverse effect on our business and our stockholders. As a consequence of our review of our revenue recognition practices and resulting restatement of our historical financial statements, we were delayed until April 30, 2009 in filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008 with the SEC. During the period of such delay, we faced the possibility of delisting of our stock from the NASDAQ Global Market. We cannot be certain that we will be able to comply with SEC reporting requirements and NASDAQ listing requirements in the future. If we are delisted from the NASDAQ as a result of noncompliance with NASDAQ listing requirements, the price of our stock and the ability of our stockholders to trade in our stock would be adversely affected. In addition, we would be subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration of our stock under federal securities laws, and we would not be able to allow our employees to exercise their outstanding options, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, if we are delisted in the future from the NASDAQ Global Market, there may be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by customers, suppliers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our company. As a result of the delayed filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 as well as our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 for sale by us or resale by others through March 16, 2010, which is one year from the original due date of the last untimely filed report. We have used and may use Form S-1 to raise capital or complete acquisitions in the future, but doing so may increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. Our financial performance may be difficult to forecast as a result of our historical focus on large customers and the long sales cycle associated with our solutions. The majority of our revenue is currently derived from organizations with complex talent management requirements. Accordingly, in a particular quarter the majority of our bookings from new customers on an aggregate contract value basis are from large sales made to a relatively small number of customers. As such, our failure to close a sale in a particular quarter will impede desired revenue growth unless and until the sale closes. In addition, sales cycles for our Taleo Enterprise clients are generally between three months and one year, and in some cases can be longer. As a result, substantial time and cost may be spent attempting to secure a sale that may not be successful. The period between our first sales call on a prospective customer and a contract signing is relatively long due to several factors such as: • the complex nature of our solutions; • the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our solutions; • the relatively long duration of our contracts; • the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchases; • the timing of our customers’ budget cycles; • the competitive evaluation of our solutions; • fluctuations in the staffing management requirements of our prospective customers; • announcements or planned introductions of new products by us or our competitors; and • the lengthy purchasing approval processes of our prospective customers. If our sales cycles unexpectedly lengthen, our ability to forecast accurately the timing of sales in any given period will be adversely affected and we may not meet our forecasts for that period. 21 Table of Contents A portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. Sales to U.S. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a small portion of our revenue, and we may in the future increase sales to government entities. Sales into government entities are subject to a number of risks. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully sell our products and services to such governmental entity. Government entities may require contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements. In addition, government demand and payment for our products may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products. Most of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through third-party prime contractors that resell our solutions. Government entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. Governments routinely audit and investigate government contractors, and we may be subject to such audits and investigations. For example, we have been subject to government contract audits in the past and have received a subpoena from the Department of Homeland Security’s inspector general’s office relating to our commercial pricing for the Transportation Security Administration, a government entity that accessed our services through a prime contractor. As a result of an audit or investigation, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the government entity. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. If we fail to develop or acquire new products or enhance our existing products to meet the needs of our existing and future customers, our sales will decline. To keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, and achieve market acceptance, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and services. For instance, the Taleo Talent Grid, a foundation for sharing industry knowledge, technology and candidates, became generally available to our customers in September 2009, and Taleo 10, the newest version of our talent management solutions, became generally available to our customers in February 2010. Additionally, on January 1, 2010, we completed our acquisition of WWC, which allows us to offer a compensation management solution directly to our customers. Any new products we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue and may generate losses. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products that appeal to our target customer base or enhance our existing products or if we fail to price our products to meet market demand or if the products we develop or acquire do not meet performance expectations or have a higher than expected cost structure to host and maintain, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our efforts to expand our solutions beyond our current offerings or beyond the talent management market may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to an unprofitable business, which may harm our existing business. We expect to incur additional expense to develop software products and to integrate acquired software products into existing platforms to maintain our competitive position. For example, our acquisition of WWC will require significant effort to integrate existing WWC products into our platform and hosting infrastructure over time. In addition, we have invested in software development locations other than the locations where we traditionally developed our software. For example, we have invested in development locations in Eastern Europe and Ukraine and we may invest in other locations outside of North America in the future. In addition, we plan to continue to invest in Jacksonville, Florida, as a software development location. We may engage independent contractors for all or portions of this work. These efforts may not result in commercially viable solutions, may be more expensive or less productive than we anticipate, or may be difficult to manage and result in distraction to our management team. If we do not manage these remote development centers effectively or receive significant revenue from our product development investments, our business will be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Additionally, we intend to maintain a single version of each release of our software applications that is configurable to meet the needs of our customers. Customers may require customized solutions or features and functions that we do not yet offer and do not intend to offer in future releases, which may disrupt our ability to maintain a single version of our software releases or cause our customers to choose a competing solution. Vurv has historically allowed customer specific customizations of its software and we may find it difficult to support or migrate such customizations. Acquisitions and investments present many risks, and we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions, which would harm our business, operating results and overall financial condition. We have made, continue to make and are actively evaluating acquisitions or investments in companies, products, services, and technologies to expand our product offerings, customer base and business. For example, in 2008, we completed our acquisition of Vurv, which is our largest acquisition to date. In January 2010, we completed our acquisition of WWC. We have limited experience in executing acquisitions and investments. Acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including the following: • being unable to achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions; • discovering that we may have difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations, and personnel of the acquired business, and may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations; • difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies or products into our existing code base; • problems arising from differences in applicable accounting standards of the acquired business (for instance, non-U.S. businesses may not prepare their financial statements in accordance with GAAP); • problems arising from differences in the revenue, licensing or support model of the acquired business; • customer confusion regarding the positioning of acquired technologies or products; • difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; • difficulty retaining the acquired business’ customers; and • problems or liabilities associated with product quality, data privacy, data security, technology and legal contingencies. The consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. If we should proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any such acquisition. To the extent that we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in our incurring debt, material one-time write-offs, or purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring charges. They may also result in recording goodwill and other intangible assets in our financial statements which may be subject to future impairment charges or ongoing amortization costs, thereby reducing future earnings. In addition, from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as incurring expenses that may impact operating results. We may lose sales opportunities if we do not successfully develop and maintain strategic relationships to sell and deliver our solutions. We have partnered with a number of business process outsourcing, or BPO, and human resource outsourcing, or HRO, providers that resell our solutions as a component of their outsourced human resource services and we intend to partner with more BPOs and HROs in the future. If customers or potential customers 23 Table of Contents begin to outsource their talent management functions to BPOs or HROs that do not resell our solutions, or to BPOs or HROs that choose to develop their own solutions, our business will be harmed. In addition, we have relationships with third-party consulting firms, system integrators and software and service vendors who provide us with customer referrals, integrate their complementary products with ours, cooperate with us in marketing our products and provide our customers with system implementation or other consulting services. If we fail to establish new strategic relationships or expand our existing relationships, or should any of these partners fail to work effectively with us or go out of business, our ability to sell our products into new markets and to increase our penetration into existing markets may be impaired. If we are required to reduce our prices to compete successfully, our margins and operating results could be adversely affected. The intensely competitive market in which we do business may require us to reduce our prices. If our competitors offer discounts on certain products or services, we may be required to lower prices or offer our solutions on less favorable terms to compete successfully. Some of our larger competitors have significantly greater resources than we have and are better able to absorb short-term losses. Any such changes would likely reduce our margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our competitors may provide bundled product offerings that compete with ours for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy. These practices could, over time, limit the prices that we can charge for our products or services. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the quantity of applications sold, our margins and operating results would be adversely affected. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to customer data or personal information, customers may curtail or stop their use of our solutions, which would harm our reputation, operating results, and financial condition. Our solutions involve the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information and users’ personal information, including the personal information of our customers’ job candidates. As part of our solution, we may also offer third-party proprietary solutions which require us to transmit our customers’ proprietary data and the personal information of job candidates to such third parties. Security breaches could expose us to loss of this information, and we could be required to undertake an investigation, notify affected data subjects and appropriate legal authorities and regulatory agencies, and conduct remediation efforts, which could include modifications to our current security practices and ongoing monitoring for users whose data might have been subject to unauthorized access. Accordingly, security breaches may result in investigation, remediation and notification expenses, litigation, liability, and financial penalties. For example, in May 2009, a legacy Vurv customer using a customized version of the Vurv software informed us that email addresses contained in its candidate database, which we host, were used by an unauthorized third party to solicit additional personal information from job candidates. While it has not been determined that this incident resulted from a breach of our security measures, our customer has been sued with respect to this incident and we cannot be certain that a claim will not be asserted against us or that we will not incur liability or additional expense with respect to this matter. While we have administrative, technical, and physical security measures in place, and we contractually require third parties to whom we transfer data to have appropriate security measures, if any of these security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, criminal acts by an employee, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to customer data or personal information, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we and our partners to whom we transfer data may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We do not encrypt all data we store for our customers while such data is at rest in the database. Applicable law may require that a security breach involving certain types of unencrypted data be disclosed to each data subject or publicly disclosed. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be 24 Table of Contents harmed and we could lose sales and customers. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to failures in our security measures. Defects or errors in our products could affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products, which would harm our business. Our products may contain defects or errors, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any product defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. While we test our products for defects or errors prior to product release, defects or errors have been identified from time to time by our customers and may continue to be identified in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions in the availability or functionality of our solutions could result in: • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products; • loss of customers; • product liability and breach of warranty suits against us; • diversion of development and support resources; • injury to our reputation; and • increased maintenance and warranty costs. While our software subscription agreements typically contain limitations and disclaimers that should limit our liability for damages related to defects in our software, such limitations and disclaimers may not be upheld by a court or other tribunal or otherwise protect us from such claims. If we fail to manage our hosting infrastructure capacity satisfactorily, our existing customers may experience service outages and data loss, and our new customers may experience delays in the deployment of our solution. We have experienced significant growth in the number of users, transactions, and data that our hosting infrastructure supports. Failure to address the increasing demands on our hosting infrastructure satisfactorily may result in service outages, delays or disruptions. For example, we have experienced downtimes within our hosting infrastructure, some of which have been significant, which have prevented customers from using our solutions from time to time. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our hosting infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our customers. We also maintain excess capacity to facilitate the rapid provisioning of new customer deployments and expansion of existing customer deployments. The development of new hosting infrastructure to keep pace with expanding storage and processing requirements could be a significant cost to us that we are not able to predict accurately and for which we are not able to budget significantly in advance. Such outlays could raise our cost of goods sold and be detrimental to our financial results. At the same time, the development of new hosting infrastructure requires significant lead time. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements, our existing customers may experience service outages that may subject us to financial penalties, financial liabilities and the loss of customers. If our hosting infrastructure capacity fails to keep pace with sales, customers may experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenue growth. In addition, we may in the future consolidate certain of our data centers with our other existing data centers, or move certain data center operations to new facilities. For example, we plan to consolidate our U.S. production data center operations for our Taleo Enterprise solution into a new Chicago, Illinois facility in 2010. If we consolidate these data center operations, we will need to relocate existing hardware, purchase new hardware, and migrate all of our Taleo Enterprise customers’ proprietary information and their users’ personal information. Although we take reasonable precautions designed to mitigate the risks of such a move, such transitions create 25 Table of Contents increased risk of service disruptions, outages or the theft or loss of important customer and user data that could harm our reputation, subject us to financial liability, and adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Any significant disruption in our computing and communications infrastructure could harm our reputation, result in a loss of customers and adversely affect our business. Our computing and communications infrastructure is a critical part of our business operations. Our customers access our solutions through a standard web browser. Our customers depend on us for fast and reliable access to our applications. Much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of members of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our applications. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, serious disruptions in our computing and communications infrastructure. Factors that may cause such disruptions include: • human error; • physical or electronic security breaches; • telecommunications outages from third-party providers; • computer viruses; • acts of terrorism or sabotage; • fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters; and • power loss. Although we back up data stored on our systems at least daily to disks in our data centers, and weekly to automated tape which is stored offsite, our infrastructure does not currently include real-time, or near real-time, mirroring of data storage and production capacity in more than one geographically distinct location. Thus, in the event of a physical disaster, or certain other failures of our computing infrastructure, customer data from recent transactions may be permanently lost. We currently deliver our solutions from ten data centers that host the applications for all of our customers. The Taleo Enterprise platform is hosted from three facilities: a U.S. facility leased from Equinix, Inc. in San Jose, California, a U.S. facility leased from Internap Network Services Corporation in New York City, New York and a European data center facility also leased from Equinix in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Internet bandwidth and access is provided by Internap in the two U.S. facilities and by Equinix in the Netherlands. The Taleo Business Edition is hosted from four facilities in the U.S.: facilities located in San Jose, California and Ashburn, Virginia, both operated via a managed services arrangement, and facilities located in Jacksonville, Florida and San Francisco, California to host the legacy Vurv product for small and medium-sized organizations. Opsource, Inc. provides hardware, internet bandwidth, and access in the San Jose, California and Ashburn Virginia hosting facilities through the managed services arrangement. Internet bandwidth and access for the legacy Vurv small and medium-sized organization recruiting product is provided by Peak 10 in the Jacksonville, Florida facility and by Serverpath in the San Francisco, California facility. The Vurv legacy enterprise recruiting product is hosted through four facilities located in Jacksonville, Florida, San Jose, California, Atlanta, Georgia and Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Internet bandwidth and access for the Vurv legacy enterprise recruiting product is provided by Peak 10 in the Florida and Georgia facilities, by Internap in San Jose and by Equinix in Amsterdam. The Taleo Compensation solution is currently hosted from two facilities leased from Internap in San Jose, California, and Los Angeles, California. Internap also provides the Internet bandwidth and access services for both of these locations. 26 Table of Contents We do not control the operation of these facilities and must rely on these vendors to provide the physical security, facilities management and communications infrastructure services to ensure the reliable and consistent delivery of our solutions to our customers. In the case of Opsource and Vurv locations that are managed service locations, we also rely upon the third-party vendor for hardware associated with our hosting infrastructure. Although we believe we would be able to enter into a similar relationship with another third party should one of these relationships fail or terminate for any reason, we believe our reliance on any third-party vendor exposes us to risks outside of our control. If these third-party vendors encounter financial difficulty such as bankruptcy or other events beyond our control that cause them to fail to secure adequately and maintain their hosting facilities or provide the required data communications capacity, our customers may experience interruptions in our service or the loss or theft of important customer data. We plan to consolidate our U.S. production data center operations for our Taleo Enterprise Solution into a new single facility in Chicago, Illinois in 2010. We may elect to open computing and communications hardware operations at additional third-party facilities located in the United States, Europe or other regions. We are not experienced at operating such facilities in jurisdictions outside the United States and doing so may pose additional risk to us. We have experienced system failures in the past. If our customers experience service interruptions or the loss or theft of their data caused by us, we may be required to issue credits pursuant to the terms of our contracts and may also be subject to financial liability or customer losses. Such credits could reduce our revenues below the levels that we have indicated we expect to achieve and adversely affect our margins and operating results. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. We must hire and retain key employees and recruit qualified personnel or our future success and business could be harmed. Our success depends on the continued employment of our senior management and other key employees, such as our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer. If we lose the services of one or more of our senior management or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise to compete with us, our business could be harmed. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. Additionally, our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. It may be particularly challenging to retain employees as we integrate newly acquired entities, like Vurv, due to uncertainty among employees regarding their career options and cultural differences between us and the newly acquired entities. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and expect to expand our international operations. However, we do not have substantial experience in international markets, and may not achieve the expected results. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, application revenue generated outside of the United States was 19% of total revenue, based on the location of the legal entity of the customer with which we contracted, of which 4% was revenue generated in Canada. Our primary research and development operation is in Quebec, Canada, but we conduct research and development in other international locations as well. We currently have international offices outside of North America in Australia, France, the Netherlands, Singapore and the United Kingdom, which focus primarily on selling and implementing our solutions in those regions. In the future, we may expand to other international locations. Our current international operations and future initiatives will involve a variety of risks, including: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions; • differing regulations in Quebec, Canada with regard to maintaining operations, products and public information in both French and English; 27 Table of Contents • differing labor regulations, especially in the European Union and Quebec, Canada where labor laws are generally more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations in these locations; • more stringent regulations relating to data privacy and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in Europe and Canada; • reluctance to allow personally identifiable data related to non-U.S. citizens to be stored in databases within the United States, due to concerns over the United States government’s right to access personally identifiable data of non-U.S. citizens stored in databases within the United States or other concerns; • greater difficulty in supporting and localizing our products; • greater difficulty in localizing our marketing materials and legal agreements, including translations of these materials into local language; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees or independent contractors over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs; • limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection; and • restrictions on repatriation of earnings. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will suffer. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of foreign currencies could result in currency transaction losses, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. We currently have foreign sales denominated in foreign currencies, including the Australian dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, the euro, New Zealand dollar, Singapore dollar and Swiss franc and may in the future have sales denominated in the currencies of additional countries. In addition, we incur a substantial portion of our operating expenses in Canadian dollars and, to a much lesser extent, other foreign currencies. Any fluctuation in the exchange rate of these foreign currencies may negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results. For instance, in 2009, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates compared to the average rates in effect during 2008 was a $2.1 million increase in income before income taxes. In 2010, the volatility in exchange rates for foreign currencies has continued and may continue and, as a result, we may continue to see fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, which may impact our operating results. We have not previously engaged in foreign currency hedging. If we decide to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we may not be able to hedge effectively due to lack of experience, unreasonable costs or illiquid markets. If we fail to defend our proprietary rights aggressively, our competitive advantage could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenue, and incur costly litigation fees to protect our rights. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. We do not have any issued patents. We do not rely on patent protection. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our licensed products may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries in which we operate. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect 28 Table of Contents proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances. No assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from developing technologies independently that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. Initiating legal action has been and may continue to be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could seriously harm our business. Current and future litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are sometimes subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the course of business. For example, we are currently defendant in a suit alleging patent infringement and were recently defendant in a suit alleging securities fraud, both of which are described in more detail in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Litigation may result in substantial costs, including lengthened or discontinued sales cycles due to concerns of existing or prospective customers with respect to litigation, and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, overall financial condition, and operating results. In addition, legal claims that have not yet been asserted against us may be asserted in the future. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, for further information regarding pending and threatened litigation and potential claims. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are subject to a protracted infringement claim or a claim that results in a significant award for damages. Software product developers such as us may continue to receive infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our space grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. For example, Kenexa, a competitor, filed suit against us for patent infringement in August 2007 and other infringement claims have been threatened against us. We can give no assurance that such claims will not be filed in the future. Our competitors or other third parties may also challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property rights. A claim may also be made relating to technology that we acquire or license from third parties. If we were subject to a claim of infringement, regardless of the merit of the claim or our defenses, the claim could: • require costly litigation to resolve and the payment of substantial damages; • require significant management time; • cause us to enter into unfavorable royalty or license agreements; • require us to discontinue the sale of our products; • damage our relationship with existing or prospective customers and disrupt our sales cycles; • require us to indemnify our customers or third-party service providers; or • require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our products. We entered into standard indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of business and may be required to indemnify our customers for our own products and third-party products that are incorporated into our products and that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Although many of the third parties from which we purchase are obligated to indemnify us if their products infringe the rights of others, this indemnification may not be adequate. 29 Table of Contents Our insurance policies will not compensate us for any losses or liabilities resulting from patent infringement claims. We use open source software in our products, which could subject us to litigation or other actions. We use open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products. In addition, if we were to combine our proprietary software products with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software products. If we inappropriately use open source software, we may be required to re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of our products or take other remedial actions. We employ technology licensed from third parties for use in or with our solutions, and the loss or inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs, or reduced service levels, which would adversely affect our business. Our hosted solutions incorporate certain technology obtained under licenses from other companies, such as Oracle for database software. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology and development tools from third parties in the future. Although we believe that there are commercially reasonable software alternatives to the third-party software we currently license, this may not always be the case, or we may license third-party software that is more difficult or costly to replace than the third party software we currently license. In addition, integration of our products with new third-party software may require significant work and require substantial allocation of our time and resources. Also, to the extent that our products depend upon the successful operation of third-party products in conjunction with our products, any undetected errors in these third-party products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions and injure our reputation. Our use of additional or alternative third-party software would require us to enter into license agreements with third parties, which could result in higher costs. Difficulties that we may encounter in managing changes in the size of our business could affect our operating results adversely. In order to manage our business effectively, we must continually manage headcount in an efficient manner. In the past, we have undergone facilities consolidations and headcount reductions in certain locations and departments. As a result, we have incurred, and may incur, charges for employee severance. We may experience additional facilities consolidations and headcount reductions in the future. As many employees are located in jurisdictions outside of the United States, we are required to pay the severance amounts legally required in such jurisdictions, which may exceed those of the United States. Further, we believe reductions in our workforce and facility consolidation create anxiety and uncertainty, and may adversely affect employee morale. These measures could adversely affect our employees that we wish to retain and may also adversely affect our ability to hire new personnel. They may also negatively affect customers. Failure to manage our customer deployments effectively could increase our expenses and cause customer dissatisfaction. Enterprise deployments of our products require a substantial understanding of our customers’ businesses, and the resulting configuration of our solutions to their business processes and integration with their existing systems. We may encounter difficulties in managing the timeliness of these deployments and the allocation of personnel 30 Table of Contents and resources by us or our customers. In certain situations, we also work with third-party service providers in the implementation or software integration-related services of our solutions, and we may experience difficulties in managing such third parties. Failure to manage customer implementation or software integration-related services successfully by us or our third-party service providers could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing customers, face potential customer disputes or limit the rate at which new customers purchase our solutions. Our ability to conclude that a control deficiency is not a material weakness or that an accounting error does not require a restatement can be affected by a number of factors, including our level of pre-tax income. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to assess the impact of control deficiencies based upon both quantitative and qualitative factors, and depending upon that analysis we classify such identified deficiencies as either a control deficiency, significant deficiency or a material weakness. One element of our analysis of the significance of any control deficiency is its actual or potential financial impact. This assessment will vary depending on our level of pre-tax income or loss. For example, a smaller pre-tax income or loss will increase the likelihood of a quantitative assessment of a control deficiency as a significant deficiency or material weakness. Because our pre-tax income is relatively small, if management or our independent registered public accountants identify an error in our interim or annual financial statements, it is more likely that such an error may be determined to be a material weakness or may meet the quantitative threshold established under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99, “Materiality”, that could, depending upon the complete quantitative and qualitative analysis, result in our having to restate previously issued financial statements. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in generally accepted accounting principles or changes in our operating history that impact the application of generally accepted accounting principles. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, are subject to interpretation by the FASB, the SEC, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and various other organizations formed to promulgate and interpret accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our historical or future financial results. The application of GAAP to our operations may also require significant judgment and interpretation as to the appropriate treatment of a specific issue. These judgments and interpretations are complicated by the relative newness of the on-demand, vendor-hosted software business model, also called software-as-a-service, or SaaS, and the relative lack of interpretive guidance with respect to the application of GAAP to the SaaS model. For example, in connection with our 2009 review of our revenue recognition practices, we submitted a pre-clearance submission to the Office of the Chief Accountant of the SEC, or OCA, requesting its view of our historical application of accounting guidance related to the recognition of multiple element arrangements. Following consultation with the OCA, we changed our application of the guidance to recognize revenue from consulting services ratably over the term of the software subscription agreement when we sell software subscriptions and consulting services in a single arrangement, rather than as the consulting services are delivered, as we had done in the past. In October 2009, however, the FASB issued accounting guidance related to the recognition of multiple element arrangements, which will supersede the guidance in place during 2009. The new guidance, which we are adopting as of January 1, 2010, will generally require us to recognize the majority of consulting services revenue from multiple element arrangements as the consulting services are delivered for arrangements we enter into after January 1, 2010. We cannot ensure that our interpretations and judgments with respect to the application of GAAP will be correct in the future and any incorrect interpretations and judgments could adversely affect our business. 31 Table of Contents If benefits currently available under the tax laws of Canada, the province of Quebec and other jurisdictions are reduced or repealed, or if we have taken an incorrect position with respect to tax matters under discussion with the federal Canadian Revenue Agency or other domestic or international taxing authorities, our business could suffer. The majority of our research and development activities are conducted through our Canadian subsidiary, Taleo (Canada) Inc. We participate in a provincial government program in Quebec that provides investment credits based upon qualifying research and development expenditures. These expenditures primarily consist of the salaries for the persons conducting research and development activities. We have participated in the program since 1999, and expect that we will continue to receive these refundable investment tax credits through December 2010. In 2009, we recorded a $2.4 million reduction in our research and development expenses as a result of this program. We anticipate the continued reduction of our research and development expenses through application of these credits through 2010. If these investment credit benefits are reduced or eliminated, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition to the provincial research and development investment credit program described above, our Canadian subsidiary is participating in a scientific research and experimental development, or SRED, program administered by the Canadian federal government that provides income tax credits based upon qualifying research and development expenditures. For tax year 2009, we recorded an estimated SRED credit claim of approximately $1.0 million. Our Canadian subsidiary is eligible to remain in the SRED program for future tax years as long as its development projects continue to qualify. These Canadian federal SRED tax credits can only be applied to offset Canadian federal taxes payable and are reported as a credit to our tax provision to the extent they reduce taxes payable to zero with any residual benefits recorded as a net deferred tax asset. We believe that our Canadian subsidiary is in compliance with these government programs and that all amounts recorded will be fully realized. If these SRED investment credits are reduced or disallowed by the federal Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”), our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. In December 2008, we were notified by the CRA of their intention to audit tax years 2003 through 2007. To date, CRA has issued proposed assessment notices for tax years 2002 and 2003 seeking increases to taxable income of CAD $3.8 million and CAD $6.9 million, respectively. These adjustments relate, principally, to our treatment of Canadian Development Technology Incentives (“CDTI”) investment credits and income and expense allocations recorded between our parent company and our Canadian subsidiary. We disagree with the CRA’s basis for these adjustments and intend to appeal their decision through applicable administrative and judicial procedures. There could be significant unrecognized tax benefits over the next twelve months depending on the outcome of any audit. We have recorded income tax reserves believed to be sufficient to cover any potential tax assessments for the open tax years. In the event the CRA audit results in adjustments that exceed both our unrecognized tax benefits and available deferred tax assets, we may become a tax paying entity in 2010 or in a prior year and may be required to pay penalties and interest. Any such penalties and interest cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. We will seek U.S. tax treaty relief through the appropriate Competent Authority tribunals for all settlements entered into with the CRA. Although we believe we have reasonable basis for our tax positions, it is possible an adverse outcome could have a material effect upon our financial condition, operating results or cash flows in a particular quarter or annual period. In 2008 and 2009, the state of California suspended the usage of prior year tax loss carryforwards used to reduce taxable income in California. We cannot be certain in 2010 whether California or another state may impose a similar restriction which could negatively impact our operations resulting in additional tax expense. As we continue to expand domestically and internationally, we are increasingly subject to reviews by various U.S. and foreign taxing authorities which could negatively impact our financial results. While we have 32 Table of Contents reserved for these uncertainties and do not expect the outcomes of these reviews to be material to our operations, our current assessment as to the potential financial impact of these reviews could prove incorrect and we may incur additional income tax expense in the period the uncertainty is resolved. Evolving regulation of the Internet or changes in the infrastructure underlying the Internet may adversely affect our financial condition by increasing our expenditures and causing customer dissatisfaction. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies may become more likely. We are particularly sensitive to these risks because the Internet is a critical component of our business model. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for solutions accessed via the Internet and restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our customers via the Internet. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Legislation has been proposed that may impact the way that internet service providers treat Internet traffic. The outcome of such proposals is uncertain but certain outcomes may negatively impact our business or increase our operating costs. Any regulation imposing greater fees for internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of internet-based services, which could harm our business. The rapid and continual growth of traffic on the Internet has resulted at times in slow connection and download speeds among Internet users. Our business expansion may be harmed if the Internet infrastructure cannot handle our customers’ demands or if hosting capacity becomes insufficient. If our customers become frustrated with the speed at which they can utilize our software over the Internet, our customers may discontinue use of our products and choose not to renew their contract with us. Our stock price is likely to be volatile and could decline. The stock market in general and the market for technology-related stocks in particular have been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • overall performance of the equity markets; • developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • publication of unfavorable research reports about us or our industry or withdrawal of research; • coverage by securities analysts or lack of coverage by securities analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community; • general economic conditions and data and the impact of such conditions and data on the equity markets; • terrorist acts; and • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new technologies, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments. 33 Table of Contents We may need to raise additional capital, which may not be available, thereby adversely affecting our ability to operate our business. If we need to raise additional funds due to unforeseen circumstances, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, and any additional financings could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to meet our business objectives, our stock price may fall and you may lose some or all of your investment. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If no or few securities or industry analysts cover our company, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could increase the difficulty for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. For example, if a potential acquirer were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquirer would not be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors or act by written consent without a meeting. In addition, our board of directors has staggered terms, which means that replacing a majority of our directors would require at least two annual meetings. The acquirer would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to replace directors at any annual meeting, and will not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which will require the acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on the board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. Our board of directors also has the ability to issue preferred stock that could significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% or greater stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 