ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment. The pendency of our agreement to be acquired by Oracle could have an adverse effect on our business. On February 8, 2012, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with OC Acquisition LLC (“Parent”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Oracle Corporation (“Oracle”), Tiger Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (“Merger Sub”), and Oracle, pursuant to which, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions therein, Merger Sub will merge with and into Taleo. As a result of the merger, Merger Sub will cease to exist, and Taleo will survive as an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Oracle. Upon the consummation of the merger, subject to certain exceptions, each share of our common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the merger will be converted into the right to receive $46.00 in cash, without interest. The announcement and pendency of the acquisition by Oracle could cause disruption in the business, including experiencing (i) the potential loss or disruption of customer, vendor or other commercial relationships prior to the completion of the merger, including, but not limited to, as a result of the merger or their potential unwillingness to do business with Oracle, or (ii) a potential negative effect on our ability to retain management, technical, sales and other key personnel as a result of the announcement of the merger. Such disruptions may continue to occur through the closing of the merger. The Merger Agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course of business pending consummation of the merger, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business. In addition, the pendency of the acquisition by Oracle and the completion of the conditions to closing could divert the time and attention of our management. All of the matters described above, alone or in combination, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. The failure to complete the merger with Oracle could adversely affect our business. We cannot provide assurance that our pending acquisition by Oracle will be completed. If the pending merger is not completed, the share price of our common stock may drop to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. On February 8, 2012, the day before the announcement of the pending merger, our stock’s closing price was $38.94. On February 9, 2010, following the announcement of the pending merger, our stock’s closing price was $45.64. In addition, on February 14, 2012, a purported class action lawsuit on behalf of our stockholders was filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery, captioned Coyne v. Taleo Corporation, et al, Case No. 7245. On February 24, 2012, a second purported class action lawsuit was filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery, captioned Elliott v. Taleo Corporation, et al, Case No. 7279. The complaints name as primary defendants the Company and the members of our board of directors and generally allege that the defendants violated the fiduciary duties owed to stockholders by approving the Company’s agreement to be acquired by Oracle. The complaints allege that the defendants engaged in an unfair process, agreed to unfair deal terms, and agreed to a price that allegedly fails to maximize value for stockholders. The complaints also allege that Oracle (and its wholly-owned subsidiaries created to effect the merger) aided and abetted the board members’ alleged breach of fiduciary duty. The complaints seek, among other things, declaratory and injunctive relief, including an injunction halting the merger. Also, under certain circumstances specified in the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay Oracle a termination fee of approximately $66.0 million and reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses of up to $5.0 million. A failed transaction may also result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. Further, any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of our acquisition by Oracle and from intensifying competition from our competitors, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, partners, vendors and employees, could continue or accelerate in the event of a failed transaction. There can be no assurance that our business, these relationships or our financial condition will not be adversely affected, as compared to the condition prior to the announcement of the acquisition or merger, if the acquisition or merger is not consummated. 12 Table of Contents We have a history of losses, and we cannot be certain that we will sustain profitability. With the exception of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2009 and 2010, we have incurred annual net losses in every year since our inception. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $94.0 million, comprised of aggregate net losses of $80.2 million and $13.8 million of dividends and issuance costs for preferred stock. In the year ended December 31, 2011, we reported a net loss of $17.4 million. We cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. As we continue to incur costs associated with initiatives to grow our business, which may include, among other things, acquisitions, international expansion, significant hiring, and new product development, any failure to increase revenue or manage our cost structure could prevent us from achieving or sustaining profitability. For instance, in the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011, our results were negatively impacted by amortization expense for intangible assets associated with acquisitions. In the near term, we expect to continue to incur significant amortization expense for intangible assets associated with our past acquisitions. In addition, we may incur losses as a result of revenue shortfalls or increased expenses associated with our business. As a result, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Unfavorable economic conditions could limit our ability to grow our business or result in less favorable commercial terms in our customer agreements. Our operating results may vary based on the impact of changes in economic conditions globally and within the industries in which our customers operate. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for enterprise application software and services. Our revenue is derived from organizations whose businesses may fluctuate with global economic and business conditions. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in corporate information technology spending. Accordingly, any downturn in global economic conditions may weaken demand for our software and services generally, or an economic decline impacting a particular industry may negatively impact demand for our software and services in the affected industry. Many of the industries we serve, including financial services, manufacturing (including automobile manufacturing), technology and retail, have recently suffered a downturn in economic and business conditions and may continue to do so. A softening of demand for enterprise application software and services, and in particular enterprise talent management solutions, caused by a weakening global economy or economic downturn in a particular sector would adversely affect our business and likely cause a decline in our revenue. Unfavorable economic conditions may also cause increased delays in our sales cycles and increased pressure from prospective customers to offer higher discounts or less favorable payment, billing or other commercial terms than our historical practices, and may also cause increased pressure from existing customers to renew expiring software subscriptions agreements at lower rates, delay or cancel consulting or education services engagements, purchase fewer products upon renewal, or demand other less favorable commercial terms. In addition, certain of our customers may attempt to negotiate lower software subscription fees for existing arrangements because of downturns in their businesses. If we accept certain requests for higher discounts, lower fees or less favorable commercial terms, our business may be adversely affected and our revenues may decline. Additionally, certain of our customers have become or may become bankrupt or insolvent as a result of an economic downturn, and we may lose all future revenue from such customers and payment of receivables may be lower or delayed as a result of bankruptcy proceedings. Acquisitions and investments present many risks, and we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions, which would harm our business, operating results and overall financial condition. We have made, continue to make and routinely evaluate acquisitions or investments in companies, products, services, and technologies to expand our product offerings, customer base and business. For example, in January 2010 we completed our acquisition of WWC, in October 2010 we completed our acquisition of Learn.com, in April 2011 we completed our acquisition of Cytiva and in July 2011 we completed our acquisition of Jobpartners. We have limited experience in executing acquisitions and investments. Acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including the following: • being unable to achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions; • difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations, and personnel of the acquired business; • difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations; 13 Table of Contents • difficulties and additional expenses associated with integrating or incorporating the acquired technologies or products into our existing code base and hosting infrastructure; • difficulties and additional expenses associated with supporting the legacy products and hosting infrastructure of the acquired business; • problems arising from differences in applicable accounting standards or practices of the acquired business (for instance, non-U.S. businesses may not prepare their financial statements in accordance with GAAP) or difficultly identifying and correcting deficiencies in the internal control over financial reporting of the acquired business; • problems arising from differences in the revenue, licensing (for instance, an acquired business may offer perpetual licenses), support (for instance, an acquired business may offer customer specific customizations of product code to certain customers) or consulting model of the acquired business; • customer confusion regarding the positioning of acquired technologies or products; • difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; • difficulty retaining the acquired business’ customers; • difficulty in integrating the acquired technologies and other acquired intangible assets into an efficient integrated supply chain structure; • difficulty in integrating acquired legal entities into a cost effective legal entity holding structure, including potential incremental accounting, tax, regulatory and other compliance costs; • difficulty converting the customers of the acquired business onto Taleo’s technology platform and contract terms; and • problems or liabilities associated with product quality, data privacy, data security, regulatory compliance, technology and legal contingencies. The consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. If we should proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any such acquisition. To the extent that we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in our incurring debt, material one-time write-offs, or purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring charges. They may also result in recording goodwill and other intangible assets in our financial statements which may be subject to future impairment charges or ongoing amortization costs, thereby reducing future earnings. In addition, from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as incurring expenses that may impact operating results. Because we recognize software subscription revenue over the term of the agreements for our software subscriptions, a significant downturn in our business may not be reflected immediately in our operating results, which increases the difficulty of evaluating our future financial position. We generally recognize revenue from software subscription agreements ratably over the terms of these agreements, which are typically three or more years for our Taleo Enterprise customers and one year for our Taleo Business Edition customers. As a result, a substantial majority of our software subscription revenue in each quarter is generated from software subscription agreements entered into during prior periods. Consequently, a decline in new software subscription agreements in any one quarter may not affect our results of operations in that quarter, but could reduce our revenue in future quarters. Additionally, the timing of renewals or non-renewals of a software subscription agreement during any one quarter may affect our financial performance in that particular quarter or may not affect our financial performance until the next quarter. For example, because we recognize subscription and support revenue ratably, the non-renewal of a software subscription agreement late in a quarter will have very little impact on revenue for that quarter, but will reduce our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales and customer acceptance of our solutions may not be reflected in our short-term results of operations, which would make these reported results less indicative of our future financial results. By contrast, a non-renewal occurring early in a quarter may have a significant negative impact on revenue for that quarter and we may not be able to offset a decline in revenue due to such non-renewals with revenue from new software subscription agreements entered into in the same quarter. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our costs in response to reduced revenue. 14 Table of Contents Because of the way we are required to recognize our professional services revenue under applicable accounting guidance, professional services revenue reported for a particular period may not be indicative of trends in our consulting business, which increases the difficulty of evaluating our future financial position. During 2009 and prior years, when we sold software subscriptions and professional services in a single arrangement (sometimes referred to as a multi-element arrangement), we recognized revenue from professional services ratably over the term of the software subscription agreement, which is typically three or more years, rather than as the professional services were delivered, which is typically during the first six to twelve months of a software subscription agreement. Accordingly, a significant portion of the revenue for professional services performed in any quarterly reporting period prior to 2010 was deferred to future periods. However, under accounting guidance which we adopted on January 1, 2010, substantially all of our revenue from professional service arrangements entered into on or after January 1, 2010 is recognized as the consulting services are delivered. In addition, if we materially modify a multi-element arrangement entered into prior to 2010, the revenue associated with consulting services delivered in prior periods that would have been recognized ratably under our pre-2010 policy, will be recognized in the period of the material modification. The application of these revenue recognition methodologies will result in our professional services revenue for the foreseeable future including a mix of revenue from professional services delivered during the reporting period and professional services delivered in previous reporting periods, which may make our results more difficult to understand and less indicative of our current operational trends. Further, since we recognize expenses related to our consulting services in the period in which the expenses are incurred, the consulting margins we report in any quarterly reporting period may not be indicative of the actual gross margin on consulting services delivered during the reporting period. If our existing customers do not renew their software subscriptions and buy additional solutions from us, or if our customers renew at lower fee levels, our business will suffer. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from renewal of software subscriptions and, to a lesser extent, service fees from our existing customers. As a result, maintaining the renewal rate of our software subscriptions is critical to our future success. Factors that may affect the renewal rate for our solutions include: • the price, performance and functionality of our solutions; • the availability, price, performance and functionality of competing products and services; • the effectiveness of our maintenance and support services; • our ability to develop complementary products and services; • the stability, performance and security of our hosting infrastructure and hosting services; and • the business environment of our customers and, in particular, headcount reductions by our customers. Most of our Taleo Enterprise customers enter into software subscription agreements with duration of three years or more from the initial contract date. Most of our Taleo Business Edition customers enter into annual software subscription agreements. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our solutions after the expiration of the initial term of their agreements. In addition, our customers may negotiate terms less advantageous to us upon renewal, which may reduce our revenue from these customers. Factors that are not within our control may contribute to such fee reductions. For instance, many companies reduced their total employee populations during the recent economic downturn. As our software subscriptions are often based on the total number of employees for which our software applications may be used by a customer, a significant employee count reduction by a customer during the term of an agreement may result in a renewal that is based on a lower maximum employee limit for the use of our products and thus a lower renewal fee. Under certain circumstances, our customers may cancel their subscriptions for our solutions prior to the expiration of the term. Our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to sell new products and services to our existing customers. If our customers terminate their agreements, fail to renew their agreements, renew their agreements upon less favorable terms or at lower fee levels, or fail to buy new products and services from us, our revenue may decline or our future revenue may be constrained. If our efforts to attract new customers are not successful or we do not compete effectively with other companies offering talent management solutions, our revenue may not grow and could decline. In order to grow our business, we must continually add new customers. Our ability to attract new customers will depend in large part on the success of our sales and marketing efforts and our ability to compete with other talent management solution providers. Many of our prospective customers have traditionally used other products and services for their talent management requirements or have developed internal solutions to address certain talent management requirements. If our sales and marketing efforts are not successful, our prospective customers may not be familiar with us or our solutions or may not consider our solutions to be of sufficiently high value and quality and, as a result, we may not be considered in such prospective customers’ sale cycles. 15 Table of Contents Additionally, in the past we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense competition from a number of companies. Our solutions compete with enterprise resource planning software from vendors such as Oracle and SAP and also with products and services from vendors such as ADP, Cezanne, Cornerstone OnDemand, Halogen Software, Healthcare Source, HRSmart, iCIMs, Jobvite, Kenexa Corporation, Kronos, Lumesse, PeopleFluent, Saba Software, SilkRoad Technology, SuccessFactors, SumTotal Systems, and Workday. Our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet changing industry standards or the price or performance needs of customers. Increased competition may cause pricing pressure and loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, development, marketing, sales, service and other resources than we have. Some of these companies also have a larger installed base of customers, longer operating histories and greater brand recognition than we have. Certain of our competitors provide products that incorporate capabilities which are not available in our current suite of solutions, such as automated payroll and benefits, or services that we do not currently offer, such as recruitment process outsourcing services. Products with such additional functionalities may be appealing to some customers because they can reduce the number of different types of software or applications used to run their business and such additional services may be viewed by some customers as enhancing the effectiveness of a competitor’s solutions. In addition, our competitors’ products may be more effective than our products at performing particular talent management functions or may be more customized for particular customer needs. Further, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to changes in customer requirements. Our customers often require our products to be integrated with software provided by our existing or potential competitors. These competitors could alter their products in ways that inhibit integration with our products, or they could deny or delay access by us to advance software releases, which would restrict our ability to adapt our products to facilitate integration with these new releases and could result in lost sales opportunities. The consolidation or acquisition of our competitors or other similar strategic alliances or changes in product offerings could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenue. There has been vendor consolidation in the industry in which we operate and we believe such consolidation is likely to continue, which could weaken our competitive position. For example, in December 2011, SAP announced an agreement to acquire SuccessFactors. After the closing of this acquisition, SuccessFactors will benefit, when competing with us, from SAP’s greater financial, technical, development, marketing, sales, services, installed base of customers, and brand recognition. There may also be consolidation by one or more vendors with respect to the product sets currently offered by distinct talent management and human resource software vendors. Additional consolidation within our industry would continue to intensify the competitive landscape in ways that would adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future BPOs, HROs, systems integrators, third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our products and limiting the number of consultants available to implement our solutions. Disruptions in our business caused by these events could reduce our revenue. We have had to restate our historical financial statements and have identified internal control weaknesses. In October 2009, we announced that, after upgrading to a new version of the equity program administration software that we license from a third-party provider, we identified differences in the stock-based compensation expense of prior periods and, after reviewing such differences, identified an error in our accounting for stock-based compensation expense. As a result of identifying the error, in October 2009, we concluded that accounting adjustments were necessary to correct certain previously issued financial statements. Accordingly, we restated those financial statements and recorded total cumulative additional stock-based compensation expense of approximately $2.6 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and the quarters ended June 30, 2009 and March 31, 2009. Specifically, we recorded increases in stock-based compensation expense of approximately $1.3 million in fiscal 2007, $1.2 million in fiscal 2006 and $0.3 million in the quarter ended June 30, 2009, and recorded reductions in stock-based compensation expense of approximately $0.1 million in fiscal 2008 and $0.1 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2009. In connection with this restatement, we determined that there was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009. Specifically, our controls to calculate stock-based compensation expense related to the application of the forfeiture rate were not designed effectively, and a material weakness existed in the design of the controls over the calculation of stock-based compensation expense related to the application of the forfeiture rate as of those periods. In addition, in March 2009, we announced that we had completed a review of our revenue recognition practices and, as a result of this review, we restated certain financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. The restatement resulted in the deferral to future periods of $18.0 million of professional services revenue and approximately $0.2 million in subscription and support revenue previously recognized through June 30, 2008. Amounts in our previously issued 16 Table of Contents consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 through 2007, and the interim condensed consolidated financial statements for each of the periods ended March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008, have been corrected for the timing of revenue recognition for professional services revenue during these periods, as well as to correct an error relating to the timing of revenue recognition for set-up fees, an element of our subscription and support services revenue. In connection with such review we identified certain control deficiencies relating to the application of applicable accounting literature related to revenue recognition. These deficiencies constituted a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2008, which led to items requiring correction in our historical financial statements and our conclusion to restate such financial statements to correct those items. Specifically, the control deficiencies related to our failure to correctly interpret the multi-element accounting guidance in determining the proper accounting treatment when subscription and support and professional services are sold together. We cannot be certain that the measures we have taken since these restatements will ensure that restatements will not occur in the future. Execution of restatements like the ones described above could create a significant strain on our internal resources and cause delays in our filing of quarterly or annual financial results, increase our costs and cause management distraction. As part of our ongoing processes, we continue to focus on improvements in our internal control over financial reporting. We have discussed deficiencies in our financial reporting and our remediation of such deficiencies with the audit committee of our board of directors and will continue to do so as required. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to detect, prevent or remediate all deficiencies which may exist now or in the future, including deficiencies which may constitute a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Any such current or future deficiencies could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. Our financial performance may be difficult to forecast as a result of our historical focus on large customers and the long sales cycle associated with our solutions. The majority of our revenue is currently derived from organizations with complex talent management requirements. Accordingly, in a particular quarter the majority of our bookings from new customers on an aggregate contract value basis are from large sales made to a relatively small number of customers. As such, our failure to close a sale in a particular quarter will impede desired revenue growth unless and until the sale closes. In addition, sales cycles for our Taleo Enterprise clients are generally between three months and one year, and in some cases can be longer. As a result, substantial time and cost may be spent attempting to secure a sale that may not be successful. The period between our first sales call on a prospective customer and a contract signing is relatively long due to several factors such as: • the complex nature of our solutions; • the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our solutions; • the relatively long duration of our contracts; • the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchases; • the timing of our customers’ budget cycles; • the competitive evaluation of our solutions; • fluctuations in the staffing management requirements of our prospective customers; • announcements or planned introductions of new products by us or our competitors; and • the lengthy purchasing approval processes of our prospective customers. If our sales cycles unexpectedly lengthen, our ability to forecast accurately the timing of sales in any given period will be adversely affected and we may not meet our forecasts for that period. If we fail to develop or acquire new products or enhance our existing products to meet the needs of our existing and future customers, our sales will decline. To keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, and achieve customer acceptance, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and services. Any new products we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely manner, may not achieve the broad customer acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue, and may generate additional development or integration expenses and resulting losses. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products that appeal to our target customer base or enhance our existing products or if we fail to price our products to meet customer demand or if the products we develop or acquire do not meet performance expectations or have a higher than expected cost structure to host and maintain, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Additionally, our efforts to expand our solutions beyond our current offerings or beyond the talent management industry may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to an unprofitable business, which may harm our existing business. 17 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to customer data or personal information, customers may curtail or stop their use of our solutions, which would harm our reputation, operating results, and financial condition. Our solutions involve the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information and users’ personal information, including the personal information of our customers’ job candidates. As part of our solution, we may also offer third-party proprietary solutions which require us to transmit our customers’ proprietary data and the personal information of job candidates to such third parties. Security breaches could expose us to loss of this information, and we could be required to undertake an investigation, notify affected data subjects and appropriate legal authorities and regulatory agencies, and conduct remediation efforts, which could include modifications to our current security practices and ongoing monitoring for users whose data might have been subject to unauthorized access. Accordingly, security breaches may result in investigation, remediation and notification expenses, litigation, liability, and financial penalties. While we have administrative, technical, and physical security measures in place, and we contractually require third parties to whom we transfer data to have appropriate security measures, if any of these security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, criminal acts by an employee, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to customer data or personal information, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we and our partners to whom we transfer data may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Applicable law may require that a security breach involving certain types of data be disclosed to each data subject or publicly disclosed. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to failures in our security measures. Defects or errors in our products could affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products, which would harm our business. Our products may contain defects or errors, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any product defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. While we test our products for defects or errors prior to product release, defects or errors have been identified from time to time by our customers and may continue to be identified in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions in the availability or functionality of our solutions could result in: • lost or delayed customer acceptance and sales of our products; • loss of customers; • product liability and breach of warranty claims against us; • diversion of development and support resources; • injury to our reputation; • increased billing disputes and customer claims for fee credits; and • failure to meet our contractual service level commitments and associated contractual liabilities. While our software subscription agreements typically contain limitations and disclaimers that should limit our liability for damages related to defects in our software, such limitations and disclaimers may not be upheld by a court or other tribunal or otherwise protect us from such claims. If we fail to manage our datacenter operations satisfactorily, our existing customers may experience service outages and data loss, and our new customers may experience delays in the deployment of our solution. Our hosting infrastructure is a critical part of our business operations. Our customers access our solutions through a standard web browser via the internet and depend on us to enable fast and reliable access to our applications. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions within our hosting infrastructure, some of which have been significant, which have prevented customers from using our solutions from time to time. Factors that may cause such disruptions include: • software errors or defects; • equipment failures or defects; • human error; • physical or electronic security breaches; • telecommunications outages from third-party providers; 18 Table of Contents • computer viruses or other malicious code; • acts of terrorism or sabotage; • fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters; and • power loss. Although we back up customer data stored on our systems at least daily, the hosting infrastructure for all our product lines does not currently include real-time, or near real-time, mirroring of data storage and production capacity in more than one geographically distinct location. Thus, in the event of a physical disaster, or certain other failures of our computing infrastructure, customer data from recent transactions may be permanently lost. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of users, transactions, and data that our hosting infrastructure supports. Failure to address the increasing demands on our hosting infrastructure satisfactorily may result in service outages, delays or disruptions. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our hosting infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our customers. We also maintain excess capacity to facilitate the rapid provisioning of new customer deployments and expansion of existing customer deployments. The development of new hosting infrastructure to keep pace with expanding storage and processing requirements could be a significant cost to us that we are not able to predict accurately and for which we are not able to budget significantly in advance. Such outlays could raise our cost of goods sold and be detrimental to our financial results. At the same time, the development of new hosting infrastructure requires significant lead time. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements, our existing customers may experience service outages that may subject us to financial penalties, financial liabilities and the loss of customers. If our hosting infrastructure capacity fails to keep pace with sales, customers may experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenue growth. We currently deliver our Taleo Enterprise solutions from secure co-location datacenters operated by third parties in which we have purchased cage space, electrical power and cooling. Redundant Internet connectivity and bandwidth is provided by an alternate third party. We currently deliver our Taleo Business Edition and Taleo Talent Grid solutions via third party managed services arrangements. We do not control the operation of any of the datacenter facilities mentioned above and must rely on our vendors to provide the physical security, facilities management and communications infrastructure services to ensure the reliable and consistent delivery of our solutions to our customers. Although we believe we would be able to enter into a similar relationship with another third party should one of these relationships fail or terminate for any reason, we believe our reliance on any third-party vendor exposes us to risks outside of our control. If these third-party vendors encounter financial difficulty such as bankruptcy or other events beyond our control that cause them to fail to secure adequately and maintain their hosting facilities or provide the required data communications capacity, our customers may experience interruptions in our service or the loss or theft of important customer data. We may in the future consolidate certain of our datacenters with our other existing datacenters, or move certain datacenter operations to new facilities. For example, in 2010, we consolidated our U.S. production datacenter operations for our Taleo Enterprise solution into a new facility in the Chicago, Illinois area, and in 2011 we consolidated data centers for our Vurv and WWC solution customers into the same Chicago facility. When we consolidated these datacenter operations, we relocated existing hardware, purchased new hardware, and transferred all of our Taleo Enterprise customers’ proprietary information and their users’ personal information. Although we take reasonable precautions designed to mitigate the risks of such a move, such transitions create increased risk of service disruptions, outages and the theft or loss of important customer and user data that could harm our reputation, subject us to financial liability, and adversely affect our revenue and earnings. We may also elect to open computing and communications hardware operations at additional third-party facilities located in the United States, Europe or other regions. We are not experienced at operating such facilities in jurisdictions outside the United States and Europe and doing so may pose additional risk to us. If, as a result of our datacenter operations, our customers experience service interruptions or the loss or theft of their data caused by us, we may be required to issue credits pursuant to the terms of our contracts and may also be subject to financial liability or customer losses. Such credits could reduce our revenues below the levels that we have indicated we expect to achieve and adversely affect our margins and operating results. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. We must hire and retain key employees and recruit qualified personnel or our future success and business could be harmed. Our success depends on the continued employment of our senior management and other key employees, such as our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, and on our ability to attract and hire qualified senior management and executives. If we lose the services of one or more of our senior management or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise to compete with us, our business could be harmed. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. 19 Table of Contents Additionally, our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the software design and development, sales, and other functions of the business. In certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate the talent pool for such qualified personnel may be limited and we may find it difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. For instance, a significant portion of our software development function is conducted in Quebec City, a relatively limited labor market. Additionally, we may find it difficult or more costly to attract and retain qualified personnel in alternative jurisdictions in which the talent pool is less limited, or the personnel we hire in such jurisdictions may be less effective than we expect. It may also be particularly challenging to retain employees as we integrate newly acquired entities due to uncertainty among employees regarding their career options and cultural differences between us and the newly acquired entities. We may lose sales opportunities if we do not successfully develop and maintain strategic relationships to sell and deliver our solutions. We have partnered with a number of BPO and HRO providers that resell our solutions as a component of their outsourced human resource services and we intend to partner with more BPOs and HROs in the future. If customers or potential customers begin to outsource their talent management functions to BPOs or HROs that do not resell our solutions, or to BPOs or HROs that choose to develop their own solutions, our business will be harmed. In addition, we have relationships with third-party consulting firms, system integrators and software and service vendors who provide us with customer referrals, integrate their complementary products with ours, cooperate with us in marketing our products and provide our customers with system implementation or other consulting services. If we fail to establish new strategic relationships or expand our existing relationships, or should any of these partners fail to work effectively with us or go out of business, our ability to sell our products to new customers and to increase our penetration into the existing customer base may be impaired. A portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which is subject to a number of challenges and risks, including risks associated with failure to comply with government contracting regulations. Sales to U.S. and foreign federal, state, provincial and local governmental end-customers have accounted for a small portion of our revenue, and we may in the future increase sales to government entities. Sales into government entities are subject to a number of risks. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully sell our products and services to such governmental entity. Government entities may require contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements. In addition, government demand and payment for our products may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products. Some of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through third-party prime contractors that resell our solutions. Government entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. Our contracts with governmental customers may also be subject to various procurement regulations and other contract provisions, and governments routinely audit and investigate government contractors to confirm compliance with such regulations and provisions. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to such audits and investigations. We may also be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for treble damages. Qui tam actions are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information in the complaint are the complainant, the U.S. government and the court. Therefore, it is possible that qui tam actions have been filed against us and that we are not aware of such actions or have been ordered by the court not to discuss them until the seal is lifted. Thus, it is possible that we are subject to liability exposure for qui tam actions. As a result of an audit, investigation or qui tam action, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture or refund of profits or certain fees collected, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the government entity. For example, in August 2011, we settled claims asserted by the U.S. government in a qui tam action for approximately $6.5 million. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety are made against us, and any interruption or termination of our government contractor status could reduce our profits and revenues significantly. If we are required to reduce our prices to compete successfully, our margins and operating results could be adversely affected. The intensely competitive industry in which we do business may require us to reduce our prices. If our competitors offer discounts on certain products or services, we may be required to lower prices or offer our solutions on less favorable terms to compete successfully. Some of our larger competitors have significantly greater resources than we have and are better able to absorb short-term losses. Any such changes would likely reduce our margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our competitors may provide bundled product offerings that compete with ours for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy. These practices could, over time, limit the prices that we can charge for our products or services. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the quantity of applications sold, our margins and operating results would be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We currently derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and expect to expand our international operations. However, we do not have substantial experience in international markets, and may not achieve the expected results. During the year ended December 31, 2011, revenue generated outside of the United States was 19% of total revenue, based on the location of the legal entity of the customer with which we contracted. Of the revenue generated outside the United States, 10% was generated in Europe and 5% was generated in Canada. We conduct research and development in Quebec, Canada and Poland as well as other international locations. We currently have international offices outside of North America in Australia, France, the Netherlands, Germany, Spain and the United Kingdom, which focus primarily on selling and implementing our solutions in those regions. In the future, we may expand to other international locations. Our current international operations and future initiatives will involve a variety of risks, including: • potentially degrading general economic conditions and credit environments in Europe and elsewhere; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions; • differing regulations in Quebec, Canada with regard to maintaining operations, products and public information in both French and English; • differing labor and employment regulations, especially in the European Union and Quebec, Canada where labor laws are generally more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations in these locations and employee termination restrictions or related costs; • more stringent regulations relating to data privacy and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in Europe and Canada; • reluctance to allow personally identifiable data related to non-U.S. citizens to be stored in databases within the United States, due to concerns over the United States government’s right to access personally identifiable data of non-U.S. citizens stored in databases within the United States or other concerns; • greater difficulty in supporting and localizing our products; • greater difficulty in localizing our marketing materials and legal agreements, including translations of these materials into local language; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • competition from more internationally established companies; • challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees or independent contractors over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs; • differing pricing expectations; • limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection; and • restrictions on repatriation of earnings. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will suffer. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of foreign currencies could result in currency transaction losses, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. We currently have foreign sales denominated in foreign currencies, including the Australian dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and the Euro, and may in the future have sales denominated in the currencies of additional countries. We also incur a substantial portion of our operating expenses in British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and the Euro. Any fluctuation in the exchange rate of these foreign currencies may positively or negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results. For instance, in 2011, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates compared to the average rates in effect during 2010 was a $0.6 million loss. In 2012, the volatility in exchange rates for foreign currencies may continue and, as a result, we may continue to see fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, which may impact our operating results. We have not previously engaged in foreign currency hedging. If we decide to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we may not be able to hedge effectively due to lack of experience, unreasonable costs or illiquid markets. 21 Table of Contents If we fail to defend our proprietary rights aggressively, our competitive advantage could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenue, and incur costly litigation fees to protect our rights. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our licensed products may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries in which we operate. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances. No assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from developing technologies independently that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. Initiating legal action has been and may continue to be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could seriously harm our business. Current and future litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are sometimes subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the course of business. We are currently a defendant or potential defendant in a number of matters described in more detail in Note 9 “Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. Litigation may result in substantial costs, including lengthened or discontinued sales cycles due to concerns of existing or prospective customers with respect to litigation, and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, overall financial condition, and operating results. In addition, legal claims that have not yet been asserted against us may be asserted in the future. See Note 9 “Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, for further information regarding pending and threatened litigation and potential claims. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are subject to a protracted infringement claim or a claim that results in a significant award for damages. Software product developers such as us may continue to receive infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our space grows and as we become more well-known to non-practicing entities, sometimes referred to as patent trolls, that acquire and assert patents against other entities. For example, Kenexa, a competitor, filed suit against us for patent infringement in August 2007. That lawsuit was settled in June 2011 for a net payment of $3.0 million by Taleo to Kenexa. We are currently involved in patent infringement litigation and other claims, assertions or threats involving patent infringement as are specifically described in Note 9 “Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. We expect such claims will continue to be threatened, asserted or filed in the future. Our competitors or other third parties may also challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property rights. A claim may also be made relating to technology that we acquire or license from third parties. If we were subject to a claim of infringement, regardless of the merit of the claim or our defenses, the claim could: • require costly litigation to resolve and the payment of substantial damages; • require significant management time; • cause us to enter into unfavorable royalty or license agreements; • require us to discontinue the sale of our products; • damage our relationship with existing or prospective customers and disrupt our sales cycles; • require us to indemnify our customers or third-party service providers; or • require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our products. We entered into standard indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of business and may be required to indemnify our customers for our own products and third-party products that are incorporated into our products and that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Although many of the third parties from which we purchase are obligated to indemnify us if their products infringe the rights of others, this indemnification may not be adequate. Our insurance policies will not compensate us for any losses or liabilities resulting from patent infringement claims. 22 Table of Contents We use open source software in our products, which could subject us to litigation or other actions. We use open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products. In addition, if we were to combine our proprietary software products with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software products. If we inappropriately use open source software, we may be required to re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of our products or take other remedial actions. We employ technology licensed from third parties for use in or with our solutions, and the loss or inability to maintain these licenses, errors in the software we license, or failure to comply with these licenses could result in increased costs, or reduced service levels, which would adversely affect our business. Our hosted solutions incorporate certain technology obtained under licenses from other companies, such as Oracle for database software. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology and development tools from third parties in the future. Although we believe that there are commercially reasonable software alternatives to the third-party software we currently license, this may not always be the case, or we may license third-party software that is more difficult or costly to replace than the third party software we currently license. In addition, integration of our products with new third-party software may require significant work and require substantial allocation of our time and resources. Also, to the extent that our products depend upon the successful operation of third-party products in conjunction with our products, any undetected errors in these third-party products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions and injure our reputation. Our use of additional or alternative third-party software would require us to enter into license agreements with third parties, which could result in higher costs. We are also required to monitor our compliance with license agreements from third-party software providers and may be subject to compliance audits and additional license fees or other damages in the event we fail to comply with our license agreements. Difficulties that we may encounter in managing changes in the size of our business could affect our operating results adversely. In order to manage our business effectively, we must continually manage headcount in an efficient manner. In the past, we have undergone facilities consolidations and headcount reductions in certain locations and departments. As a result, we have incurred, and may incur, charges for employee severance. We may experience additional facilities consolidations and headcount reductions in the future. As many employees are located in jurisdictions outside of the United States, we are required to pay the severance amounts legally required in such jurisdictions, which may exceed those of the United States. Further, we believe reductions in our workforce and facility consolidation create anxiety and uncertainty, and may adversely affect employee morale. These measures could adversely affect our employees that we wish to retain and may also adversely affect our ability to hire new personnel. They may also negatively affect customers. Failure to manage our customer deployments effectively could increase our expenses and cause customer dissatisfaction. Enterprise deployments of our products require a substantial understanding of our customers’ businesses, and the resulting configuration of our solutions to their business processes and integration with their existing systems. We may encounter difficulties in managing the timeliness of these deployments and the allocation of personnel and resources by us or our customers. In certain situations, we also work with third-party service providers in the implementation or software integration-related services of our solutions, and we may experience difficulties in managing such third parties. Failure to manage customer implementation or software integration-related services successfully by us or our third-party service providers could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing customers, face potential customer disputes or limit the rate at which new customers purchase our solutions. Our ability to conclude that a control deficiency is not a material weakness or that an accounting error does not require a restatement can be affected by a number of factors, including our level of pre-tax income. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to assess the impact of control deficiencies based upon both quantitative and qualitative factors, and depending upon that analysis we classify such identified deficiencies as either a control deficiency, significant deficiency or a material weakness. One element of our analysis of the significance of any control deficiency is its actual or potential financial impact. This assessment will vary depending on our level of pre-tax income or loss. For example, a smaller pre-tax income or loss will increase the likelihood of a quantitative assessment of a control deficiency as a significant deficiency or material weakness. 23 Table of Contents Because our pre-tax income (loss) has historically been relatively small, if management or our independent registered public accounting firm identify an error in our interim or annual financial statements, it is more likely that such an error may be determined to be a material weakness or may meet the quantitative threshold established under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99, “Materiality”, that could, depending upon the complete quantitative and qualitative analysis, result in our having to restate previously issued financial statements. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in generally accepted accounting principles or changes in our operating history that impact the application of generally accepted accounting principles. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the SEC, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and various other organizations formed to promulgate and interpret accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our historical or future financial results. The application of GAAP to our operations may also require significant judgment and interpretation as to the appropriate treatment of a specific issue. These judgments and interpretations are complicated by the relative newness of the on-demand, vendor-hosted software business model, also called software-as-a-service, or SaaS, and the relative lack of interpretive guidance with respect to the application of GAAP to the SaaS model. We cannot ensure that our interpretations and judgments with respect to the application of GAAP will be correct in the future and any incorrect interpretations and judgments could adversely affect our business. Additionally, the FASB is currently working together with the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to converge certain accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies who are required to follow GAAP and those who are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). These efforts may result in different accounting principles under GAAP, which may have a material impact on the way in which we report financial results in areas including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, lease accounting, and financial statement presentation. We expect the SEC to make a determination in the near future regarding the incorporation of IFRS into the financial reporting system for U.S. companies. A change in accounting principles from GAAP to IFRS may have a material impact on our financial statements and may retroactively, adversely affect previously reported transactions. If benefits currently available under the tax laws of Canada, the province of Quebec and other jurisdictions are reduced or repealed, or if we have taken an incorrect position with respect to tax matters under discussion with the Canadian Revenue Agency or other domestic or foreign taxing authorities, our business could suffer. A significant portion of our research and development activities are conducted through Taleo (Canada) Inc., our Canadian subsidiary. From 1999 through 2011 we recorded the benefit from qualified wage credits administered through provincial government programs in Quebec, Canada. The qualified wage credits were based upon salaries for persons performing functions on identified projects. As of the filing date of this Form 10-K, the Quebec Provincial taxing authority has not finalized its assessment relating to the 2009 year but has communicated with Taleo that it intends to disallow the 2009 qualified wage credit based on the alleged failure to file an election to claim the credit in a timely manner. We have recorded an allowance of $3.5 million for the qualified wage credits receivable related to 2009 in our annual results for the year ended December 31, 2011. The denial was based on facts which were unique to 2009 and which do not affect the 2010 and 2011 qualified wage credits. Currently, the qualified wage credit for 2010 is under review by the Provincial incentive authority (Investment Quebec) and our financial statements reflect the benefit of the 2010 qualified wage credit. In addition our financial statements reflect an estimate for the 2011 qualified wage credit. We expect future year qualified wage credits to be reviewed by both Investment Quebec and Revenue Quebec. If these qualified wage credits are reduced or disallowed by these agencies, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition to the provincial qualified wage credits described above, our Canadian subsidiary is participating in a scientific research and experimental development, or SR&ED program, administered by the Canadian federal government that provides income tax credits based upon qualifying research and development expenditures. For tax years 2010 and 2011, we recorded SR&ED credits of approximately $0.9 million and $0.9 million, respectively. Our Canadian subsidiary is eligible to remain in the SR&ED program for future tax years as long as its development projects continue to qualify. These Canadian federal SR&ED tax credits can only be applied to offset Canadian federal taxes payable and are reported as a credit to our tax provision to the extent they reduce taxes payable to zero with any residual benefits recorded as a net deferred tax asset. In 2008, the Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”) issued assessment notices for tax years 2002 and 2003 seeking increases to taxable income of CAD $3.8 million and CAD $6.9 million, respectively. In December 2010 we received a proposal letter from CRA for 2004 detailing their initial proposal of increasing taxable income of CAD $7.2 million. In October 2011, we received a letter from CRA detailing their initial proposal of increasing 2005, 2006, and 2007 taxable income by CAD $5.7 million, CAD $3.8 million, and CAD $4.1 million, respectively. These adjustments relate principally to the income and expense allocations recorded between Taleo Corporation and our Canadian subsidiary of Quebec qualified wage credits. We disagree with the CRA’s basis for these adjustments and have appealed their decision through applicable administrative income tax treaty-based procedures. There could be significant changes to unrecognized tax benefits over the next twelve months depending on the outcome of any audit. We have recorded income tax reserves believed to be sufficient to cover any potential tax assessments for the open tax years. In the event the CRA audit results in adjustments that exceed our recorded tax reserves, we may have to accrue additional tax expense. To the extent the CRA audit results in adjustments that exceed both our tax reserves and our available deferred tax assets, we may be required to accrue and pay additional tax, penalties and interest, the amount of which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time as proceedings to determine the applicability of penalties and interest has not yet reached a conclusion. 24 Table of Contents We have sought U.S. tax treaty relief through the Competent Authority for the 2002 and 2003 CRA assessments and have indicated our intent to do so for 2004 through 2007 when CRA issues their final assessment. Although we believe we have reasonable bases for our tax positions, it is possible an adverse outcome could have a material effect upon our financial condition, operating results or cash flows in a particular quarter or annual period. As we continue to expand domestically and internationally, we are increasingly subject to reviews by various U.S. and foreign taxing authorities the outcomes of which could negatively impact our financial results. While we have reserved for these uncertainties and do not expect the outcomes of these reviews to be material to our operations, our current assessment as to the potential financial impact of these reviews could prove incorrect and we may incur additional income tax expense in the period the uncertainty is resolved. In addition, we are currently under review by the province of Quebec regarding the application of the contribution to the Fonds des services de santé (“FSS”), pursuant to the Act respecting the “Régie de l’assurance maladie du Québec” with respect to the stock option benefits derived by Taleo Canada employees participating in the Taleo Corporation stock option plan. We disagree with the conclusion that we are subject to the contribution requirements. We have received final assessments for tax years 2006 through 2008 that we continue to discuss and reconcile with representatives of the Quebec government. We have formally objected to these assessments and plan to object to any future final assessments. Our objections for 2006 through 2008 assessments have been formally rejected by Revenue Quebec. In December 2010 we filed a motion with the Canadian courts to request a hearing. Based upon a recent court ruling in Quebec that was adverse to a taxpayer in a fact scenario similar to ours, we have recorded a reserve for a potential contribution liability. We are monitoring this case as its appeal is scheduled to be heard within the next twelve months. We believe our reserve recorded is sufficient to cover any potential final assessments for the open years. In the event the audit results in adjustments that exceed our recorded reserve, we may have to accrue additional liabilities which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or changes in the application of tax laws. Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations, and the related rulings, interpretations, and developments can affect our overall effective income tax rate. For instance, we have historically applied existing and available net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our income tax liabilities in various tax jurisdictions. In 2008 and 2009, the State of California suspended the ability of corporations to deduct net operating loss carryforwards to reduce taxable income in these years. In October 2010, the State of California suspended the ability of corporations to deduct net operating loss carryforwards for California income tax purposes for 2010 and 2011. In addition, Illinois has suspended the use of net operating losses for tax years ending December 31, 2011 through December 31, 2014 and Michigan eliminated the use of net operating losses as it converted from the Michigan Business Tax system to the Michigan Corporate Income Tax system, effective January, 2012. Other states, such as Colorado, Indiana, New Jersey, Maine, and New Hampshire have also restricted the use of net operating losses. If additional states suspend or restrict the use of net operating losses, our tax expense may increase. Furthermore, as we expand our international operations, complete acquisitions, develop new products and new distribution models, implement changes to our operating structure or undertake intercompany transactions, changes in tax laws may result in an increase to our tax expense. An adverse determination with respect to our application of tax laws may negatively impact our tax rates and financial results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and, in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimation process and interpretations of applicable laws are inherently uncertain, and our estimates are not binding on tax authorities. The tax laws’ treatment of software and internet-based transactions is particularly uncertain and in some cases currently applicable tax laws are ill-suited to address these kinds of transactions. For instance, the application of U.S. state and local sales/use tax laws to our business model is not uniform across all state taxing jurisdictions with some jurisdictions addressing the taxability of our revenue streams through statutes, regulations and public rulings, other jurisdictions taking positions through unpublished private rulings, while still others are silent. We believe we have appropriately reserved for any potential uncollected sales/use taxes; however, our interpretations are not binding on tax authorities and the outcome of any future audit is uncertain and could have a material impact on our operations. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions where the ultimate tax determination on transfer pricing and withholding tax issues is uncertain. Although we believe we are in compliance with transfer pricing laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we conduct business, there is no assurance that the final determination of any tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Non-compliance with administrative procedures for withholding taxes could result in a temporary adverse impact to our cash flows. For example, we 25 Table of Contents have been notified by the German tax authority of the need to follow certain administrative procedures that will require us to advance approximately $0.9 million in withholding taxes. We expect to recover the withholding taxes after complying with the administrative procedures. Until those are complete as determined by the German tax authority, we will have an adverse impact to cash flows from operating activities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. Evolving regulation of the Internet or changes in the infrastructure underlying the Internet may adversely affect our financial condition by increasing our expenditures and causing customer dissatisfaction. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies may become more likely. We are particularly sensitive to these risks because the Internet is a critical component of our business model. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for solutions accessed via the Internet and restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our customers via the Internet. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Legislation has been proposed, from time to time, that may impact the way that internet service providers treat Internet traffic. The outcome of such proposals is uncertain but certain outcomes may negatively impact our business or increase our operating costs. Any regulation imposing greater fees for internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of internet-based services, which could harm our business. The rapid and continual growth of traffic on the Internet has resulted at times in slow connection and download speeds among Internet users. Our business expansion may be harmed if the Internet infrastructure cannot handle our customers’ demands or if hosting capacity becomes insufficient. If our customers become frustrated with the speed at which they can utilize our software over the Internet, our customers may discontinue use of our products and choose not to renew their contract with us. Our stock price is likely to be volatile and could decline. The stock market in general and the market for technology-related stocks in particular have been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • overall performance of the equity markets; • developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • publication of unfavorable research reports about us or our industry or withdrawal of research; • coverage by securities analysts or lack of coverage by securities analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community; • general economic conditions and data and the impact of such conditions and data on the equity markets; • terrorist acts; and • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new technologies, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments. We may need to raise additional capital, which may not be available, thereby adversely affecting our ability to operate our business. If we need to raise additional funds due to unforeseen circumstances, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, and any additional financings could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to meet our business objectives, our stock price may fall and you may lose some or all of your investment. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If no or few securities or industry analysts cover our company, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. 26 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could increase the difficulty for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. For example, if a potential acquirer were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquirer would not be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors or act by written consent without a meeting. In addition, our board of directors has staggered terms, which means that replacing a majority of our directors would require at least two annual meetings. The acquirer would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to replace directors at any annual meeting, and will not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which will require the acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on the board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. Our board of directors also has the ability to issue preferred stock that could significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% or greater stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 