ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We have a history of losses, and we cannot be certain that we will sustain profitability. Prior to the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred annual losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2007 we had incurred aggregate net losses of $37.6 million, which is our accumulated deficit of $51.4 million less $13.8 million of dividends and issuance costs on preferred stock. We may incur losses in the future as a result of expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business and requirements of being a public company. As we implement initiatives to grow our business, which include, among other things, acquisitions, international expansion and new product development, any failure to increase revenue or manage our cost structure could prevent us from completing these initiatives and sustaining profitability. As a result, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. We cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If our existing customers do not renew their software subscriptions and buy additional solutions from us, our business will suffer. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from renewal of software subscriptions and, to a lesser extent, service fees from our existing customers. As a result, maintaining the renewal rate of our software subscriptions is critical to our future success. Factors that may affect the renewal rate for our solutions include: • the price, performance and functionality of our solutions; • the availability, price, performance and functionality of competing products and services; • the effectiveness of our maintenance and support services; • our ability to develop complementary products and services; and • the stability, performance and security of our hosting infrastructure and hosting services. Most of our Taleo Enterprise Edition customers enter into software subscription agreements with a duration of three years or more from the initial contract date. Most of our Taleo Business Edition customers enter into annual software subscription agreements. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our solutions after the expiration of the initial term of their agreements. In addition, our customers may negotiate terms less advantageous to us upon renewal, which may reduce our revenue from these customers, or may request that we license our software to them on a perpetual basis, which may, after we have ratably recognized the revenue for the perpetual license over the relevant term in accordance with our revenue recognition policies, reduce recurring revenue from these customers. Under certain circumstances, our customers may cancel their subscriptions for our solutions prior to the expiration of the term. Our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to sell new products and services to our existing customers. If our customers terminate their agreements, fail to renew their agreements, renew their agreements upon less favorable terms, or fail to buy new products and services from us, our revenue may decline or our future revenue may be constrained. Because we recognize revenue from software subscriptions over the term of the agreement, a significant downturn in our business may not be reflected immediately in our operating results, which increases the difficulty of evaluating our future financial position. We generally recognize revenue from software subscription agreements ratably over the terms of these agreements, which are typically three or more years for our Taleo Enterprise Edition customers and one year for our Taleo Business Edition customers. As a result, a substantial majority of our software subscription revenue in each quarter is generated from software subscription agreements entered into during prior periods. Consequently, a decline in new software subscription agreements in any one quarter may not affect our results of operations in that 12 Table of Contents quarter but will reduce our revenue in future quarters. Additionally, the timing of renewals or non-renewals of a software subscription agreement during any one quarter may also affect our financial performance in that particular quarter. For example, because we recognize revenue ratably, the non-renewal of a software subscription agreement late in a quarter will have very little impact on revenue for that quarter, but will reduce our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales and market acceptance of our solutions may not be reflected in our short-term results of operations, which would make these reported results less indicative of our future financial results. By contrast, a non-renewal occurring early in a quarter may have a significant negative impact on revenue for that quarter and we may not be able to offset a decline in revenue due to such non-renewals with revenue from new software subscription agreements entered into in the same quarter. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our costs in response to reduced revenue. If our efforts to attract new customers are not successful, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. In order to grow our business, we must continually add new customers. Our ability to attract new customers will depend in large part on the success of our sales and marketing efforts. However, our prospective customers may not be familiar with our solutions, or may have traditionally used other products and services for their talent management requirements. In addition, our prospective customers may develop their own solutions to address their talent management requirements, purchase competitive product offerings, or engage third-party providers of outsourced talent management services that do not use our solution to provide their services. If our prospective customers do not perceive our products and services to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to attract new customers. Additionally, some new customers may request that we license our software to them on a perpetual basis, which may, after we have ratably recognized the revenue for the perpetual license over the relevant term in accordance with our revenue recognition policies, reduce recurring revenue from these customers. To date, we have completed a limited number of agreements with such terms. Unfavorable economic conditions and reductions in information technology spending could limit our ability to grow our business. Our operating results may vary based on the impact of changes in economic conditions globally and within the industries in which our customers operate. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for enterprise application software and services. Most of our revenue is currently derived from large organizations whose businesses may fluctuate with global economic and business conditions. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in corporate information technology spending by large organizations. Accordingly, the current downturn in global economic conditions may weaken demand for our software and services. In addition, an economic decline impacting a particular industry may negatively impact demand for our software and services in the affected industry. Some of the industries we serve, for example financial services and technology, have recently suffered a downturn in economic and business conditions and may continue to do so. A softening of demand for enterprise application software and services, and in particular enterprise talent management solutions, caused by a weakening global economy or economic downturn in a particular sector would adversely effect our business and likely cause a decline in our revenue. If we do not compete effectively with companies offering talent management solutions, our revenue may not grow and could decline. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense competition from a number of companies. Our Taleo Enterprise Edition solution competes with vendors of enterprise resource planning software such as Oracle Corporation and SAP AG, and also with vendors such as ADP, Authoria, Cezane, Cornerstone OnDemand, Halogen Software, HRSmart, Jobpartners, Kenexa, Kronos, Peopleclick, Pilat, Plateau, Salary.com, Stepstone, SuccessFactors, Technomedia, TEDS, Vurv, Workday, and Workstream, that offer products and services that compete with one or more modules in our Taleo Enterprise Edition suite of solutions. Our Taleo Business Edition solution competes primarily with Bullhorn, Hiredesk, iCIMs, Openhire, Monster.com, Virtual Edge from ADP and Vurv Express from Vurv. Our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet changing industry standards or the price or performance needs of customers. Increased competition may cause 13 Table of Contents pricing pressure and loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, development, marketing, sales, service and other resources than we have. Some of these companies also have a larger installed base of customers, longer operating histories and greater brand recognition than we have. Certain of our competitors provide products that may incorporate capabilities which are not available in our current suite of solutions, such as automated payroll and benefits, or services that we do not currently offer, such as recruitment process outsourcing services. Products with such additional functionalities may be appealing to some customers because they can reduce the number of different types of software or applications used to run their business and such additional services may be viewed by some customers as enhancing the effectiveness of a competitor’s solutions. In addition, our competitors’ products may be more effective than our products at performing particular talent management functions or may be more customized for particular customer needs in a given market. Further, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to changes in customer requirements. Our customers often require our products to be integrated with software provided by our existing or potential competitors. These competitors could alter their products in ways that inhibit integration with our products, or they could deny or delay access by us to advance software releases, which would restrict our ability to adapt our products to facilitate integration with these new releases and could result in lost sales opportunities. In addition, many organizations have developed or may develop internal solutions to address talent management requirements that may be competitive with our solutions. The mergers of or potential mergers of our competitors or other similar strategic alliances could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenue. The market in which we operate appears to be in the midst of a period of vendor consolidation. If one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. For example, Kronos acquired Unicru in 2006 and recently acquired Deploy Solutions. Kronos itself was acquired in 2007 by the private equity firm Hellman & Friedman. Additionally, Kenexa acquired Brassring in 2006 and ADP acquired VirtualEdge in 2006. Unicru, Brassring, VirtualEdge and Deploy Solutions have been direct competitors of ours in the past and it is unclear what impact these acquisitions will have on our market and our long term ability to compete against the combined companies. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future BPO partners, HRO partners, systems integrators, third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our products and limiting the number of consultants available to implement our solutions. Disruptions in our business caused by these events could reduce our revenue. In connection with the December 31, 2005 year-end audit we identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that led us to restate our consolidated financial statements and we cannot be certain restatements will not occur again. In connection with the December 31, 2005 year-end audit of our financial statements, management and our independent registered public accounting firm identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. These were matters that in our judgment could have adversely affected our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data consistent with the assertions of management in our financial statements and were deemed to be material weaknesses. In particular, we discovered errors in respect to depreciation of fixed assets, and accrual of dividends on preferred stock which required adjustment. As a result, we restated our consolidated financial statements. We also identified a failure to appropriately apply GAAP to certain aspects of our financial reporting resulting from the lack of a properly designed financial reporting processes and a lack of sufficient technical accounting expertise. Certain of such deficiencies were also deemed to be material weaknesses. We have remediated all known material weaknesses that were identified as part of the December 31, 2005 year end audit; however, we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken will ensure that those or similar deficiencies and a resulting restatement will not occur in the future. Execution of restatements like the one described above could 14 Table of Contents create a significant strain on our internal resources, cause delays in our filing of quarterly financial results, increase our costs and cause management distraction. Failure to implement and maintain the appropriate internal controls over financial reporting could negatively affect our ability to provide accurate and timely financial information. During 2006 we completed a review and redesign of our internal controls over financial reporting related to our closing procedures and processes, our calculations of our reported numbers, including depreciation expense and fixed assets, and the need to strengthen our technical accounting expertise. Despite these efforts, we identified a material weakness in connection with the evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls as of March 31, 2007 prior to the filing of our financial results for the period ended March 31, 2007, related to the identification of a material adjustment required, which affected cash, accounts receivable and cash flow from operations. We continue to focus on improvements in our controls over financial reporting and will continue to do so in 2008. We have discussed deficiencies in our financial reporting and remediation of such deficiencies with the audit committee of our board of directors and will continue to do so as required. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to remediate all deficiencies in the future. Any current or future deficiencies could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. Our financial performance may be difficult to forecast as a result of our historical focus on large customers and the long sales cycle associated with our solutions. The majority of our revenue is currently derived from organizations with complex talent management requirements. Accordingly, in a particular quarter the majority of our bookings from new customers on an aggregate contract value basis are from large sales made to a relatively small number of customers. As such, our failure to close a sale in a particular quarter will impede desired revenue growth unless and until the sale closes. In addition, sales cycles for our Taleo Enterprise Edition clients are generally between three months and one year, and in some cases can be longer. As a result, substantial time and cost may be spent attempting to secure a sale that may not be successful. The period between our first sales call on a prospective customer and a contract signing is relatively long due to several factors such as: • the complex nature of our solutions; • the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our solutions; • the relatively long duration of our contracts; • the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchase and budget cycles; • the competitive evaluation of our solutions; • fluctuations in the staffing management requirements of our prospective customers; • announcements or planned introductions of new products by us or our competitors; and • the lengthy purchasing approval processes of our prospective customers. If our sales cycles unexpectedly lengthen, our ability to forecast accurately the timing of sales in any given period will be adversely affected and we may not meet our forecasts for that period. If we fail to develop or acquire new products or enhance our existing products to meet the needs of our existing and future customers, our sales will decline. To keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, and achieve market acceptance, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and services. For instance, in February 2008 our performance management software product became generally available in the market. Any new products we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products that appeal to our target customer base or enhance our existing products or if we fail to price our products to meet market demand or if the products we develop or acquire do not meet performance expectations 15 Table of Contents or have a higher than expected cost structure to host and maintain, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our efforts to expand our solutions beyond our current offerings or beyond the talent management market may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to an unproven business, which may harm our existing business. We expect to incur additional expense to develop software products and to integrate acquired software products into existing platforms to maintain our competitive position. In addition, we intend to invest in software development locations other than the locations where we currently develop our software. Such locations may include locations in Eastern Europe, Russia, Asia and other locations outside of North America, and we may engage independent contractors for all or portions of this work. These efforts may not result in commercially viable solutions, may be more expensive or less productive than we anticipate, or may be difficult to manage and result in distraction to our management team. If we do not manage these remote development centers effectively or receive significant revenue from our product development investments, our business will be adversely affected. Additionally, we intend to maintain a single version of each release of our software applications that is configurable to meet the needs of our customers. Customers may require customized solutions or features and functions that we do not yet offer and do not intend to offer in future releases, which may disrupt out ability to maintain a single version of our software releases or cause our customers to choose a competing solution. Acquisitions and investments present many risks, and we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions, which would harm our business, operating results and overall financial condition. In addition, we have limited experience in acquiring and integrating other companies. We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions or investments in companies, products, services, and technologies to expand our product offerings, customer base and business. We have limited experience in executing acquisitions. Acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including the following: • being unable to achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions; • discovering that we may have difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations, and personnel of the acquired business, and may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations; • difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies or products into our existing code base; • problems arising from differences in the revenue, licensing or support model of the acquired business; • customer confusion regarding the positioning of acquired technologies or products; • difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; • difficulty retaining the acquired business’ customers; and • problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. The consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. If we should proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any such acquisition. To the extent that we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, material one-time write-offs, or purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring charges. They may also result in recording goodwill and other intangible assets in our financial statements which may be subject to future impairment charges or ongoing amortization costs, thereby reducing future earnings. In addition, from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as incurring expenses that may impact operating results. 16 Table of Contents We are discontinuing the time and expense processing services of our Taleo Contingent solution and intend to provide time and expense processing services to our current customers only through the expiration of their current agreements. We may have difficulty replacing the revenue from these customers. During 2007, we continued to generate revenue from our Taleo Contingent solution based on a fixed percentage of the dollar amount invoiced for temporary labor charges processed through our time and expense functionality. Effective March 2007, we ceased entering into agreements to provide time and expense processing services for temporary workers and, accordingly, our revenue from such processing services will end. We are servicing our current customers to which we provide such time and expense processing services through the expiration of their current agreements with us. Fees for time and expense processing through our Taleo Contingent product declined throughout 2007; however, on an annualized basis such fees were still significant in 2007. We expect revenue from time and expense processing for these customers to continue to decline and ultimately end in 2008. We may find it difficult to replace the revenue we currently receive from the processing of temporary worker time and expense transactions and our results may be negatively impacted. We may lose sales opportunities if we do not successfully develop and maintain strategic relationships to sell and deliver our solutions. We have partnered with a number of business process outsourcing, or BPO, and human resource outsourcing, or HRO, providers that resell our staffing solutions as a component of their outsourced human resource services and we intended to partner with more in the future. If customers or potential customers begin to outsource their talent management functions to BPOs or HROs that do not resell our solutions, or to BPOs or HROs that choose to develop their own solutions, our business will be harmed. In addition, we have relationships with third-party consulting firms, system integrators and software and service vendors who provide us with customer referrals, integrate their complementary products with ours, cooperate with us in marketing our products and provide our customers with system implementation or other consulting services. If we fail to establish new strategic relationships or expand our existing relationships, or should any of these partners fail to work effectively with us or go out of business, our ability to sell our products into new markets and to increase our penetration into existing markets may be impaired. If we are required to reduce our prices to compete successfully, our margins and operating results could be adversely affected. The intensely competitive market in which we do business may require us to reduce our prices. If our competitors offer discounts on certain products or services we may be required to lower prices or offer our solutions on less favorable terms to compete successfully. Some of our larger competitors have significantly greater resources than we have and are better able to absorb short-term losses. Any such changes would likely reduce our margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our competitors may provide bundled product offerings that compete with ours for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy. These practices could, over time, limit the prices that we can charge for our products or services. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the quantity of applications sold, our margins and operating results would be adversely affected. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to customer data, customers may curtail or stop their use of our solutions, which would harm our reputation, operating results, and financial condition. Our solutions involve the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. While we have security measures in place, if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, criminal acts by an employee, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to customer data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Unless our customers elect to purchase encryption, we do not encrypt data we store for our customers while such data is at rest in the database. Applicable law may require that a security breach involving 17 Table of Contents certain types of unencrypted data be publicly disclosed. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to failures in our security measures. Defects or errors in our products could affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products, which would harm our business. Our products may contain defects or errors, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any product defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. While we test our products for defects or errors prior to product release, defects or errors have been identified from time to time by our customers and may continue to be identified in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions in the availability or functionality of our solutions could result in: • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products; • loss of customers; • product liability suits against us; • diversion of development and support resources; • injury to our reputation; and • increased maintenance and warranty costs. While our software subscription agreements typically contain limitations and disclaimers that should limit our liability for damages related to defects in our software, such limitations and disclaimers may not be upheld by a court or other tribunal or otherwise protect us from such claims. We participate in a relatively new and evolving market for talent management software and services, which increases the difficulty of evaluating the effectiveness of our current business strategy and future prospects. Our current business model and prospects for increases in revenue should be considered in light of the risks and difficulties we encounter in the evolving talent management market. Because this market is relatively new in comparison to other enterprise software markets, we cannot predict with assurance the future growth rate and size of this market, which, in comparison with the market for all enterprise software applications, is relatively small. The rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we sell our products and services, as well as other factors that are beyond our control, reduce our ability to accurately evaluate our future prospects and to forecast with a high degree of certainty our projected quarterly or annual performance. If acceptance of the vendor hosted, or on-demand, delivery model does not continue to develop, or develops more slowly than we expect, our business may be harmed. The market for on-demand, vendor hosted enterprise software, also called software-as-a-service or SaaS, is still relatively new in comparison to the market for client-server based software. Our customers access and use our software as a web-based solution that is hosted by us. If the preferences of our customers change and our customers require that they host our software themselves, either upon the initiation of a new agreement or upon the renewal of an existing agreement, we would experience a decrease in revenue from hosting fees, and potentially higher costs and greater complexity in providing maintenance and support for our software. Additionally, a very limited number of our customers have the contractual right to elect to host our software themselves prior to the expiration of their subscription agreements with us. If the number of customers purchasing hosting services from us decreases, we might not be able to decrease our expenses related to hosting infrastructure in the short term. Potential customers may be reluctant or unwilling to allow a vendor to host software or internal data on their behalf for a number of reasons, including security and data privacy concerns. If such organizations do not recognize the benefits of the on-demand delivery model, then the market for our solutions may not develop further, or may develop more slowly than we expect. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our hosting infrastructure capacity satisfactorily, our existing customers may experience service outages and our new customers may experience delays in the deployment of our solution. We have experienced significant growth in the number of users, transactions, and data that our hosting infrastructure supports. Failure to address the increasing demands on our hosting infrastructure satisfactorily may result in service outages, delays or disruptions. For example, we have experienced downtimes within our hosting infrastructure, some of which have been significant, which have prevented customers from using our solutions from time to time. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our hosting infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our customers. We also maintain excess capacity to facilitate the rapid provisioning of new customer deployments and expansion of existing customer deployments. The development of new hosting infrastructure to keep pace with expanding storage and processing requirements could be a significant cost to us that we are not able to predict accurately and for which we are not able to budget significantly in advance. Such outlays could raise our cost of goods sold and be detrimental to our financial results. At the same time, the development of new hosting infrastructure requires significant lead time. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements, our existing customers may experience service outages that may subject us to financial penalties, financial liabilities and the loss of customers. If our hosting infrastructure capacity fails to keep pace with sales, customers may experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenue growth. In addition, we are in the process of bringing to market a performance management product for which we may not be able to accurately predict the number of users, transactions and infrastructure demands. Such a failure could result in system outages for our customers and higher than expected costs to support and maintain our performance management solution, which could negatively affect our reputation and our financial results. Any significant disruption in our computing and communications infrastructure could harm our reputation, result in a loss of customers and adversely affect our business. Our computing and communications infrastructure is a critical part of our business operations. Our customers access our solutions through a standard web browser. Our customers depend on us for fast and reliable access to our applications. Much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of members of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our applications. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, serious disruptions in our computing and communications infrastructure. Factors that may cause such disruptions include: • human error; • physical or electronic security breaches; • telecommunications outages from third-party providers; • computer viruses; • acts of terrorism or sabotage; • fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters; and • power loss. Although we back up data stored on our systems at least weekly, our infrastructure does not currently include real-time, or near real-time, mirroring of data storage and production capacity in more than one geographically distinct location. Thus, in the event of a physical disaster, or certain other failures of our computing infrastructure, customer data from recent transactions may be permanently lost. We have computing and communications hardware operations located at third-party facilities in the United States with Internap on the east coast and with Equinix on the west coast. We do not control the operation of these facilities and must rely on these vendors to provide the physical security, facilities management and communications infrastructure services to ensure the reliable and consistent delivery of our solutions to our customers. Although we believe we would be able to enter into a similar relationship with another third party should one of these relationships fail or terminate for any reason, we believe our reliance on any third-party vendor exposes us to risks outside of our control. If these third-party vendors encounter financial difficulty such as bankruptcy or other events 19 Table of Contents beyond our control that cause them to fail to secure adequately and maintain their hosting facilities or provide the required data communications capacity, our customers may experience interruptions in our service or the loss or theft of important customer data. In the future, we may elect to open computing and communications hardware operations at additional third-party facilities located in the United States, Europe or other regions. We are not experienced at operating such facilities in jurisdictions outside the United States and doing so may pose additional risk to us. We have experienced system failures in the past. If our customers experience service interruptions or the loss or theft of their data caused by us, we may be required to issue credits pursuant to the terms of our contracts and may also be subject to financial liability or customer losses. Such credits could reduce our revenues below the levels that we have indicated we expect to achieve and adversely affect our margins and operating results. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. We must hire and retain key employees and recruit qualified personnel or our future success and business could be harmed Our success depends on the continued employment of our senior management and other key employees, such as our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer. If we lose the services of one or more of our senior management or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise to compete with us, our business could be harmed. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. Additionally, our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. Further, because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to retain qualified engineers with the requisite education, background and industry experience. In particular, because our research and development facilities are primarily located in Quebec, Canada, we are substantially dependent on that relatively small labor market to attract and retain qualified engineers. We intend to invest in development centers in other locations but to date our development in operations in locations other than Quebec, Canada is not substantial. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations outside of North America and expect to expand our international operations. However, we do not have substantial experience in international markets, and may not achieve the expected results. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, revenue generated outside of North America was 9.8% of total revenue, based on the location of the legal entity of the customer with which we contracted. We currently have international offices outside of North America in Australia, France, the Netherlands, Singapore and the United Kingdom, which focus primarily on selling and implementing our solutions in those regions. However, we currently maintain data centers only in the United States. In 2008, we plan to continue our research and development operations in Quebec, Canada and expand our international operations, including opening product development locations and data centers outside of North America. We may also expand our international sales and services locations. These initiatives will involve a variety of risks, including: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions; • differing regulations in Quebec with regard to maintaining operations, products and public information in both French and English; • differing labor regulations, especially in the European Union and Quebec, where labor laws are generally more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations in these locations; • more stringent regulations relating to data privacy and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in Europe and Canada; 20 Table of Contents • reluctance to allow personally identifiable data related to non-U.S. citizens to be stored in databases within the United States, due to concerns over the United States government’s right to access personally identifiable data of non-U.S. citizens stored in databases within the United States or other concerns; • greater difficulty in supporting and localizing our products; • greater difficulty in localizing our marketing materials and legal agreements, including translations of these materials into local language; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees or independent contractors over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs; • limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection; and • restrictions on repatriation of earnings. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will suffer. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of foreign currencies could result in currency transaction losses, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. We currently have foreign sales denominated in foreign currencies, including the Australian dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, the euro, New Zealand dollar, Singapore dollar and Swiss franc and may in the future have sales denominated in the currencies of additional countries in which we establish or have established sales offices. In addition, we incur a substantial portion of our operating expenses in Canadian dollars and, to a much lesser extent, other foreign currencies. Any fluctuation in the exchange rate of these foreign currencies may negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results. For instance, in 2007, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates compared to the average rates in effect during 2006 was a $1.2 million decrease in earnings. In 2008, we expect that the volatility in exchange rates for foreign currencies may continue and we could incur additional losses from the impact of such fluctuations. We have not previously engaged in foreign currency hedging. If we decide to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we may not be able to hedge effectively due to lack of experience, unreasonable costs or illiquid markets. If we fail to defend our proprietary rights aggressively, our competitive advantage could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenue, and incur costly litigation fees to protect our rights. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. We do not have any issued or pending patents and do not rely on patent protection. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our licensed products may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries in which we operate. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances. No assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from developing technologies independently that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. Initiating legal action may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could seriously harm our business. 21 Table of Contents Current and future litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are sometimes subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, overall financial condition, and operating results. In addition, legal claims that have not yet been asserted against us may be asserted in the future, see Note 12 — Commitments and Contingencies in our notes to consolidated financial statements. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are subject to a protracted infringement claim or a claim that results in a significant award for damages. Software product developers such as us may continue to receive infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our space grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. For example, Kenexa, a competitor, filed suit against us for patent infringement in August 2007 and other infringement claims have been threatened against us. We can give no assurance that such claims will not be filed in the future. Our competitors or other third parties may also challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property rights. A claim may also be made relating to technology that we acquire or license from third parties. If we were subject to a claim of infringement, regardless of the merit of the claim or our defenses, the claim could: • require costly litigation to resolve and the payment of substantial damages; • require significant management time; • cause us to enter into unfavorable royalty or license agreements; • require us to discontinue the sale of our products; • require us to indemnify our customers or third-party service providers; or • require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our products. We entered into standard indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of business and may be required to indemnify our customers for our own products and third-party products that are incorporated into our products and that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Although many of the third parties from which we purchase are obligated to indemnify us if their products infringe the rights of others, this indemnification may not be adequate. In addition, from time to time there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. We use open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products. Our insurance policies will not compensate us for any losses or liabilities resulting from patent infringement claims. We employ technology licensed from third parties for use in or with our solutions, and the loss or inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs, or reduced service levels, which would adversely affect our business. We include in the distribution of our solutions certain technology obtained under licenses from other companies, such as Oracle for database software, and Business Objects for reporting software. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology and development tools from third parties in the future. Although we believe that there are commercially reasonable software alternatives to the third-party software we currently license, this may not always be the case, or we may license third-party software that is more difficult or costly to replace than the third party software we currently license. In addition, integration of our products with new third-party software may require significant work and require substantial allocation of our time and resources. Also, to the extent that our products depend upon the successful operation of third-party products in conjunction with our products, any undetected errors in these third-party products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our 22 Table of Contents products, delay new product introductions and injure our reputation. Our use of additional or alternative third-party software would require us to enter into license agreements with third parties, which could result in higher costs. Difficulties that we may encounter in managing changes in the size of our business could affect our operating results adversely. In order to manage our business effectively, we must continually manage headcount in an efficient manner. In the past we have undergone facilities consolidations and headcount reductions in certain locations and departments, and we may do so again. In such events we may incur charges for employee severance. As many employees are located in jurisdictions outside of the United States, we are required to pay the severance amounts legally required in such jurisdictions, which may exceed those of the United States. Further, we believe reductions in our workforce and facility consolidation create anxiety and uncertainty, and may adversely affect employee morale. These measures could adversely affect our employees that we wish to retain and may also adversely affect our ability to hire new personnel. They may also negatively affect customers. Failure to manage our customer deployments effectively could increase our expenses and cause customer dissatisfaction. Enterprise deployments of our products require a substantial understanding of our customers’ businesses, and the resulting configuration of our solutions to their business processes and integration with their existing systems. We may encounter difficulties in managing the timeliness of these deployments and the allocation of personnel and resources by us or our customers. In certain situations, we also work with third-party service providers in the implementation or software integration-related services of our solutions, and we may experience difficulties in managing such third parties. Failure to manage customer implementation or software integration-related services successfully by us or our third-party service providers could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing customers, face potential customer disputes or limit the rate at which new customers purchase our solutions. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in generally accepted accounting principles or changes in our operating history that impact the application of generally accepted accounting principles. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, the SEC and various other organizations formed to promulgate and interpret accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our projected financial results. Pursuant to the application of GAAP we recognize the majority of our application revenue monthly over the life of the application agreement. In certain instances, the straight-line revenue recognized on a monthly basis may exceed the amounts invoiced for the same period. If our history of collecting all fees reflected in our application agreements negatively changes, the application of GAAP may mandate that we not recognize revenue in excess of the fees invoiced over the corresponding period for new agreements. The application of GAAP also requires that we accomplish delivery of our solutions to our customers in order to recognize revenue associated with such solutions. In the context of our model, delivery generally requires the creation of an instance of the solution that may be accessed by the customer via the Internet. We may experience difficulty in making new products available to our customers in this manner. In the event we are not able to make our solutions available to our customer via the Internet in a timely manner, due to resource constraints, implementation difficulties or other reasons, our ability to recognize revenue from the sales of our solutions may be delayed and our financial results may be negatively impacted. If tax benefits currently available under the tax laws of Canada and the province of Quebec are reduced or repealed, or if we have taken an incorrect position with respect to tax matters under discussion with the Canadian Revenue Agency or other taxing authorities, our business could suffer. The majority of our research and development activities are conducted through our Canadian subsidiary, Taleo (Canada) Inc. We participate in a government program in Quebec that provides investment credits based upon qualifying research and development expenditures. These expenditures primarily consist of the salaries for the persons conducting research and development activities. We have participated in the program since 1999, and expect that we 23 Table of Contents will continue to receive these investment tax credits through December 2010. In 2007, we recorded a CAD $2.6 million reduction in our research and development expenses as a result of this program. We anticipate the continued reduction of our research and development expenses through application of these credits through 2010. If these investment tax benefits are reduced or eliminated, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition to the research and development investment credit program described above, our Canadian subsidiary has applied to participate in a scientific research and experimental development, or SRED, program administered by the Canadian federal government that provides income tax credits based upon qualifying research and development expenditures, including capital equipment purchases. In June 2007, we filed our initial SRED credit claims with respect to our 2005 and 2006 tax years and recorded combined credits of CAD $2.1 million and CAD $1.1 million in 2007. Our Canadian subsidiary is eligible to remain in the SRED program for future tax years as long as its development projects continue to qualify. These federal SRED tax credits can only be applied to offset federal taxes payable and are reported as a credit to tax provision to the extent they reduce taxes payable to zero with any residual benefits recorded as a net deferred tax asset. We believe that our Canadian subsidiary is in compliance with these government programs and that all amounts recorded will be fully realized. If these investment credits are reduced or disallowed by the Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”), our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. Our Canadian subsidiary is under examination by the Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”) with respect to tax years 2000 and 2001. We have settled certain issues raised in the audit and are appealing the CRA’s treatment of Quebec investment tax credits. Final resolution of the CRA’s examination will have bearing on the tax treatment applied in subsequent periods not currently under examination. We have recorded income tax reserves believed to be sufficient to cover the estimated tax assessments for the open tax periods and have estimated the potential range of additional income, as a result of the Quebec investment tax credit, to be between CAD $1.0 million and $18.4 million. There could be a significant impact to our uncertain tax position over the next twelve months depending on the outcome of the on-going CRA audit. In the event the CRA audit results in adjustments that exceed both our income tax reserves and available deferred tax assets, our Canadian subsidiary may become a tax paying entity in 2008 or in a prior year including potential penalties and interest. Any such penalties cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. We are seeking United States tax treaty relief through the appropriate Competent Authority tribunals for the settlements entered into with CRA and will seek treaty relief for all subsequent final settlements. Although we believe we have reasonable basis for our tax positions, it is possible an adverse outcome could have a material effect upon our financial condition, operating results or cash flows in a particular quarter or annual period. Other Foreign Tax Examinations. As we continue to expand internationally, we may become subject to review by various foreign taxing authorities which could negatively impact our financial results. While we have reserved for these uncertainties and do not expect the outcomes of these reviews to be material to our operations, our current assessment as to the potential financial impact of these reviews could prove incorrect and we may incur income tax liability in excess of our current reserves. Evolving regulation of the Internet may increase our expenditures related to compliance efforts, which may adversely affect our financial condition. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies may become more likely. We are particularly sensitive to these risks because the Internet is a critical component of our business model. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for solutions accessed via the Internet and restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our customers via the Internet. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of internet-based services, which could harm our business. 24 Table of Contents If we fail to develop our brand cost-effectively, our customers may not recognize our brand and we may incur significant expenses, which would harm our business and financial condition. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future solutions and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market intensifies. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely upon the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful solutions at competitive prices. In the past, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expense, and we expect to increase that expense in connection with our branding and marketing processes. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to promote successfully and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business could suffer. Our stock price is likely to be volatile and could decline. The stock market in general and the market for technology-related stocks in particular has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our Class A common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our Class A common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: • Our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • The overall performance of the equity markets; • developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • publication of unfavorable research reports about us or our industry or withdrawal of research; • coverage by securities analysts or lack of coverage by securities analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community; • general economic conditions and data and the impact of such conditions and data on the equity markets; • terrorist acts; and • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new technologies, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures, or capital commitments. We may need to raise additional capital, which may not be available, thereby adversely affecting our ability to operate our business. If we need to raise additional funds due to unforeseen circumstances, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, and any additional financings could result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to meet our business objectives, our stock price may fall and you may lose some or all of your investment. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could increase the difficulty for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. For example, if a potential acquirer were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquirer would not be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors or act by written consent without a meeting. In addition, our board of directors has staggered terms, which means that replacing a majority of our directors would require at least two annual meetings. The acquirer would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to replace directors at any annual meeting, and will not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which will require the acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on the board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. 25 Table of Contents Our board of directors also has the ability to issue preferred stock that could significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% or greater stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 