Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves significant risks, including the following: OUR COMMON STOCK IS SUBJECT TO PENNY STOCK RULES, WHICH MAKES INVESTMENT IN OUR STOCK SPECULATIVE OR RISKY. Our common stock is covered by a Securities and Exchange Commission rule that imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. For transactions covered by the rule, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers of our stock to sell their shares in the secondary market. It may also cause less broker dealers willing to make a market and it may affect the level of news coverage we receive. OUR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS ARE RESIDENT OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES AND THEREFORE, IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR INVESTORS TO EFFECT SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON THEM. Since certain of our directors and officers are resident outside of the United States (the “US”), it may not be possible to effect service of process upon such directors and officers. All or a substantial portion of the assets of such directors and officers may be located outside of the US, and accordingly there may be difficulty or, increased costs involved, in enforcing judgments obtained in US courts against such directors and officers. Similarly, essentially all of our assets are located outside the US and there may be difficulties in enforcing judgments obtained in US courts against us. Furthermore, it would be difficult for investors to commence an original action in Canadian courts to enforce liabilities based upon U.S. federal securities laws against us or any of our directors and officers resident outside the U.S. because it is outside the jurisdiction of Canadian cou rts to enforce liabilities based upon U.S. federal securities laws. - 8 - WE HAVE NOT BEEN PROFITABLE AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO INCUR LOSSES AND, THEREFORE, REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT OUTSIDE FUNDING TO IMPLEMENT OUR BUSINESS PLAN. We have limited financial resources, have no source of operating cash flow and have no assurance that additional funding will be available to us for further exploration and development of our projects or to fulfil our obligations under any applicable agreements. Furthermore, we reported a net loss of $121,483 for the year ended May 31, 2005 and an accumulated deficit of $2,541,302 for the same period. There is no guarantee that our business will become profitable. Accordingly, the purchase of common stock should be considered a highly speculative investment. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves through drilling, to develop metallurgical processes to extract the metal from the ore and, in the case of new concessions, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. If our exploration programs are successful, additional funds will be required for the development of an economic ore body and for placement of a concession or concessions into commercial production. The only sources of future funds presently available to us are the sale of equity capital, or the offering by us of an interest in our concessions to be earned by another party or parties carrying out further exploration or development thereof. Although we have been successful in the past in obtaining financing through the sale of equity securities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate fin ancing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be favourable. In addition, there is currently a large number of outstanding common stock and any additional stock issuances through the sale of equity securities will result in further dilution to our stockholders. However, failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of our projects with the possible loss of such concessions. WE ARE INVOLVED IN A HIGHLY SPECULATIVE INDUSTRY WITH RESOURCE PROPERTIES THAT ARE ONLY IN THE EXPLORATION STAGE AND, THEREFORE, OUR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES MAY NOT RESULT IN ANY DISCOVERIES OF COMMERCIAL ORE. We are in the business of exploring natural resource properties, which is a highly speculative endeavour. The resource properties in which we hold interests are in the exploration stage only and are without a known body of commercial ore. There is no assurance our exploration and development activities will result in any discoveries of commercial ore. The long-term profitability of our operations will be in part directly related to the cost and success of our exploration activities. If we fail to discover any bodies of commercial ore, we will have to raise funds through the sale of equity securities so that we can continue in the business of exploring natural resource properties. - 9 - WE MAY EXPERIENCE CERTAIN HAZARDS AND RISKS NORMALLY INCIDENTAL TO EXPLORING NATURAL RESOURCE PROPERTIES. Operations in which we have a direct or indirect interest will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of minerals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to or destruction of mines and other producing facilities, damage to life and property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for all damage. We have not experienced material losses due to any of the foregoing hazards because our properties are at an early exploration stage, with no established mineral reserves. If we begin drilling operations with large mechanized equipment, we may be exposed to any of the foregoing hazards. Given that our operations are at an early exploration stage, we do not maintain liability insurance. We will have to consider obtaining insurance above any insurance maintained by our subcontractors providing exploration se rvices if we begin drilling operations. If we do not obtain insurance, the payment of liabilities for any such hazards may have a material adverse effect on our business. WE MAY FAIL TO COMPLY WITH ALL OF THE FEDERAL, PROVINCIAL AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND THEREBY BE SUBJECT TO PENALTIES OR BE PREVENTED FROM IMPLEMENTING OUR BUSINESS PLAN. There can be no guarantee that we or any of our joint venture partners will be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals from various federal, provincial and local governmental authorities that may be required in order to undertake exploration activity or commence construction or operation of mine facilities on our properties. If we or any of our joint venture partners are unable to obtain any of the necessary permits, we will not be able to conduct exploration activities on our resource properties and will lose the opportunity to discover minerals. Our inability to conduct exploration activities on any of our resource properties may have a material adverse effect on our business. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION AND THE COST OF COMPLIANCE MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR PROFITABILITY. Currently, there are no environmental regulations that materially impact us because exploration activities are at an early stage. Reclamation work, that is, restoring the property to its original state, is minimal because exploration activities have virtually no environmental impact. Any remedial environmental reclamation consists of slashing underbrush so that wildlife movement is not hampered and basic re-seeding operations. However, all phases of our operations will be subject to environmental regulation in the jurisdiction in which we operate when we begin drilling operations. Environmental legislation provides for restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with certain mining industry operations, such as seepage from tailings disposal areas, which would result in environmental pollution. In addition, certain types of operations require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner, which means stricter standards, and enforcement, fines and penalties for non-compliance are more stringent. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers and employees. The cost of compliance with - 10 - changes in governmental regulation has a potential to reduce the profitability of operations. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not have an adverse effect on our operations. OUR PROPERTIES MAY BE SUBJECT TO ABORIGINAL PEOPLES’ LAND CLAIMS, WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES. Our properties may in future be the subject of aboriginal peoples' land claims. The legal basis of a land claim is a matter of considerable complexity and the impact of a land claims settlement cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty, and no assurance can be given that a broad recognition of aboriginal rights by way of a negotiated settlement or judicial pronouncement would not have an adverse effect on our activities, including the loss of the ability to conduct further exploration on our properties. OUR PROPERTIES MAY BE SUBJECT TO UNREGISTERED AGREEMENTS, TRANSFERS OR CLAIMS AND TITLE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNDETECTED DEFECTS. Our properties may be subject to unregistered agreements, transfers or claims and title may be adversely affected by undetected defects. We have not conducted surveys of the properties in which we hold interests and therefore, the precise area and location of such properties may be in doubt. There is no guarantee that title to such property will not be challenged or impugned. THE PRICES OF PRECIOUS AND BASE MINERALS AND METALS FLUCTUATE WIDELY AND MAY NOT PRODUCE ENOUGH REVENUE TO COVER OUR COSTS. Our revenues, if any, are expected to be in large part derived from the extraction and sale of precious and base minerals and metals. The price of such metals or interest related thereto has fluctuated widely and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include international economic and political conditions, expectations of inflation, international currency exchange rates, interest rates, global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities, levels of supply and demand, increased production due to new mine developments and improved mining and production methods, availability and costs of metal substitutes, metal stock levels maintained by producers and others and inventory carrying costs. The exact effect of these factors on our business cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in our not receiving an adequate return o n invested capital as required to cover costs of operations. INVOLVEMENT BY OUR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS IN OTHER COMPETING ENTERPRISES MAY RESULT IN CONFLICTS OF INTEREST THAT COMPROMISE THE SUCCESSFUL IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR BUSINESS PLAN. Certain of our directors and officers also directors and officers of other companies engaged in natural resource exploration and development, and as a result, conflicts of interest may arise. Our - 11 - directors and officers with conflicts of interest will be subject to the laws of the Province of British Columbia and will be required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of the company. In addition directors with a conflict of interest will be required to disclose such conflicts to the Board of Directors and are prohibited in voting in such circumstances. Conflicts may result in potential explorations opportunities being lost to other competing enterprises in which a director or officer is involved, in which case we may lose any potential benefit from such exploration activity. US INVESTORS WILL BE SUBJECT TO US TAXATION AT POSSIBLY ADVERSE OR HIGHER RATES AND UNDER A SYSTEM THAT MAY BE MORE COMPLICATED AND UNFAMILIAR TO THEM. If at any time we qualify as a passive foreign investment company under US tax laws, US investors may be subject to adverse tax consequences. We could be a passive foreign investment company if 75% or more of our gross income in any year is considered passive income for US tax purposes. For this purpose, passive income generally includes interest, dividends, some types of rents and royalties, and gains from the sale of assets that produce these types of income. In addition, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company if the average percentage of our assets during any year that produced passive income, or that were held to produce passive income, is at least 50%. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, and if shareholders sell any of their common shares or receive some types of distributions from us, they may have to pay taxes that are higher than if we were not considered a passive foreign investment company. It is impossible to predict how much shareholders' taxes would increase, if at all. Based on the nature of our revenue and our anticipated corporate structure, we may be treated as a passive foreign investment company. To determine whether we are a passive foreign investment company, we will be required to examine each year our revenue and expenses and the value of our assets. The tests are complex and require, among other things, that we determine how much of our income each year will be passive income. We do not have the necessary data to determine whether these tests will be met for the year 2004 or future years, nor can we predict whether the tests are likely to be met. Moreover, the manner in which the tests apply to our business is not certain. Each investor in our common shares is urged to consult his, her or its own tax advisor to discuss the potential consequences to such investor if at any time we qualify as a passive foreign investment company. VOLATILITY OF THE OVER-THE-COUNTER BULLETIN BOARD ("OTC BB") MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Certain stocks listed on the OTC BB have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and decreases which have adversely affected the market price of our stock and other stocks listed on the OTC BB without any regard to the underlying fundamentals of such stocks. These broad market fluctuations, which may occur in the future, as well as issues more specifically related to our business activities or prospects, or our financial performance, may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. - 12 - NO CASH DIVIDENDS ARE EXPECTED TO BE PAID IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance our business and operations and any future growth. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. THERE IS A POTENTIAL LACK OF ATTRACTIVE INVESTMENT TARGETS. Continued volatility of stock prices on the OTC BB may have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital on the OTC BB or by private investment, and the price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially. 