ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSImportant risk factors that could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated operating results and growth plan goals are presented below. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of our business and the factors affecting our business located elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC.Demand for our systems and services depends on oil and gas industry activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in the demand for and price of crude oil and natural gas.We are substantially dependent on conditions in the oil and gas industry, including the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. Any substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the reduced pace of discovery and development of new reserves of oil and gas and the reduced exploitation of existing wells, which could adversely affect demand for our systems and services and, in certain instances, result in the cancellation, modification or rescheduling of existing orders. These factors could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. The level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which, historically, have been volatile.Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following:•demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates and general economic and business conditions;•costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;•political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest;•available excess production capacity within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries;•oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas;•technological advances affecting energy consumption;•potential acceleration of the development of alternative fuels;•access to capital and credit markets, which may affect our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services; and•natural disasters.The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.The industries in which we operate or have operated expose us to potential liabilities arising out of the installation or use of our systems that could adversely affect our financial condition.We are subject to equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, equipment misuse and natural disasters, the occurrence of which may result in uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. Although we have obtained insurance against many of these risks, our insurance may not be adequate to cover our liabilities. Further, the insurance may not generally be available in the future or, if available, premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.11Table of ContentsOur operations require us to comply with numerous U.S. and international regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We are exposed to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to matters such as environmental, health and safety, labor and employment, import/export control, currency exchange, bribery and corruption and taxation. These laws and regulations are complex, frequently change and have tended to become more stringent over time. In the event the scope of these laws and regulations expand in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Our operations outside of the United States require us to comply with numerous anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations under the laws of the United States and various other countries. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) Bribery Act and the China Anti-Unfair Competition Law, among others, apply to us and our operations. We have internal control policies and procedures and have implemented training and compliance programs for our employees and agents with respect to these regulations. However, our policies, procedures and programs may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents, and severe criminal or civil sanctions may be imposed as a result of violations of these laws. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners and agents outside of the United States may fail to comply with applicable laws.Moreover, we import raw materials, semi-finished goods, as well as finished products into many countries for use in such countries or for manufacturing and/or finishing for re-export and import into another country for use or further integration into equipment or systems. Most movement of raw materials, semi-finished or finished products involves imports and exports. As a result, compliance with multiple trade sanctions, embargoes and import/export laws and regulations, as well as the recently enacted conflict minerals reporting requirements, pose a constant challenge and risk to us since our business is conducted on a worldwide basis through various subsidiaries. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could materially affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.Compliance with environmental regulations may adversely affect our business and operating results. Environmental laws and regulations affect the equipment, systems and services we design, market and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems. We are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations and anticipate that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. These regulations, as well as the adoption of other laws and regulations affecting exploration and development of drilling for crude oil and natural gas, could adversely affect our business and operating results by increasing our costs, limiting the demand for our systems and services or restricting our operations.International, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting emissions commonly referred to as greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. For instance, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has made findings that GHG emissions endanger public health and the environment and, based on these findings, has adopted regulations that restrict GHG emissions under existing provisions of the federal U.S. Clean Air Act, including one that requires a reduction of GHG emissions from motor vehicles and another that requires certain construction and operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from certain sources, including onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities and onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. These developments may curtail production and demand for oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and could adversely affect future demand for our products and services. Moreover, environmental concerns have been raised regarding the potential impact of hydraulic fracturing or “fracking” on underground water supplies. We provide equipment and services to companies employing this enhanced recovery technique. There have been several regulatory and governmental initiatives in the United States to restrict the hydraulic fracturing process, which could have an adverse impact on our customers’ completion or production activities. The EPA issued rules on April 17, 2012, which become effective in January 2015, designed to limit the release of volatile organic compounds, or pollutants, from natural gas wells that are hydraulically fractured. Certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. Hydraulic fracturing restrictions also have been or are being considered for adoption in other countries. Should additional governmental regulations ultimately be imposed that further restrict or curtail hydraulic fracturing activities, the demand for our equipment and services could be impacted, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.12Table of ContentsDisruptions in the political, regulatory, economic and social conditions of the foreign countries in which we conduct business could adversely affect our business or results of operations.We operate manufacturing facilities in 15 countries outside of the United States and approximately 75% of our 2012 revenue was generated internationally. Instability and unforeseen changes in the international markets in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas such as North Africa, West Africa, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States (“CIS”), could have an adverse effect on the demand for our systems and services, our financial condition or our results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:•nationalization and expropriation;•potentially burdensome taxation;•inflationary and recessionary markets, including capital and equity markets;•civil unrest, labor issues, political instability, terrorist attacks, cyber-terrorism, military activity and wars;•supply disruptions in key oil producing countries;•ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing;•trade restrictions, trade protection measures or price controls;•foreign ownership restrictions;•import or export licensing requirements;•restrictions on operations, trade practices, trade partners and investment decisions resulting from domestic and foreign laws and regulations;•changes in, and the administration of, laws and regulations;•inability to repatriate income or capital;•reductions in the availability of qualified personnel;•foreign currency fluctuations or currency restrictions; and•fluctuations in the interest rate component of forward foreign currency rates.Because a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in foreign currencies, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in our revenue, costs and earnings and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside of the United States and the amount of our stockholders’ equity. Although it is our policy to seek to minimize our currency exposure by engaging in hedging transactions where appropriate, our efforts may not be successful. To the extent we sell our products and services in foreign markets, currency fluctuations may result in our products and services becoming too expensive for foreign customers. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our financial results.We may lose money on fixed-price contracts.As is customary for the types of businesses in which we operate, we often agree to provide products and services under fixed-price contracts. Under these contracts, we are typically responsible for cost overruns. Our actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts may vary from the estimated amounts on which these contracts were originally based. There is inherent risk in the estimation process, including significant unforeseen technical and logistical challenges or longer than expected lead times. A fixed-price contract may prohibit our ability to mitigate the impact of unanticipated increases in raw material prices through increased pricing. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Disruptions in the timely delivery of our backlog could affect our future sales, profitability, and our relationships with our customers.Many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times due to complex technical and logistical requirements. These contracts may contain penalty clauses relating to on-time delivery, and a failure by us to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to contractual penalties, reduce our margins on these contracts or result in damage to existing customer relationships. The ability to meet customer delivery schedules for this backlog is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, subcontractor performance, project engineering expertise, sufficient manufacturing 13Table of Contentsplant capacity and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. Failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance.Due to the types of contracts we enter into, the cumulative loss of several major contracts or alliances may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.We often enter into large, long-term contracts that, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue. For example, we have an alliance of this type with Shell, from which we generated approximately 10% of our consolidated revenue in 2012. These agreements, if terminated or breached, may have a larger impact on our operating results or our financial condition than shorter-term contracts due to the value at risk. If we were to lose several key alliances or agreements over a relatively short period of time we could experience a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.A deterioration in future expected profitability or cash flows could result in an impairment of our recorded goodwill.Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently when impairment indicators arise. Reporting units with goodwill are tested for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, or based on management’s judgment, we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is performed. When using the quantitative test, the estimated fair value of each reporting unit is determined using discounted future expected cash flow models which require the use and application of certain estimates, including but not limited to, estimates of future cash flows and the selection of a discount rate. The results of our 2012 goodwill impairments tests indicated there was no impairment of goodwill. A lower fair value estimate in the future for any of our reporting units could result in goodwill impairments. Factors that could trigger a lower fair value estimate include changes in customer demand, cost increases, regulatory or political environment changes, and other changes in market conditions, such as decreased prices in market-based transactions for similar assets, which could impact future earnings of the reporting unit. At December 31, 2012, recorded goodwill of $66.9 million was allocated to our DDS reporting unit. As a result of large investments in research and development and delays in the qualification of products related to bringing certain technologies to market, the financial results of our DDS reporting unit have been negatively impacted. While management is taking steps to improve the financial results of DDS by securing certain technology licensing agreements in response to a maturing market, should these efforts not result in performance improvements, the estimates and assumptions used in our goodwill impairment test for DDS would require re-evaluation and could result in an impairment of goodwill for this reporting unit.Increased costs of raw materials and other components may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows.Our results of operations may be adversely affected by our inability to manage the rising costs and availability of raw materials and components used in our wide variety of products and systems. Unexpected changes in the size and timing of regional and/or product markets, particularly for short lead-time products, could affect our results of operations or cash flows.Our businesses are dependent on the continuing services of certain of our key managers and employees.We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of any of these officers or key management could adversely impact our business if we are unable to implement key strategies or transactions in their absence. In addition, competition for qualified employees among companies, like ours, that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense. The loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products and services.A failure of our information technology infrastructure could adversely impact our business and results of operations.The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology (“IT”) systems. Accordingly, we rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our IT hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, incursions by intruders or hackers, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations, cyber terrorists and other similar disruptions. The failure of our IT systems to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of operations, inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, increased overhead 14Table of Contentscosts and loss of important information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.Our success depends on our ability to implement new technologies and services.Our success depends on the ongoing development and implementation of new product designs and improvements and on our ability to protect and maintain critical intellectual property assets related to these developments. If we are not able to obtain patent or other protection of our technology, we may not be able to continue to develop systems, services and technologies to meet evolving industry requirements, and if so, at prices acceptable to our customers.Some of our competitors are large national and multinational companies that may be able to devote greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources to the research and development of new systems, services and technologies than we are able to do. If we are unable to compete effectively given these risks, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.Uninsured claims and litigation against us, including intellectual property litigation, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We could be impacted by the outcome of pending litigation, as well as unexpected litigation or proceedings. We have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available. However, no assurance can be given that the nature and amount of that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. Our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance.In addition, the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. If a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs.A downgrade in the rating of our debt could restrict our ability to access the capital markets.Changes in the ratings assigned to our debt may impact our access to the debt capital markets. If ratings for our debt fall below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets could become restricted. Moreover, our revolving credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded. An increase in the level of our indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.15Table of Contents