Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The businesses of PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the events or conditions identified below. The occurrence of one or more of these events or conditions could have an adverse effect on the business of any one or more of the companies, including, depending on the circumstances, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unless otherwise noted, each risk factor set forth below applies to each of PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE. PHI and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation, and unfavorable regulatory treatment could have a negative effect. PHI’s Power Delivery businesses are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly affects their operations. Each of Pepco, DPL and ACE is regulated by state regulatory agencies in its service territories, with respect to, among other things, the rates it can charge retail customers for the supply and distribution of electricity (and additionally for DPL the supply and distribution of natural gas). In addition, the rates that the companies can charge for electricity transmission are regulated by FERC, and DPL’s natural gas transportation is regulated by FERC. The companies cannot change supply, distribution, or transmission rates without approval by the applicable regulatory authority. While the approved distribution and transmission rates are intended to permit the companies to recover their costs of service and earn a reasonable rate of return, the profitability of the companies is affected by the rates they are able to charge. In addition, if the costs incurred by any of the companies in operating its transmission and distribution facilities exceed the allowed amounts for costs included in the approved rates, the financial results of that company, and correspondingly, PHI, will be adversely affected. PHI’s subsidiaries also are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies that regulate their businesses. PHI believes that each of its subsidiaries has, and each of Pepco, DPL and ACE believes it has, obtained or sought renewal of the material permits, approvals and certificates necessary for its existing operations and that its business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, none of the companies is able to predict the impact of future regulatory activities of any of these agencies on its business. Changes in or reinterpretations of existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, may require any one or more of PHI’s subsidiaries to incur additional expenses or significant capital expenditures or to change the way it conducts its operations. Pepco may be required to make additional divestiture proceeds gain-sharing payments to customers in the District of Columbia and Maryland. (PHI and Pepco only) Pepco currently is involved in regulatory proceedings in Maryland and the District of Columbia related to the sharing of the net proceeds from the sale of its generation-related assets. The principal issue in the proceedings is whether Pepco should be required to share with customers the excess deferred income taxes and accumulated deferred investment tax credits associated with the sold assets and, if so, whether such sharing would violate the normalization provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and its implementing regulations. Depending on the 20 outcome of the proceedings, Pepco could be required to make additional gain-sharing payments to customers and payments to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the amount of the associated accumulated deferred investment tax credits, and Pepco might be unable to use accelerated depreciation on District of Columbia and Maryland allocated or assigned property. See Item 7 “PHI -- Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Regulatory and Other Matters -- Divestiture Cases” for additional information. The operating results of the Power Delivery business and the Competitive Energy businesses fluctuate on a seasonal basis and can be adversely affected by changes in weather. The Power Delivery business is seasonal and weather patterns can have a material impact on their operating performance. Demand for electricity is generally higher in the summer months associated with cooling and demand for electricity and natural gas is generally higher in the winter months associated with heating as compared to other times of the year. Accordingly, each of PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE has generated less revenue and income when temperatures are warmer than normal in the winter and cooler than normal in the summer. In Maryland, however, the decoupling of distribution revenue for a given reporting period, from the amount of power delivered during the period as the result of the adoption by the MPSC of a bill stabilization adjustment mechanism for retail customers, has had the effect of eliminating changes in customer usage due to weather conditions or for other reasons as a factor having an impact on reported revenue and income. Historically, the competitive energy operations of Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services also have produced less revenue when weather conditions are milder than normal, which can negatively impact PHI’s income from these operations. The Competitive Energy businesses’ energy management services generally are not seasonal. Facilities may not operate as planned or may require significant maintenance expenditures, which could decrease revenues or increase expenses. Operation of the Pepco, DPL and ACE transmission and distribution facilities and the Competitive Energy businesses’ generation facilities involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of equipment, accidents, labor disputes and performance below expected levels. Older facilities and equipment, even if maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures for additions or upgrades to keep them operating at peak efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide reliable operations. Natural disasters and weather-related incidents, including tornadoes, hurricanes and snow and ice storms, also can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. Operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities below expected capacity levels can reduce revenues and result in the incurrence of additional expenses that may not be recoverable from customers or through insurance, including deficiency charges imposed by PJM on generation facilities at a rate up to two times the capacity payment price which the generation facility receives. Furthermore, if the company owning the facilities is unable to perform its contractual obligations for any of these reasons, that company, and correspondingly PHI, may incur penalties or damages. 21 The transmission facilities of the Power Delivery business are interconnected with the facilities of other transmission facility owners whose actions could have a negative impact on operations. The electricity transmission facilities of Pepco, DPL and ACE are directly interconnected with the transmission facilities of contiguous utilities and, as such, are part of an interstate power transmission grid. FERC has designated a number of regional transmission organizations to coordinate the operation of portions of the interstate transmission grid. Pepco, DPL and ACE are members of the PJM RTO. In 1997, FERC approved PJM as the sole provider of transmission service in the PJM RTO region, which today consists of all or parts of Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. Pepco, DPL and ACE operate their transmission facilities under the direction and control of PJM. PJM RTO and the other regional transmission organizations have established sophisticated systems that are designed to ensure the reliability of the operation of transmission facilities and prevent the operations of one utility from having an adverse impact on the operations of the other utilities. However, the systems put in place by PJM RTO and the other regional transmission organizations may not always be adequate to prevent problems at other utilities from causing service interruptions in the transmission facilities of Pepco, DPL or ACE. If any of Pepco, DPL or ACE were to suffer such a service interruption, it could have a negative impact on it and on PHI. The cost of compliance with environmental laws, including laws relating to emissions of greenhouse gases, is significant and new environmental laws may increase expenses. The operations of PHI’s subsidiaries, including Pepco, DPL and ACE, are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, spill prevention, waste management, natural resources, site remediation, and health and safety. These laws and regulations can require significant capital and other expenditures to, among other things, meet emissions standards, conduct site remediation and perform environmental monitoring. If a company fails to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, such failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities and the need to expend significant sums to come into compliance. In addition, PHI’s subsidiaries are required to obtain and comply with a variety of environmental permits, licenses, inspections and other approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval, or if there is a failure to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be halted or subjected to additional costs. There is growing concern at the federal and state levels about CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect. Any of these factors could result in increased capital expenditures and/or operating costs for one or more generating plants operated by PHI’s Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services businesses. Until specific regulations are promulgated, the impact that any new environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines, enforcement initiatives, or legislation may have on the results of operations, financial position or liquidity of PHI and its subsidiaries is not determinable. 22 PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE each continues to monitor federal and state activity related to environmental matters in order to analyze their potential operational and cost implications. New environmental laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could impose more stringent limitations on the operations of PHI’s subsidiaries or require them to incur significant additional costs. Current compliance strategies may not successfully address the relevant standards and interpretations of the future. Failure to retain and attract key skilled professional and technical employees could have an adverse effect on the operations. The ability of each of PHI and its subsidiaries, including Pepco, DPL and ACE, to implement its business strategy is dependent on its ability to recruit, retain and motivate employees. Competition for skilled employees in some areas is high and the inability to retain and attract these employees could adversely affect the company’s business, operations and financial condition. PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses are highly competitive. (PHI only) The unregulated energy generation, supply and marketing businesses primarily in the mid-Atlantic region are characterized by intense competition at both the wholesale and retail levels. PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses compete with numerous non-utility generators, independent power producers, wholesale and retail energy marketers, and traditional utilities. This competition generally has the effect of reducing margins and requires a continual focus on controlling costs. PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses rely on some generation, transmission, storage, and distribution assets that they do not own or control to deliver wholesale and retail electricity and natural gas and to obtain fuel for their generation facilities. (PHI only) PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses depend upon electric generation and transmission facilities, natural gas pipelines, and natural gas storage facilities owned and operated by others. The operation of their generation facilities also depends upon coal, natural gas or diesel fuel supplied by others. If electric generation or transmission, natural gas pipelines, or natural gas storage are disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, the Competitive Energy businesses’ ability to buy and receive and/or sell and deliver wholesale and retail power and natural gas, and therefore to fulfill their contractual obligations, could be adversely affected. Similarly, if the fuel supply to one or more of their generation plants is disrupted and storage or other alternative sources of supply are not available, the Competitive Energy businesses’ ability to operate their generating facilities could be adversely affected. Changes in technology may adversely affect the Power Delivery business and PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses. Research and development activities are ongoing to improve alternative technologies to produce electricity, including fuel cells, micro turbines and photovoltaic (solar) cells. It is possible that advances in these or other alternative technologies will reduce the costs of electricity production from these technologies, thereby making the generating facilities of PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses less competitive. In addition, increased conservation efforts and advances in technology could reduce demand for electricity supply and distribution, which could 23 adversely affect the Power Delivery businesses of Pepco, DPL and ACE and PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses. Changes in technology also could alter the channels through which retail electric customers buy electricity, which could adversely affect the Power Delivery businesses of Pepco, DPL and ACE. PHI’s risk management procedures may not prevent losses in the operation of its Competitive Energy businesses. (PHI only) The operations of PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses are conducted in accordance with sophisticated risk management systems that are designed to quantify risk. However, actual results sometimes deviate from modeled expectations. In particular, risks in PHI’s energy activities are measured and monitored utilizing value-at-risk models to determine the effects of potential one-day favorable or unfavorable price movements. These estimates are based on historical price volatility and assume a normal distribution of price changes and a 95% probability of occurrence. Consequently, if prices significantly deviate from historical prices, PHI’s risk management systems, including assumptions supporting risk limits, may not protect PHI from significant losses. In addition, adverse changes in energy prices may result in economic losses in PHI’s earnings and cash flows and reductions in the value of assets on its balance sheet under applicable accounting rules. The commodity hedging procedures used by PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses may not protect them from significant losses caused by volatile commodity prices. (PHI only) To lower the financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses routinely enter into contracts to hedge the value of their assets and operations. As part of this strategy, PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses utilize fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, tolling agreements, futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Each of these various hedge instruments can present a unique set of risks in its application to PHI’s energy assets. PHI must apply judgment in determining the application and effectiveness of each hedge instrument. Changes in accounting rules, or revised interpretations to existing rules, may cause hedges to be deemed ineffective as an accounting matter. This could have material earnings implications for the period or periods in question. Conectiv Energy’s objective is to hedge a portion of the expected power output of its generation facilities and the costs of fuel used to operate those facilities so it is not completely exposed to energy price movements. Hedge targets are approved by PHI’s Corporate Risk Management Committee and may change from time to time based on market conditions. Conectiv Energy generally establishes hedge targets annually for the next three succeeding 12-month periods. Within a given 12-month horizon, the actual hedged positioning in any month may be outside of the targeted range, even if the average for a 12-month period falls within the stated range. Management exercises judgment in determining which months present the most significant risk, or opportunity, and hedge levels are adjusted accordingly. Since energy markets can move significantly in a short period of time, hedge levels may also be adjusted to reflect revised assumptions. Such factors may include, but are not limited to, changes in projected plant output, revisions to fuel requirements, transmission constraints, prices of alternate fuels, and improving or deteriorating supply and demand conditions. In addition, short-term occurrences, such as abnormal weather, operational events, or intra-month commodity price volatility may also cause the actual level of hedging coverage to vary from the established hedge targets. These events can cause fluctuations in PHI’s earnings from period to period. Due to the high heat rate of the Pepco Energy Services generating 24 facilities, Pepco Energy Services generally does not enter into wholesale contracts to lock in the forward value of its plants. To the extent that PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses have unhedged positions or their hedging procedures do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could result in significant losses. Conversely, by engaging in hedging activities, PHI may not realize gains that otherwise could result from fluctuating commodity prices. Business operations could be adversely affected by terrorism. The threat of, or actual acts of, terrorism may affect the operations of PHI or any of its subsidiaries in unpredictable ways and may cause changes in the insurance markets, force an increase in security measures and cause disruptions of fuel supplies and markets. If any of its infrastructure facilities, such as its electric generation, fuel storage, transmission or distribution facilities, were to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of an act of terrorism, the operations of PHI, Pepco, DPL or ACE could be adversely affected. Corresponding instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism also could adversely affect the ability to raise needed capital. Insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all casualty losses that the companies might incur. PHI and its subsidiaries, including Pepco, DPL and ACE, currently have insurance coverage for their facilities and operations in amounts and with deductibles that they consider appropriate. However, there is no assurance that such insurance coverage will be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, some risks, such as weather related casualties, may not be insurable. In the case of loss or damage to property, plant or equipment, there is no assurance that the insurance proceeds, if any, received will be sufficient to cover the entire cost of replacement or repair. Revenues, profits and cash flows may be adversely affected by economic conditions. Periods of slowed economic activity generally result in decreased demand for power, particularly by industrial and large commercial customers. As a consequence, recessions or other downturns in the economy may result in decreased revenues and cash flows for the Power Delivery businesses of Pepco, DPL and ACE and PHI’s Competitive Energy businesses. The IRS challenge to cross-border energy sale and lease-back transactions entered into by a PHI subsidiary could result in loss of prior and future tax benefits. (PHI only) PCI maintains a portfolio of cross-border energy sale-leaseback transactions, which as of December 31, 2007, had a book value of approximately $1.4 billion and from which PHI currently derives approximately $60 million per year in tax benefits in the form of interest and depreciation deductions. On February 11, 2005, the Treasury Department and IRS issued a notice informing taxpayers that the IRS intends to challenge the tax benefits claimed by taxpayers with respect to certain of these transactions. As part of the normal PHI tax audit for 2001 and 2002, the IRS disallowed the tax benefits claimed by PHI with respect to these leases for those years. The tax benefits claimed by PHI with respect to these leases from 2001 through December 31, 2007 were approximately $347 million. PHI has filed a protest against the IRS adjustments and the unresolved audit has been forwarded to the IRS Appeals Office. If the IRS prevails, PHI would be subject to 25 additional taxes, along with interest and possibly penalties on the additional taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on PHI’s results of operations and cash flows. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Regulatory and Other Matters -- Federal Tax Treatment of Cross-Border Leases” for additional information. Changes in tax law could have a material adverse effect on the tax benefits that PHI realizes from the portfolio of cross-border energy sale-leaseback transactions entered into by one of its subsidiaries. In recent years, efforts have been made by members of the U.S. Senate to pass legislation that would have the effect of deferring the deduction of losses associated with leveraged lease transactions involving tax-indifferent parties for taxable years beginning after the year of enactment regardless of when the transaction was entered into. These proposals, which would affect transactions such as those included in PCI’s portfolio of cross-border energy leases, would effectively defer the deduction of losses associated with such leveraged lease transactions until the taxable year in which the taxpayer recognized taxable income from the lease, which is typically toward the end of the lease term. To date, no such legislation has been enacted; however, there are continuing efforts by members of the U.S. Senate to add legislation to various Senate bills directed to the deferral or other curtailment of the tax benefits realized from such transactions. Enactment of legislation of this nature could result in a material delay of the income tax benefits that PHI would receive in connection with PCI’s portfolio of cross-border energy leases. Furthermore, if legislation of this type were enacted, under the Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position on Financial Accounting Standard 13-2, PHI would be required to adjust the book value of the leases and record a charge to earnings equal to the repricing impact of the deferred deductions which could result in a material adverse effect on PHI’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. IRS Revenue Ruling 2005-53 on Mixed Service Costs could require PHI to incur additional tax and interest payments in connection with the IRS audit of this issue for the tax years 2001 through 2004 (IRS Revenue Ruling 2005-53). During 2001, Pepco, DPL and ACE changed their methods of accounting with respect to capitalizable construction costs for income tax purposes. The change allowed the companies to accelerate the deduction of certain expenses that were previously capitalized and depreciated. Through December 31, 2005, these accelerated deductions generated incremental tax cash flow benefits of approximately $205 million (consisting of $94 million for Pepco, $62 million for DPL and $49 million for ACE) for the companies, primarily attributable to their 2001 tax returns. In 2005, the Treasury Department issued proposed regulations that, if adopted in their current form, would require Pepco, DPL and ACE to change their method of accounting with respect to capitalizable construction costs for income tax purposes for future tax periods beginning in 2005. Based on the proposed regulations, PHI in its 2005 federal tax return adopted an alternative method of accounting for capitalizable construction costs that management believes will be acceptable to the IRS. At the same time as the proposed regulations were released, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2005-53, which is intended to limit the ability of certain taxpayers to utilize the method of accounting for income tax purposes they utilized on their tax returns for 2004 and prior years 26 with respect to capitalizable construction costs. In line with this Revenue Ruling, the IRS revenue agent’s report for the 2001 and 2002 tax returns disallowed substantially all of the incremental tax benefits that Pepco, DPL and ACE had claimed on those returns by requiring the companies to capitalize and depreciate certain expenses rather than treat such expenses as current deductions. PHI has filed a protest against the IRS adjustments and the issue is among the unresolved audit matters relating to the 2001 and 2002 audits pending before the Appeals Office. In February 2006, PHI paid approximately $121 million of taxes to cover the amount of additional taxes and interest that management estimated to be payable for the years 2001 through 2004 based on the method of tax accounting that PHI, pursuant to the proposed regulations, adopted on its 2005 tax return. However, if the IRS is successful in requiring Pepco, DPL and ACE to capitalize and depreciate construction costs that result in a tax and interest assessment greater than management’s estimate of $121 million, PHI will be required to pay additional taxes and interest only to the extent these adjustments exceed the $121 million payment made in February 2006. PHI and its subsidiaries are dependent on their ability to successfully access capital markets. An inability to access capital may adversely affect their businesses. PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE each rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity and to satisfy their capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their operations. Capital market disruptions, or a downgrade in credit ratings, would increase the cost of borrowing or could adversely affect the ability to access one or more financial markets. In addition, a reduction in PHI’s credit ratings could require PHI or its subsidiaries to post additional collateral in connection with some of the Competitive Energy businesses’ wholesale marketing and financing activities. Disruptions to the capital markets could include, but are not limited to: · recession or an economic slowdown; · the bankruptcy of one or more energy companies; · significant increases in the prices for oil or other fuel; · a terrorist attack or threatened attacks; or · a significant transmission failure. In accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the SEC rules thereunder, PHI’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting and is required to assess annually the effectiveness of these controls. The inability to certify the effectiveness of these controls due to the identification of one or more material weaknesses in these controls also could increase financing costs or could adversely affect the ability to access one or more financial markets. 27 Future defined benefit plan funding obligations are affected by assumptions regarding the valuation of PHI’s benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets; actual experience which varies from the assumptions could result in an obligation of PHI, Pepco, DPL or ACE to make significant unplanned cash contributions to the Retirement Plan. PHI follows the guidance of SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions” in accounting for pension benefits under its non-contributory defined benefit plan (the PHI Retirement Plan). In addition, on December 31, 2006, PHI implemented SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)” (SFAS No. 158) which requires that companies recognize a net liability or asset to report the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans on the balance sheet. In accordance with these accounting standards, PHI makes assumptions regarding the valuation of benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets. Changes in assumptions, such as the use of a different discount rate or expected return on plan assets, affect the calculation of projected benefit obligations (PBO), accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), reported pension liability, regulated assets, or accumulated other comprehensive income on PHI’s consolidated balance sheet and on the balance sheets of Pepco, DPL and ACE, and reported annual net periodic pension benefit cost on PHI’s consolidated statement of earnings and on the statements of earnings of Pepco, DPL and ACE. Use of alternative assumptions could also impact the expected future cash funding requirements of PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE for the PHI Retirement Plan if the plan did not meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). PHI’s cash flow, ability to pay dividends and ability to satisfy debt obligations depend on the performance of its operating subsidiaries. PHI’s unsecured obligations are effectively subordinated to the liabilities and the outstanding preferred stock of its subsidiaries. (PHI only) PHI is a holding company that conducts its operations entirely through its subsidiaries, and all of PHI’s consolidated operating assets are held by its subsidiaries. Accordingly, PHI’s cash flow, its ability to satisfy its obligations to creditors and its ability to pay dividends on its common stock are dependent upon the earnings of the subsidiaries and the distribution of such earnings to PHI in the form of dividends. The subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts due on any debt or equity securities issued by PHI or to make any funds available for such payment. Because the claims of the creditors of PHI’s subsidiaries and the preferred stockholders of ACE are superior to PHI’s entitlement to dividends, the unsecured debt and obligations of PHI are effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of its subsidiaries and to the rights of the holders of ACE’s preferred stock to receive dividend payments. Energy companies are subject to adverse publicity which makes them vulnerable to negative regulatory and litigation outcomes. The energy sector has been among the sectors of the economy that have been the subject of highly publicized allegations of misconduct in recent years. In addition, many utility companies have been publicly criticized for their performance during natural disasters and 28 weather related incidents. Adverse publicity of this nature may render legislatures, regulatory authorities, and other government officials less likely to view energy companies such as PHI and its subsidiaries in a favorable light, and may cause PHI and its subsidiaries to be susceptible to adverse outcomes with respect to decisions by such bodies. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage an acquisition of PHI. (PHI only) As a Delaware corporation, PHI is subject to the business combination law set forth in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing an acquisition of PHI. Because Pepco is a wholly owned subsidiary of PHI, and each of DPL and ACE are indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of PHI, PHI can exercise substantial control over their dividend policies and businesses and operations. (Pepco, DPL and ACE only) All of the members of each of Pepco’s, DPL’s and ACE’s board of directors, as well as many of Pepco’s, DPL’s and ACE’s executive officers, are officers of PHI or an affiliate of PHI. Among other decisions, each of Pepco’s, DPL’s and ACE’s board is responsible for decisions regarding payment of dividends, financing and capital raising activities, and acquisition and disposition of assets. Within the limitations of applicable law, and subject to the financial covenants under each company’s respective outstanding debt instruments, each of Pepco’s, DPL’s and ACE’s board of directors will base its decisions concerning the amount and timing of dividends, and other business decisions, on the company’s respective earnings, cash flow and capital structure, but may also take into account the business plans and financial requirements of PHI and its other subsidiaries. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Pepco Holdings None. Pepco None. DPL None. ACE None. 29 Item 