Risk Factors Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer material adverse effects due to any of the following risks. We have described below all the risks that we consider material, but those risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business is affected by the uncertainties of economic and political conditions: Our business environment is influenced by conditions in the domestic and global economies. Numerous factors, such as global political conflicts, including situations in the Middle East and other regions, continue to impact macroeconomic parameters and the international capital markets. The uncertainty of economic and political conditions can impact the demand for our products and services and can also make our budgeting and forecasting more difficult. Our Groups are affected by market conditions. For example Medical Solutions (Med) is dependent on the healthcare markets, particularly in the U.S. Some of our Groups are affected considerably by the markets in Asia as well as Middle East, such as Power Generation (PG) and Power Transmission & Distribution (PTD). In addition, the financial condition of our customers may negatively impact our Groups such as, Siemens VDO Automotive (SV), which is a supplier to the automotive industry. Furthermore, the demand for products of certain 3 Table of Contents of our Groups is linked to consumer demand, which may be adversely impacted by the continuing uncertain economic environment. In fiscal year 2006, we continued our strategic reorientation and cost-cutting initiatives across our business Groups but particularly at Communications (Com) and Siemens Business Services (SBS). These include reducing headcount, adjusting existing capacities through consolidation of business activities and manufacturing facilities, as well as streamlining product portfolios. These measures impact our earnings results and any future contribution of these measures to our profitability will be influenced by the actual savings achieved and by our ability to sustain these ongoing efforts. For additional information with respect to our portfolio activities see Item 4: “Information on the company—Portfolio Activities—Dispositions.” We operate in highly competitive markets, which are subject to price pressures and rapid changes: The worldwide markets for our products are highly competitive in terms of pricing, product and service quality, development and introduction time, customer service and financing terms. We face strong competitors, some of which are larger and may have greater resources in a given business area. Siemens faces downward price pressure and is exposed to market downturns or slower growth. Some industries in which we operate are undergoing consolidation, which may result in stronger competitors and a change in our relative market position. In some of our markets, new products must be developed and introduced rapidly in order to capture available opportunities and this can lead to quality problems. Our operating results depend to a significant extent on our abilities to adapt to changes in markets and to reduce the costs of producing high-quality new and existing products. Any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our businesses must keep pace with technological changes and develop new products and services to remain competitive: The markets in which our businesses operate experience rapid and significant changes due to the introduction of innovative technologies. To meet our customers’ needs in these businesses, we must continuously design new, and update existing, products and services and invest in and develop new technologies. This is especially true for our Groups Med and SV. Introducing new offerings and technologies requires a significant commitment to research and development, which may not always result in success. Our sales and profits may suffer if we invest in technologies that do not function as expected or are not accepted in the marketplace as anticipated, if our products or systems are not brought to market in a timely manner, or as they become obsolete. We may have difficulty in identifying and executing portfolio measures: Our strategy includes divesting our interests in some business areas and strengthening others through portfolio measures, including acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and mergers. Transactions such as these are inherently risky because of the difficulties of integrating people, operations, technologies and products that may arise. Strategic alliances may also pose risks for us because we compete in some business areas with companies with which we have strategic alliances. Our divesting activities could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flow at closing, as well as in the future. In addition, we may incur significant acquisition, administrative and other costs in connection with these transactions, including costs related to integration of acquired or restructured businesses. There can be no assurance that any of the businesses we acquire can be successfully integrated or that they will perform well once integrated. Acquisitions may also lead to substantial increases in long-lived assets, including goodwill. Write-downs of these assets due to unforeseen business developments may materially and adversely affect our earnings. Particularly Med, SV, PG, Industrial Solutions and Services (I&S) and Automation and Drives (A&D) have significant amounts of goodwill. In addition, portfolio activities may result in additional financing needs and adversely affect our financial leverage and our debt-to-equity ratio. Our financial results and cash flows may be adversely affected by cost overruns or additional payment obligations particularly with respect to our long-term contracts: A majority of our operating Groups, including SBS, I&S, SBT, PG, PTD and TS perform a significant portion of their business, especially large projects, under long-term contracts that are awarded on a competitive bidding basis. The profit margins realized on such fixed-priced contracts may vary from original estimates as a result of changes in costs and productivity over their term. We sometimes bear the risk of quality problems, cost overruns or contractual penalties caused by unexpected technological problems, unforeseen developments at the project sites, performance problems with our subcontractors or other logistical difficulties. Certain of our multi-year contracts also contain demanding 4 Table of Contents installation and maintenance requirements, in addition to other performance criteria relating to timing, unit cost requirements and compliance with government regulations, which, if not satisfied, could subject us to substantial contractual penalties, damages, non-payment and contract termination. There can be no assurance that all of our fixed-priced contracts can be completed profitably. For additional information, see Item 5: “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates.” We face operational risks in our value chain processes: Our value chain comprises all steps, from research and development, to production, marketing and sales up to services. Operational failures in our value chain processes could result in quality problems or potential product, labor safety, regulatory or environmental risks. Such risks are particularly present in relation to our production facilities, which are located all over the world and have a high degree of organizational and technological complexity. From time to time, some of the products we sell have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of such products, or from the software integrated into them. Such operational failures or quality issues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent upon the ability of third parties to deliver parts, components and services on time: We rely on third parties to supply us with parts, components and services. Using third parties to manufacture, assemble and test our products reduces our control over manufacturing yields, quality assurance, product delivery schedules and costs. The third parties that supply us with parts and components also have other customers and may not have sufficient capacity to meet all of their customers’ needs, including ours, during periods of excess demand. Component supply delays can affect the performance of certain of our operating Groups. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid supply-related problems, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter supply problems in the future or that we will be able to replace a supplier that is not able to meet our demand. This risk is particularly evident in businesses with a very limited number of suppliers. Shortages and delays could materially harm our business. Unanticipated increases in the price of components due to market shortages or other reasons could also adversely affect the performance of certain of our business Groups. We may be adversely affected by rising raw material prices: Our operating Groups are exposed to fluctuations in energy and raw material prices. In the recent past, oil, steel and copper prices in particular have increased on a worldwide basis. If we are not able to compensate for or pass on our increased costs to customers, such price increases could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We are exposed to currency risks and interest rate risks: We are particularly exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro, because a high percentage of our business volume is conducted in the U.S. and as exports from Europe. Certain currency risks—as well as interest rate risks—are hedged on a company-wide basis using derivative financial instruments. Depending on the development of foreign currency exchange rates, our hedging activities can have significant effects on our cash flow, particularly for our treasury activities (Corporate Treasury). Our Groups engage in currency hedging activities which sometimes do not qualify for hedge accounting. In addition, our Corporate Treasury has interest rate hedging activities which also do not qualify for hedge accounting, and are subject to changes in interest rates. Accordingly, exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations may influence our financial results and lead to earnings volatility. A strengthening of the euro particularly against the U.S. dollar may also change our competitive position, as many of our competitors may benefit from having a substantial portion of their costs based in weaker currencies, enabling them to offer their products at lower prices. For more details regarding currency risks, interest rate risks, hedging activities and other market risks, please see Item 11: “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” Our financing activities subject us to various risks including credit and interest rate risk: We provide to our customers various forms of direct and indirect financing in connection with large projects such as those undertaken by PG and TS. We finance a large number of smaller customer orders, for example the leasing of medical equipment, in part, through Siemens Financial Services (SFS). SFS also incurs credit risk by financing third-party equipment. We also sometimes take a security interest in the projects we finance. We may lose money if any of our customers are not able to pay us, if the value of the property that we have taken a security interest in declines, if interest rates or foreign exchange rates fluctuate, or if the projects in which we invest are 5 Table of Contents unsuccessful, and such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Downgrades of our ratings may increase our cost of capital and could negatively affect our businesses: Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are influenced significantly by the performance of the operating Groups, as well as the Company’s portfolio measures. A negative development may result in the deterioration of our credit rating. Downgrades by rating agencies may increase our cost of capital and could negatively affect our businesses. The funded status of our off-balance sheet pension benefit plans and its financial statement impact is dependent on several factors: The funded status of our pension plans may be affected by an increase or decrease of the projected benefit obligation (PBO) as well as by an increase or decrease in the valuation of plan assets. Pensions are accounted in accordance with actuarial valuations, which rely on statistical and other factors in order to anticipate future events. These factors include key pension plan valuation assumptions like the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases and pension progression. Assumptions may differ from actual developments due to changing market and economic conditions, thereby resulting in an increase or decrease of the PBO. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. Also, changes in pension plan assumptions can affect net periodic pension cost. For example, a change in discount rates or in the expected return on plan assets assumption may result in changes in the net periodic pension cost in the following financial year. For additional information, see Item 5: “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” We are dependent upon hiring and retaining highly qualified management and technical personnel: Competition for highly qualified management and technical personnel remains intense in the industries in which our business Groups operate. In many of our business areas, we further intend to extend our service businesses significantly, for which we will need highly skilled employees. Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate and retain engineers and other qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified employees in the future and any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations: Changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers and price or exchange controls could impact our sales and profitability and make the repatriation of profits difficult. In addition, the uncertainty of the legal environment in some regions could limit our ability to enforce our rights. We expect that sales to emerging markets will continue to be an increasing portion of total sales, as our business naturally evolves and as developing nations and regions around the world increase their demand for our offerings. Emerging market operations present several risks, including volatility in gross domestic product, civil disturbances, economic and governmental instability, the potential for nationalization of private assets, and the imposition of exchange controls. In particular, the Asian markets are important for our long-term growth strategy and our sizeable operations in China are influenced by a legal system that is still developing and is subject to change. The demand for many of the products of our business Groups, particularly those that derive their revenue from large projects, can be affected by expectations of future demand, prices and gross domestic product in the markets in which those Groups operate. If any of these risks or similar risks associated with our international operations were to materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to environmental and other government regulations: Some of the industries in which we operate in are highly regulated. Med, for example, is subject to the restrictive regulatory requirements of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Current and future environmental and other government regulations, or changes thereto, may result in significant increases in our operating or product costs. We could also face liability for damage or remediation for environmental contamination at the facilities we design or operate. See Item 4: “Information on the Company—Environmental Matters” for a discussion of significant environmental matters. We accrue for environmental risks when it is probable that an obligation has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. With regard to certain environmental risks, we maintain liability insurance at levels that our 6 Table of Contents management believes are appropriate and consistent with industry practice. We may incur environmental losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of such insurance and such losses may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations or financial condition and our provisions for environmental remediation may not be sufficient to cover the ultimate losses or expenditures. Changes in tax regulations could result in lower earnings and cash flows: We operate in approximately 190 countries and therefore are subject to different tax regulations. Changes in tax regulation could result in higher tax expenses and payments. Furthermore, changes in tax regulation could impact our tax liabilities as well as deferred tax assets. Prosecutorial investigations are being conducted in Germany and certain other European countries with respect to whether certain transactions and payments arranged by some current or former officials of our Com business Group violated applicable law. Other governmental authorities may also launch investigations. As a result of existing or future governmental investigations, or other alleged violations of law by Siemens or its current or former employees elsewhere, governmental authorities could take action against us or some of our employees, which may have a material adverse effect on the development of future business opportunities, our financial results, the price of our shares and ADSs and our reputation: On November 15, 2006, Munich public prosecutors conducted searches of Company premises and private homes in Munich, Erlangen and in Austria. These actions were taken in connection with an investigation of certain current and former employees of the Company on suspicion of embezzlement, bribery and tax evasion. For additional information, see Item 4: “Information on the Company— Legal Proceedings.” There may be, or could be in the future, investigations in other jurisdictions as a result of these matters. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice may launch investigations of possible violations of U.S. laws. Each of these governmental authorities may take action against us or some of our employees. These actions could include criminal and civil fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctions against future conduct, equitable remedies including profit disgorgement, disqualifications from engaging in certain types of business, or other restrictions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, share price and reputation. Tax authorities may impose certain remedies, including potential tax penalties. We may also be required to modify our business practices and compliance programs, and a monitor could be appointed to review future business and practices with the goal of ensuring compliance with applicable law. These investigations could harm relationships with existing customers, impair our ability to obtain new customers, business partners and public procurement contracts and affect our business plans, including alliances, joint ventures or other combinations. These investigations or potential investigations could result in the cancellation of certain of our existing contracts, including acquisition and disposition contracts and the commencement of significant third-party litigation. Depending on the development of these investigations, we may be required to accrue significant amounts, among others for penalties, damages or other possible actions that may be taken by various governmental authorities. We are cooperating with the Munich public prosecutor’s office in its investigations of these matters. At this point, these investigations are incomplete and, as a result, we cannot predict when they will be completed or what their outcome will be, including the potential effect that their results may have on our business. We cannot predict whether additional governmental authorities in these or other jurisdictions will launch separate investigations. In any event, any developments in these investigations, responding to the requests of governmental authorities and cooperating with their investigations will continue to divert our management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. More generally, we are engaged in a substantial amount of government contracting worldwide. Under applicable laws, determinations that our subsidiaries or we have engaged in illegal acts in a jurisdiction may impair our ability to participate in government contracting, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of September 30, 2006. As a result, our ability to report our results of operations accurately and in a timely manner, including our ability to make required filings with government authorities, may be adversely affected. In addition, the trading price of our shares and ADSs may be adversely affected by a related negative market reaction: We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Our management, including the CEO and CFO, have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of September 30, 2006 to achieve their intended objectives. Following the guidelines stipulated by the Public 7 Table of Contents Company Accounting Oversight Board, we have identified the following material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting: significant evidence of collusion at Com to misappropriate funds and abuse authority among certain members of senior management along with others who have responsibility for oversight of the financial reporting of this business Group. Such collusion has allowed elements of our financial control environment to be circumvented or overridden. For more information, see Item 15: “Controls and Procedures.” As of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F, the process of designing and implementing remedial measures related to the material weakness identified in fiscal 2006 is ongoing. Although we have identified a material weakness, we have not yet identified all of the areas in which the relevant controls were deficient, and as result have not been in a position to remediate them. If our efforts to remediate this material weakness are not successful, we may be unable to report our results of operations accurately and in a timely manner and make our required filings with government authorities, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. There is also a risk that there could be accounting errors in our financial reporting in addition to those disclosed in Note 2 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Furthermore, our business and operating results and the price of our shares and ADSs may be adversely affected by related negative market reactions. We cannot be certain that in the future additional material weaknesses will not exist or otherwise be discovered. Our business could suffer as a result of current or future litigation: We are subject to numerous risks relating to legal proceedings to which we are currently a party or that could develop in the future. In the ordinary course of our business, we become party to lawsuits, including suits involving allegations of improper delivery of goods or services, product liability, product defects, quality problems and intellectual property infringement. For additional information with respect to legal proceedings, see Item 4: “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings.” There can be no assurance that the results of these or other legal proceedings will not materially harm our business, reputation or brand. We maintain liability insurance for certain legal risks at levels our management believes are appropriate and consistent with industry practice. We accrue for litigation risks when it is probable that an obligation has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We may incur losses relating to litigation beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of such insurance and such losses may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations or financial condition and our provisions for litigation related losses may not be sufficient to cover our ultimate loss or expenditure. 