Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Discovery, Development and Commercialization of Drug Products Our ability to generate ongoing revenue from Exalgo sales depends on Covidien. We cannot assure you of the level of sales of Exalgo that Covidien will generate. Covidien has historically marketed generic drugs and Exalgo is one of the few branded drugs it markets. Covidien markets other opioids which may compete with Exalgo. We cannot control whether Covidien will devote sufficient resources to maximize sales of Exalgo and we have no control over the size of the sales force that it will assemble. Similarly, we also cannot control Covidien’s decisions regarding the commercialization of Exalgo, including the launch of Exalgo, subsequent strategic sales initiatives, any decision to scale back its sales initiatives or withdraw Exalgo from the market for any reason, including because Covidien wants to increase sales of a competitive product at Exalgo’s expense. If sales of Exalgo by Covidien are low, the royalties we expect to receive on sales of Exalgo will be low, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our royalty revenue from Covidien relating to the net sales of Exalgo could vary significantly in future periods and royalty revenue from Exalgo sales during quarterly periods may not be predictive of future royalty revenue to us from sales of Exalgo. Our revenue from net sales of Exalgo by Covidien may fluctuate from period to period due to: • the rate of market acceptance of Exalgo as a new therapy by physicians and payors; • fluctuations in future sales of Exalgo due to competition from other products, including other extended-release opioids; • reimbursement and pricing for Exalgo under commercial or government plans; • permitted deductions from gross sales of Exalgo relating to estimates of sales returns, credits and allowances, normal trade and cash discounts, managed care sales rebates and other allocated costs; • inventory levels of Exalgo with wholesalers not matching actual demand for Exalgo; • the duration of market exclusivity of Exalgo; • the timing of approvals, if any, for other competitive products or the future availability of generic versions of branded long-acting opioids; • manufacturing difficulties; or • other factors that affect the sales of a pharmaceutical product. All of these factors are outside our control, and any of these events may cause our revenues to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and in some cases may cause our operating results for a particular quarterly or annual period to vary in a material manner. Covidien may not be able to maintain or protect the proprietary rights necessary for the long-term commercialization of Exalgo, particularly given the Watson litigation described below, which could result in reduced royalty revenue to us from sales of Exalgo by Covidien. Covidien has obtained rights to a limited number of patents directed toward the OROS formulation of hydromorphone that is used in Exalgo. Third parties may seek to market generic versions of Exalgo by filing an ANDA with the FDA, in which they claim that patents protecting Exalgo that are held by Covidien and listed 28 with the FDA in the Orange Book, are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. This type of ANDA is referred to as a Paragraph IV filing. If an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application containing a Paragraph IV certification is submitted to the FDA and accepted as a reviewable filing by the agency, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant must then, within 20 days, provide notice to the NDA holder and patent owner stating that the application has been submitted and providing the factual and legal basis for the applicant’s opinion that the patent is invalid or not infringed. On October 29, 2010, Covidien received a Paragraph IV Certification Notice Letter from Watson Laboratories, Inc. – Florida, a subsidiary of Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., notifying them that it had submitted an ANDA to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of hydromorphone, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Exalgo, prior to the expiration of United States Patent No. 5,914,131, which expires on July 7, 2014, and is listed in the Orange Book. The notice letter further stated that Watson is asserting that claims in United States Patent No. 5,914,131 are not infringed and/or are invalid. On December 10, 2010, Covidien’s Mallinckrodt Inc. subsidiary filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Watson Laboratories, Inc.—Florida, Watson Pharma, Inc. and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., in response to the ANDA filing, which we refer to as the Watson litigation. The complaint, which was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, alleges infringement of the referenced patent. Under current United States law, the filing of the lawsuit automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA for 30 months from Covidien’s receipt of Watson’s Paragraph IV notification letter on October 29, 2010, or until April 29, 2013, unless the court enters judgment in favor of Watson in less than 30 months or finds that a party has failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the lawsuit. In the Watson litigation, the court may find the patents that are the subject of the notice letter invalid, not infringed and/or unenforceable. This could lead to the approval of a generic version of Exalgo prior to the expiration of the 5,914,131 patent on July 7, 2014, which could result in reduced sales of Exalgo and a reduction in the royalties payable to us by Covidien on sales of Exalgo. The conduct of the Watson litigation and any decisions regarding litigation strategy or potential settlement are in the complete control of Covidien, and Zalicus has no rights to participate in the Watson litigation or otherwise direct its prosecution or settlement. During the period in which the Watson litigation is pending, the uncertainty of its outcome may cause our stock price to decline. In addition, an adverse result in the Watson litigation, whether appealable or not, will likely cause our stock price to decline and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any final, unappealable, adverse result in the Watson litigation will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. Our ability to continue to generate significant royalty revenues from Exalgo is dependent upon Covidien’s ability to prevail in the Watson litigation or to otherwise resolve the Watson litigation on favorable terms. Zalicus’s approach to the discovery and development of drugs is unproven and may never lead to commercially viable products. Zalicus’s various approaches to drug discovery and development using our ion channel technology platform or our cHTS technology platform are complex and unproven. Previously unrecognized or unexpected defects in or limitations to Zalicus’s drug discovery technologies or drug development strategies may emerge, which we may also be unable to overcome or mitigate. None of the product candidates identified or developed to date, through the application of Zalicus’s business model and drug discovery technologies, has been approved by any regulatory agency for commercial sale or been commercialized. We have committed resources to the development of our ion channel drug discovery technology, and our future success depends in part on the successful development of this technology and product candidates identified by it. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs that modulate ion channels is limited, and many companies with more resources than us have not been able to successfully develop drugs that modulate ion channels. 29 Zalicus’s current business model also involves the ability of Zalicus’s proprietary high throughput discovery technology to identify additional promising product candidates. Combination high throughput screening involves testing large numbers of compounds in cell-based assays using automated systems that measure the biological activity of the compounds and provide detailed data regarding the results. Because Zalicus’s combination high throughput discovery technology is unproven in identifying drugs that can be approved, we cannot be certain that we will be able to discover additional drug combinations that show promising effects in Zalicus’s cell-based disease models and pre-clinical studies, which we can advance into clinical trials. As a result, we may not be able to identify additional product candidates. Many other companies with substantially greater resources than ours use high throughput screening for drug discovery. These or other companies may have developed or could in the future develop combination screening technology equal or superior to Zalicus’s technology. In addition, regulatory approval for a combination drug generally requires clinical trials to compare the activity of each component drug with the combination. As a result, it may be more difficult and costly to obtain regulatory approval of a combination drug than of a new drug containing only a single active pharmaceutical ingredient. In some instances, we may choose to advance product candidates where one or more of the compounds of the combination are not approved drugs, which may lead to longer clinical development timelines for these types of product candidates. For these and other reasons, Zalicus’s approach to drug discovery and development may not be successful and Zalicus’s current business model may not generate viable products or revenue. Even if Zalicus’s approach is theoretically viable, we may not complete the significant research and development or obtain the financial resources and personnel required to further develop and apply Zalicus’s discovery technology, advance promising product candidates to and through clinical trials, and obtain required regulatory approvals. Our results to date provide only a limited basis for predicting whether any of our product candidates will be safe or effective, or receive regulatory approval. All of our product candidates are in an early stage of development and their risk of failure is high. The data supporting Zalicus’s drug discovery and development programs is derived from either laboratory and pre-clinical studies and limited early stage clinical trials that were not all designed to be statistically significant or proof-of-concept or Phase 2 clinical trials, some of which are exploratory in nature. We cannot predict when or if any one of Zalicus’s product candidates will prove effective or safe in humans or will receive regulatory approval. If we are unable to discover or successfully develop drugs that are effective and safe in humans, we will not have a viable business. Exalgo is a member of a class of drugs that may cause undesirable side effects that could limit their marketability. Opioids, including hydromorphone, the active ingredient in Exalgo, are known to have serious side effects, including dependence and addiction. These or other undesirable side effects could negatively affect sales of Exalgo. In addition, if we or others later identify additional undesirable side effects caused by Exalgo, one or more of the following could occur: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a contraindication or a “black box” warning that the drug carries significant risks of serious or life-threatening adverse effects; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of Exalgo; • the FDA may require that the way Exalgo is administered be changed, that additional clinical trials be conducted or that the labeling of the product be changed; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent Exalgo from achieving or maintaining market acceptance or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing Exalgo, which in turn could decrease the royalties we expect to receive from sales of Exalgo. 30 Exalgo could be tampered with for the purpose of drug abuse. Misuse or abuse of Exalgo may result in adverse regulatory or other actions, including withdrawals of regulatory approvals and litigation. Misuse or abuse of drugs, including opioids such as hydromorphone, the active ingredient in Exalgo, could result in serious, even fatal, consequences. Abusers of pharmaceutical drugs may misuse or abuse Exalgo, to, among other things, accelerate the release of opioids. If effective methods to misuse or abuse Exalgo are employed, adverse action from regulatory authorities may result, including: • withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • delays or interruption in commercialization; • product recalls or seizures; • suspension of manufacturing; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing indications; • injunctions, suspensions, or revocations of marketing licenses; and • product liability or class action litigation. If any of these events were to occur, Covidien may not be able to continue to sell Exalgo. In these circumstances, we could suffer reduced revenues. Further, in response to these circumstances, regulatory authorities may impose new regulations concerning the manufacture and sale of drugs such as Exalgo. Such regulations may include new labeling requirements, additional risk management plan requirements to further minimize the risk of abuse, restrictions on the prescription and sale of Exalgo and mandatory reformulation of products in order to make abuse more difficult. Any such new regulations may be difficult and expensive for Covidien to comply with, may adversely affect Covidien’s sales and may have a material adverse effect on our business and cash flows. FDA approval of our drug candidates, subjects Zalicus and our collaborators to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, such as continued safety reporting requirements, and we and our collaborators may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations or new regulations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize our drug candidates or Covidien’s ability to commercialize Exalgo. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for our drug candidates, may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping for Exalgo, or any other drug candidate the FDA may approve, is subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, including but not limited to adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or the discovery that adverse events previously observed in pre-clinical research or clinical trials that were believed to be minor actually constitute much more serious problems, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the drug, and could include withdrawal of the drug from the market. The FDA’s policies may change, and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates or may adversely impact the commercialization of Exalgo. For example, the FDA has commenced the process of developing a common “Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy,” or REMS, for all opioid drugs. According to FDA’s announcement, opioid drugs affected by this announcement include both brand name and generic products that contain various drug components, including hydromorphone, the active ingredient in Exalgo. Exalgo is subject to its own unique REMS program, and may ultimately be subject to the common REMS program for approved opioid drugs. If we are not, or, in the case of Exalgo, Covidien is not, able to maintain regulatory compliance, including compliance with a required REMS program, we or Covidien may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product 31 recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Any of these events could prevent us from marketing our drug candidates or prevent Covidien from marketing Exalgo and our business could suffer accordingly. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. The approved drugs included in Zalicus’s combination product candidates, including Synavive, may have their own adverse or unacceptable side effects or may produce adverse or unacceptable side effects when delivered in combination, and we may not be able to achieve an acceptable level of side effect risks, compared to the potential therapeutic benefits, for Zalicus’s combination product candidates. The approved drugs included in Zalicus’s combination product candidates, including Synavive, have known adverse side effects. These side effects may be acceptable when an ingredient is used in its approved dosage to achieve a therapeutic benefit for its currently approved indications, but the side effect risk compared to the therapeutic benefit may not be acceptable when used for the intended indications for the product candidate. These side effects may also make it difficult to obtain regulatory or other approval to initiate clinical trials of Zalicus’s combination product candidates. In addition, the therapeutic effect of an approved drug in its currently approved indications may be inappropriate or undesirable in the intended indication for Zalicus’s combination product candidate. Also, Zalicus’s discovery technology is not designed to and does not detect adverse side effects that may result from the combination of the two drugs. The adverse side effects of an approved drug may be enhanced when it is combined with the other approved drug in the product candidate or other drugs patients are taking, or the combined drugs in a product candidate may produce additional side effects. Adverse side effects could, in any of these situations, require pre-clinical and Phase 1 studies testing for combination side effects or prevent successful development and commercialization of some or all of Zalicus’s combination product candidates, because the risks may outweigh the therapeutic benefit of the combination. The development of a product candidate could be adversely affected by safety or efficacy issues that subsequently arise or become the focus of increased attention or publicity regarding use of either of the approved drugs which comprise the product candidate or similar drugs. We could be forced to abandon a product candidate or an approved product due to adverse side effects from long-term or other use of one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in the product candidate or product, even if such long-term or other use is not contemplated for such product candidate or product. Zalicus’s combination product candidate Synavive, seeks to increase the therapeutic effect of a reduced-dose of the oral glucocorticoid prednisolone by the combination with dipyridamole that serves as an enhancer agent. The adverse side effects of prednisolone and dipyridamole are significant and generally increase as their dosage and/or duration of therapy increases. As a result, the success of Synavive depends upon the ability of an acceptable dose of dipyridamole to selectively amplify the therapeutic effect of a reduced-dose of prednisolone, without causing unacceptable expected or unexpected adverse side effects. As a result, Zalicus’s combination product candidates could have greater adverse side effects than anticipated and could fail to achieve risk-to-benefit profiles that would justify their continued development. Significant adverse side effects of the components of Synavive include, headache, nausea, dizziness, diarrhea, muscle and bone loss, diabetes, dyslipidemia, osteoporosis, fractures, weakness, adrenal suppression, infections, abdominal distress, peptic ulceration, arrhythmias, cataracts, glaucoma and myopathy. These side effects are not the only side effects of the components of Synavive. The occurrence of these or other significant adverse side effects could make it inadvisable to continue development of Synavive or lead to difficulty in obtaining regulatory or other approval for clinical trials of Synavive, the termination of clinical trials or could result in product liability claims. Synavive is a combination of approved drugs that are commercially available and marketed by other companies. As a result, Synavive, if approved, may be subject to substitution and competition. The approved drugs that are combined in Synavive are commercially available at prices lower than the prices at which we would seek to market Synavive, if it is approved. Even with its new formulation, we cannot be 32 sure that physicians will view Synavive, if approved, as sufficiently superior to a treatment regimen of the individual active pharmaceutical ingredients as to justify the significantly higher cost we expect to seek for Synavive, and they may prescribe the individual drugs already approved and marketed by other companies instead of Synavive. Even if we are issued patents covering the composition of matter, method of use or formulations of Synavive, those patents may be ineffective as a practical matter to protect against physicians prescribing the individual generic drugs instead of Synavive. To the extent that the price of Synavive is significantly higher than the prices of the individual components, physicians may have a greater incentive to write prescriptions for the individual components instead of for Synavive, and this may limit how we price Synavive. Similar concerns could also limit the reimbursement amounts private health insurers or government agencies in the United States are prepared to pay for Synavive, which could also limit market and patient acceptance of Synavive, and could negatively impact our revenues and net income, if any. Physicians might also prescribe the individual components of Synavive prior to its approval, which could adversely affect our development of Synavive due to our lack of control over the administration to patients of the combination of active pharmaceutical ingredients in Synavive, the occurrence of adverse effects, and other reasons. Such pre-approval use could also adversely affect our ability to market and commercialize Synavive if it is approved. In many jurisdictions where we plan to market Synavive, including Europe, Japan and Canada, the pricing of prescription drugs is controlled by the government or regulatory agencies. Regulatory agencies in these countries could determine that the pricing for Synavive should be based on prices for their active pharmaceutical ingredients when sold separately, rather than allowing us to market Synavive at a premium as a new drug. We may not be able to create commercially viable pharmaceutical formulations of Synavive or our ion channel product candidates. The success of Synavive will depend on our ability to develop a formulation that is superior to a treatment regimen of prednisolone and dipyridamole taken separately. We have developed or are developing proprietary formulations of Synavive. In addition, we have developed or will need to develop proprietary formulations of ion channel product candidates, including Z160. Developing such proprietary formulations is costly and difficult, and we have limited experience in developing formulations ourselves. We are relying on and expect to rely on third-party suppliers to develop the pharmaceutical formulations, delivery methods or packaging for Zalicus’s product candidates and they may not be successful in doing so or may experience delays in doing so that could delay clinical trials, and ultimately our ability to obtain approval of Zalicus’s product candidates, including Synavive. Defects in the formulation, delivery method or packaging of any of Zalicus’s product candidates could delay our ability to conduct clinical trials or require us to repeat clinical trials using a revised formulation, delivery method or packaging. If we are unsuccessful in creating commercially viable formulations, delivery methods or packaging, we may never generate product revenue or be profitable. We may not be able to initiate and complete clinical trials for our product candidates. Conducting clinical studies for any of our product candidates requires finding appropriate clinical sites and clinical investigators, securing approvals for such studies from the independent review board at each such site and local regulatory authorities and enrolling sufficient numbers of patients. We may not be able to arrange for appropriate clinical trials for our product candidates, secure the necessary approvals or enroll the necessary number of participants. Zalicus plans to initiate a Phase 2b clinical trial of Synavive in rheumatoid arthritis during 2011. In 2008, Zalicus terminated enrollment in a Phase 2b clinical trial of Synavive in rheumatoid arthritis due to delays in the enrollment associated with competing therapies otherwise available to the relevant patient population, enrollment criteria that required the discontinuance of glucocorticoid use by subjects and issues with third-party contract research organizations and third-party suppliers of clinical trial material. Zalicus cannot be certain that similar challenges will not arise with respect to the currently planned Phase 2b study of Synavive. In addition, we cannot guarantee that outside clinical investigators conducting clinical trials will conduct them in compliance with applicable United States or foreign regulations. Clinical sites may fail the FDA’s or other regulatory agencies’ inspections or reviews, and our trials could be halted for these or other 33 reasons. Zalicus plans to contract with third-party clinical research organizations and other parties to conduct virtually all aspects of Zalicus’s Phase 2b and other Phase 1 clinical trials for Zalicus’s product candidates. These organizations may not adequately or completely perform their contractual obligations regarding the trials, or may not diligently or completely perform their tasks with respect to clinical trials under their supervision. As a result of these risks, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, which could delay the receipt of clinical results for our product candidates, which could delay, impede or stop the development, regulatory approval or successful commercialization of our product candidates. We may be unable to find safe and effective doses or dose ratios for Zalicus’s product candidates without extensive clinical trials and substantial additional costs, if at all. We must select the doses, including the amount, frequency and duration, of each of the active pharmaceutical ingredients included in Zalicus’s product candidates, and the relative amounts, or dose ratios, of these doses, including the doses of prednisolone and dipyridamole contained in our product candidate Synavive. Our clinical trials in humans may show that the doses or dose ratios we select based on Zalicus’s in vitro screening, animal testing or early clinical trials do not achieve the desired therapeutic effect in humans, or achieve this effect only in a small part of the population. Even if the doses or dose ratios we select show efficacy in humans, the resulting doses or dose ratios of active pharmaceutical ingredients may not have acceptable safety profiles for targeted indications. Furthermore, even if we believe that pre-clinical and clinical studies adequately demonstrate that the doses or dose ratios we select for Zalicus’s product candidates are safe and effective in humans, the FDA or other regulatory agencies in foreign jurisdictions may conclude that the clinical trials do not support this conclusion. We may be required to conduct additional long-term clinical studies and provide more evidence substantiating the safety and effectiveness of the doses or selected dose ratios in a significant patient population. If we need to adjust the doses or dose ratios, we may need to conduct new clinical trials. We may also be required to make different doses or dose ratios available for different types of patients. All of this may result in significant delays and additional costs or prevent commercialization of Zalicus’s product candidates. We may fail to select or capitalize on the most scientifically, clinically or commercially promising or profitable product candidates. We may make incorrect determinations as to which product candidates should proceed to initial clinical trials, later stage clinical development and potential commercialization. Our decisions to allocate finite research, management and financial resources toward particular product candidates or therapeutic areas may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources from better opportunities. Similarly, our decisions to delay or terminate drug development programs may also be incorrect and could cause us to miss valuable opportunities. A material component of our business strategy is to establish and maintain collaborative relationships to fund research and possible development and commercialization of product candidates, by us or by our collaborators. If we or any collaborator terminates or fails to perform any obligations under our collaboration agreements, the development and commercialization of product candidates under these agreements could be delayed or terminated. A material component of our business strategy is to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to seek grants from agencies of the United States government, to fund research and possible development and commercialization of drug products for the treatment of diseases. We have established collaborative royalty and milestone-based agreements with Covidien for Exalgo and with Sanofi-Aventis/Fovea for Prednisporin and funded discovery research agreements with Novartis, USAMRIID and others, if any of our product candidates continue to advance through preclinical or clinical development, we intend to continue to seek collaborative relationships to obtain discovery or clinical development funding and expertise, as well as domestic or international sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. 34 The process of establishing collaborative relationships is difficult, time-consuming and involves significant uncertainty. Moreover, it may be difficult to maintain or perform under collaboration arrangements, as our funding resources may be limited or our collaborators may seek to renegotiate or terminate their relationships due to unsatisfactory research or clinical results, a change in business strategy, a change of control or other reasons. See “—Our ability to generate ongoing revenue from Exalgo depends on Covidien.” If we or any collaborator fails to fulfill any responsibilities in a timely manner, or at all, our research, clinical development or commercialization efforts related to that collaboration could be delayed or terminated. Additionally it may become necessary for us to assume responsibility for activities that would otherwise have been the responsibility of our collaborator. Further, if we are unable to establish and maintain collaborative relationships on acceptable terms, we may have to delay or discontinue further development of one or more of our product candidates, undertake development and commercialization activities at our own expense or find alternative sources of funding. Zalicus’s collaborations are generally new, and we have only a short history of working together with our collaborators and cannot predict the success of any of these collaborations. Our collaborations typically involve a complex allocation of responsibilities, costs and benefits and provide for milestone payments to us upon the achievement of specified clinical and regulatory milestones. Our collaborations also may provide us with royalty-based revenue if product candidates are successfully commercialized. Under the Covidien, Novartis, Sanofi-Aventis/Fovea and other collaborations, we will rely on our collaborators to provide resources to develop new product candidates and to potentially achieve these milestones and commercialize any new products. We may not be able to achieve any of the milestones provided in the Novartis, Sanofi-Aventis/Fovea or other collaboration agreements or derive any license or royalty revenue with respect to our collaborations. We have no sales or distribution capabilities and may not obtain the collaboration, development, commercialization, manufacturing or other third-party relationships required to develop, commercialize and manufacture some or all of our product candidates. We have no sales or distribution capabilities and lack many of the resources, capabilities and experience necessary to clinically develop, formulate, manufacture, test, market and sell pharmaceuticals. As a result, to succeed in our business plan, we will be dependent on the efforts of third parties. We depend on collaborators, licensees, clinical research organizations and other third parties to formulate product candidates and to conduct clinical trials for some or all of our product candidates. We also rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture all clinical trial supplies of our product candidates and they or we will rely on obtaining sufficient quantities of the approved drugs in Synavive from sources acceptable to the FDA and other regulators for early stage clinical trials. Our third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties performing their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable governmental regulations, including problems involving: inconsistent production yields; poor quality control and assurance or inadequate process controls; and lack of compliance with regulations set forth by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies. We typically engage only a single contract manufacturer to make any product candidate which can exacerbate the impact of any such difficulties. Under our agreements with Covidien, we have no responsibility for manufacturing Exalgo. However, any manufacturing difficulties or related regulatory issues could impact Covidien’s sales of Exalgo, if any, which would reduce the significant revenue we expect to receive from royalties on net sales of Exalgo. We expect to be able to develop and commercialize many of our product candidates only with the participation of pharmaceutical or biotechnology company collaborators or by out-licensing rights to the product candidates. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and others may be reluctant to collaborate with Zalicus or to license rights to Zalicus’s product candidates due to the unproven nature of Zalicus’s drug discovery and development approach, the fact that the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Synavive are approved generic drugs, the risk that healthcare providers may substitute the component active pharmaceutical ingredients for Synavive, concerns regarding the pricing of and reimbursement for Zalicus’s product candidates if they are successfully developed, or other factors. 35 We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully negotiate agreements for relationships with collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical investigators, manufacturers and other third parties on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain these agreements, we may not be able to clinically develop, formulate, manufacture, test, obtain regulatory approvals for or commercialize our product candidates. We expect to expend substantial funds and management time and effort to enter into relationships with these third parties and, if we enter successfully into such relationships, to manage these relationships. However, we cannot control the amount or timing of resources our contract partners will devote to our research and development programs, product candidates or potential product candidates, and we cannot guarantee that these parties will succeed in a timely fashion, if at all. Due to the recent volatility in the financial markets and tightening of the credit markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by third party providers which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to gain market acceptance of our product candidates, which would prevent us from becoming profitable. We cannot be certain that any of our product candidates, if approved, will gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors, pharmaceutical companies or others. Demonstrating the safety and efficacy of our product candidates and obtaining regulatory approvals will not guarantee future revenue. Sales of medical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. Governments and private insurers closely examine medical products to determine whether they should be covered by reimbursement and if so, the level of reimbursement that will apply. We cannot be certain that third-party payors will sufficiently reimburse sales of our products, or enable us to sell our products, if approved, at profitable prices. Sales of medical products also depend on physicians’ willingness to prescribe the treatment, which is likely to be based on a determination by these physicians that the products are safe, therapeutically effective and cost-effective. We cannot predict whether physicians, other healthcare providers, government agencies or private insurers will determine our products are safe, therapeutically effective and cost effective relative to competing treatments, including a treatment regimen of the individual approved drugs included in Zalicus’s combination products. Disputes under key agreements could delay or prevent development or commercialization of our product candidates. Any agreements we have or may enter into with third parties, such as collaboration, license, formulation supplier, manufacturing, testing, clinical research organization or clinical trial agreements, may give rise to disputes regarding the rights and obligations of the parties to such agreements. Disagreements could develop over rights to ownership or use of intellectual property, the scope and direction of research and development, the approach for regulatory approvals or commercialization strategy. We intend to conduct research programs in a range of therapeutic areas, but our pursuit of these opportunities could result in conflicts with the other parties to these agreements who may be developing or selling pharmaceuticals or conducting other activities in these same therapeutic areas. Any disputes or commercial conflicts could lead to the termination of these agreements, delay progress of our product development programs, compromise our ability to renew agreements or obtain future agreements, lead to the loss of intellectual property rights or result in costly litigation. Risks Related to Financial Results and Need for Additional Financing We may be unable to raise the substantial additional capital that it will need to sustain our operations. We will need substantial additional funds to support our planned operations. Based on current operating plans, we expect our resources to be sufficient to fund our operations into 2014. We may, however, need to raise additional funds before that time if our research and development expenses exceed current expectations or our collaboration funding and Exalgo royalties are less than current assumptions or expectations. This could occur for many reasons, including: • we determine to acquire or license rights to additional product candidates or new technologies; 36 • some or all of our product candidates fail in clinical or pre-clinical studies or prove to be less commercially promising than we expect or we are forced to seek additional product candidates; • our product candidates require more extensive clinical or pre-clinical testing or clinical trials take longer to complete than we currently expect; • we advance more of our product candidates than expected into costly later stage clinical trials; • we advance more of our pre-clinical product candidates than expected into early stage clinical trials; • our revenue generating collaboration agreements are terminated; • we determine or are required to conduct more discovery research than expected to develop additional product candidates; • we are required, or consider it advisable, to acquire or license rights from one or more third parties. While we expect to seek additional funding through public or private financings, we may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of any financings may be dilutive to, or otherwise adversely affect, holders of Zalicus common stock. We may also seek additional funds through arrangements with collaborators or others. These arrangements would generally require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products, and we may not be able to enter into such agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. The arrangements also may include issuances of equity, which may also be dilutive to, or otherwise adversely affect, holders of Zalicus common stock. Many people believe that participants in financial markets in the United States are increasingly less willing to fund drug discovery companies like Zalicus. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access equity or credit markets in order to finance our operations or expand development programs for any of our product candidates, or that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in economies. We may also have to scale back or further restructure our operations. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, we may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of our research or development programs. Zalicus has a history of operating losses. We expect to incur significant operating losses and may never be profitable. Zalicus common stock is a highly speculative investment. Zalicus commenced operations in March 2000 and has no approved products of its own and has generated no direct product revenue. Zalicus has incurred operating losses since Zalicus’s inception in 2000. As of December 31, 2010, Zalicus had an accumulated deficit of $254.7 million. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant resources to fund research and development of our product candidates and to enhance our drug discovery technologies. We expect to incur substantial operating losses over the next several years due to our ongoing research, development, pre-clinical testing, and potential clinical trial activities. As a result, our accumulated deficit will continue to increase. Our product candidates are in the early stages of development and may never result in any revenue. We will not be able to generate product revenue unless and until one of our product candidates successfully completes clinical trials and receives regulatory approval. We may seek to obtain revenue from collaboration or licensing agreements with third parties. Other than our agreement with Covidien, our current collaboration and license agreements may not provide us with material, sustainable ongoing future revenue, and we may not be able to enter into additional collaboration agreements. Even if we eventually generate product revenues, we may never be profitable, and if we ever achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it. Risks Related to Regulatory Approvals The regulatory approval process is costly and lengthy and we may not be able to successfully obtain all required regulatory approvals. The pre-clinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing, testing and labeling of pharmaceuticals and medical devices are all subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities and agencies in 37 the United States and other countries. We or our collaborators must obtain regulatory approval for product candidates before marketing or selling any of them. The approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. It is not possible to predict how long the approval processes of the FDA or any other applicable federal or foreign regulatory authority or agency for any of our products will take or whether any such approvals ultimately will be granted. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the drug and medical device approval process, and positive results in pre-clinical testing or early phases of clinical studies offer no assurance of success in later phases of the approval process. Generally, pre-clinical and clinical testing of products and medical devices can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, approvals could prevent or adversely affect the marketing of our products or our collaborator’s products and our ability to generate product revenue. The risks associated with the approval process include delays or rejections in the regulatory approval process based on the failure of clinical or other data to meet expectations, or the failure of the product or medical device to meet a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy and quality. In addition, regulatory approval, if obtained, may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. We or our collaborators may delay, suspend or terminate clinical trials to obtain marketing authorization of any of our product candidates or their associated medical devices or products at any time for reasons including: • ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of clinical trials; • delays or the inability to obtain required approvals from institutional review boards or other governing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling patients and volunteers into clinical trials; • lower than anticipated retention rates of patients and volunteers in clinical trials; • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive or negative results or poorly executed testing; • lack of effectiveness of a product candidate in other clinical trials; • lack of sufficient funds for further clinical development; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidate materials or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials; • unfavorable regulatory inspection of a manufacturing, testing, labeling or packaging facility for drug substance or drug product; • unfavorable regulatory inspection and review of a clinical or pre-clinical trial site or records of any clinical or pre-clinical investigation; • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects or serious adverse safety events experienced by participants in clinical trials or by patients following commercialization; or • the placement of a clinical hold on a product candidate in an ongoing clinical trial. Positive or timely results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure positive or timely results in late stage clinical trials or product approval by the FDA or any other regulatory authority. Product candidates that show positive pre-clinical or early clinical results often fail in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities is susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approvals. We may not be able to conduct clinical trials at preferred sites, enlist clinical investigators, enroll sufficient numbers of patients, or begin or successfully complete clinical trials in a timely fashion, if at all. Any failure to 38 perform may delay or terminate the trials. Our current clinical trials may be insufficient to demonstrate that our potential products are active, safe, or effective and as a result we may decide to abandon further development of such product candidates. Additional clinical trials may be required if clinical trial results are negative or inconclusive, which will require us to incur additional costs and significant delays. If we do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we will not be able to generate product revenues and will not become profitable. We may encounter significant delays in the regulatory process that could result in excessive costs that may prevent us from continuing to develop our product candidates. In addition, the failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, product recalls, withdrawal of product approval, mandatory restrictions or other actions that could impair our ability to conduct our business. The FDA and other regulatory agencies may require more extensive or expensive trials for Synavive than may be required for single agent pharmaceuticals. To obtain regulatory approval for Synavive, we expect to be required to show that each active pharmaceutical ingredient in Synavive makes a contribution to the combined product candidate’s claimed effects and that the dosage of each component, including amount, frequency and duration, is such that the combination is safe and effective for a significant patient population requiring such concurrent therapy. As a result, we are typically required to conduct clinical trials comparing each component drug with the combination. This could require us to conduct more extensive and more expensive clinical trials with Synavive than would be the case for many single agent pharmaceuticals. The need to conduct such trials could make it more difficult and costly to obtain regulatory approval of Synavive compared to a new drug containing only a single active pharmaceutical ingredient. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for marketing Zalicus’s product candidates, if we fail to comply with continuing regulatory requirements, we could lose regulatory approvals, and our business would be adversely affected. The FDA and other regulatory authorities continue to review therapeutic products and medical devices even after they receive initial approval. If we receive approval to commercialize any product candidates, the manufacturing, testing, marketing, sale and distribution of these drugs and medical devices will be subject to continuing regulation, including compliance with quality systems regulations, good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting requirements and prohibitions on promoting a product for unapproved uses. Furthermore, heightened Congressional scrutiny on the adequacy of the FDA’s drug approval process and the agency’s efforts to assure the safety of marketed drugs has resulted in the enactment of legislation, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007, addressing, among other things, drug safety issues. This law provides the FDA with expanded authority over drug products after approval, including the authority to require post-approval studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with REMS approved by the FDA. The FDA’s exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product candidate development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, increased costs to assure compliance with new post-approval regulatory requirements, and potential restrictions on the sale of approved products, which could lead to lower product revenues to us or our collaborators. Enforcement actions resulting from failure to comply with government requirements could result in fines, suspension of approvals, withdrawal of approvals, recalls of products, product seizures, operating restrictions, and civil or criminal penalties. These enforcement actions could affect the manufacturing, testing, marketing, sale and distribution of our products. Legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system in the United States and foreign jurisdictions may affect our ability to profitably sell our products, if approved. Our and our collaborators’ ability to commercialize our future products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for our products which we believe are fair, and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability. 39 Specifically, in both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Congress has passed America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009 and is considering a number of proposals that are intended to reduce or limit the growth of health care costs and which could significantly transform the market for pharmaceuticals products. We expect further federal and state proposals and health care reforms to continue to be proposed by legislators, which could limit the prices that can be charged for the products we develop and may limit our commercial opportunity. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, also called the Medicare Modernization Act, or MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for drugs. In addition, this legislation provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. As a result of this legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The continuing efforts of government and other third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may limit our commercial opportunity. It will be time consuming and expensive for us or our partners to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicare and private payors. Our products, including Exalgo, may not be considered cost effective, and government and third-party private health insurance coverage and reimbursement may not be available to patients for any of our future products or sufficient to allow us or our collaborators, including Covidien, to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by the MMA and additional prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of this legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we or any potential collaborators could receive for any of our future products and could adversely affect our profitability. In some foreign countries, including major markets in the European Union and Japan, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take 6 to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we or our collaborators may be required to conduct a clinical study that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidates to other available therapies. Such pharmacoeconomic studies can be costly and the results uncertain. Our business could be harmed if reimbursement of our or our collaborators’ products are unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels. Federal laws or regulations on drug importation could make lower cost versions of our future products available, which could adversely affect our revenues, if any. The prices of some drugs are lower in other countries than in the United States because of government regulation and market conditions. Under current law, importation of drugs into the United States is generally not permitted unless the drugs are approved in the United States and the entity that holds that approval consents to the importation. Various proposals have been advanced to permit the importation of drugs from other countries to provide lower cost alternatives to the products available in the United States. In addition, the MMA requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promulgate regulations for drug reimportation from Canada into the United States under some circumstances, including when the drugs are sold at a lower price in Canada than in the United States. 40 If the laws or regulations are changed to permit the importation of drugs into the United States in circumstances not now permitted, such a change could have an adverse effect on our business by making available lower priced alternatives to our future products. Failure to obtain regulatory and pricing approvals in foreign jurisdictions could delay or prevent commercialization of our products abroad. If we succeed in developing any products (other than Exalgo), we intend to market them in the European Union and other foreign jurisdictions. In order to do so, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval abroad may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval and additional risks particularly because there may be additional variations between how our combination products, including Synavive, and single agent drugs are treated in foreign jurisdictions. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We and our collaborators may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market outside the United States. The failure to obtain these approvals could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are successful at obtaining these approvals, regulatory agencies in foreign countries where the pricing of prescription drugs or medical devices is controlled by the government, could determine that pricing for Zalicus’s combination products should be based on prices for the existing drugs that comprise the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Zalicus’s combination products instead of allowing us to price Zalicus’s combination products at a premium as novel medicines. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our success depends upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our products and technologies. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property, including our proprietary drug discovery technologies and any products or product candidates we plan to develop. We intend to apply for patents with claims covering our technologies, processes, products and product candidates when and where we deem it appropriate to do so and plan to take other steps to protect our intellectual property. We have applied for patent protection covering our clinical and pre-clinical product candidates in the United States, and some, but not all, foreign countries. In countries where we have not and do not seek patent protection, third parties may be able to manufacture and sell our products without our permission, and we may be unable to stop them from doing so. The patents covering Exalgo expire in July 2014, or they may be successfully challenged prior to expiration, after which Covidien may face generic competition for the specific formulation of Exalgo. One patent covering Exalgo is the subject of ongoing patent litigation with Watson Pharmaceuticals. Similar to other biotechnology companies, our patent position is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and other biotechnology companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending their proprietary rights in non-US jurisdictions. Whether filed in the United States or abroad, our patent applications may be challenged or may fail to result in issued patents. In addition, our existing patents and any future patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing or commercializing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop or commercialize similar or alternative technologies or drugs, or design around our patents. Our patents may be challenged, invalidated or fail to provide any competitive advantages. The United States Patent and Trademark Office and similar agencies in foreign jurisdictions may not agree with our view that our combination product candidates are patentable or novel and non-obvious, and on this basis 41 may deny patent protection. Even if we receive patent protection, others, including those who own patent or trade secret rights associated with the approved drugs that are active pharmaceutical ingredients of these product candidates, may attempt to invalidate our patent or trade secret rights. Even if our patent or trade secret rights are not directly challenged, disputes among third parties could lead to the weakening or invalidation of intellectual property rights. If we do not obtain or are unable to maintain adequate patent or trade secret protection for products in the United States, competitors could duplicate them without repeating the extensive testing that we will be required to undertake to obtain approval of the products by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Regardless of any patent protection, under the current statutory framework the FDA is prohibited by law from approving any generic version of any of Zalicus’s combination products for three years after it has approved Zalicus’s combination product and for five years in the case of other product candidates. Upon the expiration of that period, or if that time period is altered, the FDA could approve a generic version of Zalicus’s product unless we have patent protection sufficient to enforce our rights. Without sufficient patent protection, the applicant for a generic version of Zalicus’s product would be required only to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that its product is bioequivalent to Zalicus’s product and would not have to repeat the studies that we conducted to demonstrate that the product is safe and effective. In the absence of adequate patent protection in other countries, competitors may similarly be able to obtain regulatory approval of products that duplicate Zalicus’s products. We may not be able to develop or commercialize our product candidates due to intellectual property rights held by third parties. If a third party holds a patent to a composition or method of use of an approved drug that is a component of one or more of Zalicus’s combination product candidates or a formulation technology related to Zalicus’s planned formulation of a combination product candidate, we may not be able to develop or commercialize such product candidates without first obtaining a license to such patent, or waiting for the patent to expire. Our business will be harmed if we are unable to use the optimal formulation or methods of use of the component drugs that comprise our product candidates. This may occur because the formulations or methods of use are covered by one or more third-party patents, and a license to such patents is unavailable or is available on terms that are unacceptable. We may be unable to in-license intellectual property rights or technology necessary to develop and commercialize Zalicus’s products. Depending on its ultimate formulation and method of use, before we can develop, make, use, or sell a particular product candidate, we may need to obtain a license from one or more third parties who have patent or other intellectual property rights covering components of Zalicus’s product candidate or its method of use. There can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Because Zalicus’s combination product candidates are based on combinations of existing drugs, there may be a significant number of patents covering both the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Zalicus’s combination product candidates and their method of use. If a third party does not offer us a necessary license or offers a license only on terms that are unattractive or unacceptable, we might be unable to develop and commercialize one or more of Zalicus’s combination product candidates. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In our activities, we rely substantially upon proprietary materials, information, trade secrets and know-how to conduct our research and development activities, and to attract and retain collaborators, licensees and customers. We take steps to protect our proprietary rights and information, including the use of confidentiality and other agreements with our employees and consultants and in our academic and commercial relationships. 42 However, these steps may be inadequate, agreements may be violated, or there may be no adequate remedy available for a violation of an agreement. Our proprietary information may be inadvertently disclosed or we may lose the protection of our trade secrets. Our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require substantial time and money to resolve. Unfavorable outcomes in these proceedings could limit our intellectual property rights and our activities. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, including any patents issued to us. If a competitor or collaborator files a patent application claiming technology also invented by us, in order to protect our rights, we may have to participate in an expensive and time consuming interference proceeding before the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We cannot guarantee that our product candidates will be free of claims by third parties alleging that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technologies without authorization and they may resort to litigation to attempt to enforce their rights. Third parties may have or obtain patents in the future and claim that the use of our technology or any of our product candidates infringes their patents. We may not be able to develop or commercialize product candidates because of patent protection others have. Our business will be harmed if we cannot obtain a necessary or desirable license, can obtain such a license only on terms we consider to be unattractive or unacceptable, or if we are unable to redesign our product candidates or processes to avoid actual or potential patent or other intellectual property infringement. Our efforts to obtain, protect and defend our patent and other intellectual property rights, whether we are successful or not, may require us to incur substantial costs, including the diversion of management and technical personnel. An unfavorable ruling in patent or intellectual property litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to cease developing, manufacturing or selling the affected products or using the affected processes, require us to license the disputed rights from third parties, or result in awards of substantial damages against us. In addition, defending patent or other intellectual property litigation, whether we are successful or not, can be very expensive and may require us to incur substantial costs, including the diversion of management and technical personnel. During the course of any patent litigation, there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors regard these announcements as negative, the market price of Zalicus common stock may decline. General proclamations or statements by key public figures may also have a negative impact on the perceived value of our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any intellectual property infringement action, will be able to obtain a license to any third-party intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, successfully develop non-infringing alternatives on a timely basis, or license non-infringing alternatives, if any exist, on commercially reasonable terms. Any significant intellectual property impediment to our ability to develop and commercialize our products could seriously harm our business and prospects. Risks Related to the Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Industry Our industry is highly competitive and our competitors and potential competitors may develop products and technologies that make ours less attractive or obsolete. The development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products is highly competitive. Many companies, universities, and research organizations developing competing product candidates have greater resources and significantly greater experience in research and development, manufacturing, marketing, sales, distribution, financial and technical regulatory matters than we have. In addition, many competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive collaborative relationships. Our competitors could commence and 43 complete clinical testing of their product candidates, obtain regulatory approvals, and begin commercial-scale manufacturing of their products faster than we are able to for our products. They could develop drug discovery technology or products that would render Zalicus’s drug discovery technologies and our product candidates, and those of our collaborators, obsolete and noncompetitive. Our competitors already have high throughput screening technologies and if they employ these technologies to discover combination drugs, they may render Zalicus’s technologies or Zalicus’s approach to combination drug discovery and development obsolete or noncompetitive. Even when we successfully identify a new combination product candidate, our ability to commercialize any combination product candidate may be limited to the extent that we are unable to obtain patent protection for such a product candidate or patent or trade secret protection for its newly identified formulation. Our competitors may also be able to use similar component drugs or different combinations of component drugs to develop combination products that are not covered by our patents. Our competitors’ ability to market competitive drugs would adversely impact our ability to generate revenues. In addition, the approved drugs that are combined to produce our combination product candidates are likely to be commercially available at lower prices, so physicians may be able to prescribe the individual drugs already approved and marketed by other companies instead of prescribing our combination products. This practice could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues and would be difficult or impossible for us to prevent by enforcing our combination patents, if obtained. Zalicus’s drug discovery technologies compete against well-established techniques to discover new drugs. If we are unable to compete effectively against these existing techniques and the companies that support them, then we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates or achieve a competitive position in the market. In addition, any product candidates that we do discover will face competition from existing pharmaceuticals. Our competitors’ success is discovering new drugs and marketing existing drugs which compete with our product candidates would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. We may have significant product liability exposure which may harm our business and our reputation. We face exposure to product liability and other claims if our product candidates, products or processes are alleged to have caused harm. These risks are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, and marketing of human therapeutic products and medical devices. We maintain product liability insurance covering our clinical trials of our product candidates. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost, if at all. Our inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of any products or product candidates that we develop. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, product candidates or processes, our liability could exceed our product liability insurance coverage and our total assets. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also divert significant management time and resources, generate negative publicity or hurt our ability to obtain physician endorsement of our products or expand our business. We use and generate materials that may expose us to expensive and time-consuming legal claims. Our development programs involve the use of hazardous materials, chemicals, and biological materials. We are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, and disposal of materials and waste products. We believe that our safety procedures for handling these materials comply with the standards prescribed by laws and regulations. However, we may incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from hazardous materials. In the event of an accident, an injured party may seek to hold us liable for any damages that result. Any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance, and we may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. 44 Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Future sales of common stock by former Neuromed stockholders may cause the price of Zalicus common stock to fall. After the FDA approved Exalgo, shares issued in connection with the Neuromed Merger were released from an escrow arrangement such that pre-merger Zalicus stockholders only owned approximately 40% of the then outstanding shares of Zalicus common stock. Before this merger, the former Neuromed stockholders held shares of a private company that were difficult to sell. If the former Neuromed stockholders seek to sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market to monetize their merger proceeds, particularly if these sales are in a rapid or disorderly manner, or investors perceive that these sales could occur, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at an appropriate time and price. Our common stock has a volatile public trading price. The market price for our common stock has been volatile, and market prices for securities of companies comparable to us have been highly volatile. In addition, the stock market as a whole and biotechnology and other life science stocks in particular have experienced significant recent price declines and volatility. Like our common stock, these stocks have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the individual companies. Factors giving rise to this volatility may include: • disclosure of the sales performance of Exalgo by Covidien, or matters related to the Watson litigation; • disclosure by our collaboration partners, including Sanofi-Aventis/Fovea and Novartis regarding our collaborations and the related product candidates, including Prednisporin; • disclosure of actual or potential preclinical or clinical results with respect to product candidates we are developing; • regulatory developments in both the United States and abroad; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; • public concern about the safety or efficacy of our product candidates or technology, their components, or related technology or new technologies generally; • public announcements by our competitors or others regarding new products or new product candidates; and • general market conditions and comments by securities analysts and investors. Fluctuations in our operating losses could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our operating losses may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. Some of the factors that may cause our operating losses to fluctuate on a period-to-period basis include royalties from sales of Exalgo, the status of our clinical and pre-clinical development programs, level of expenses incurred in connection with our clinical and pre-clinical development programs, restructuring costs, implementation or termination of collaboration, licensing, manufacturing or other material agreements with third parties, non-recurring revenue or expenses under any such agreement, and compliance with regulatory requirements. Period-to-period comparisons of our historical and future financial results may not be meaningful, and investors should not rely on them as an indication of future performance. Our fluctuating losses may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our failure to meet these expectations may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and provisions of Delaware law may make an acquisition more difficult and could result in the entrenchment of management. We are incorporated in Delaware. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make a change in control or efforts to remove management more difficult. Also, under Delaware law, our board 45 of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures. The existence of the following provisions of Delaware law and our sixth amended and restated charter, as amended, or our amended and restated bylaws could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. If the board of directors exercises this power to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock and vote the stock they acquire to remove management or directors. Our charter also provides staggered terms for the members of our board of directors. Under Section 141 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our charter, our directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause and only by vote of the holders of 75% of voting shares then outstanding. These provisions may prevent stockholders from replacing the entire board in a single proxy contest, making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions could also delay the removal of management by the board of directors with or without cause. In addition our amended and restated bylaws limit the ability our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. Our equity incentive plans generally permit our board of directors to provide for acceleration of vesting of options granted under these plans in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. If our board of directors uses its authority to accelerate vesting of options, this action could make an acquisition more costly, and it could prevent an acquisition from going forward. Under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction in advance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 