ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following Risk Factors and all other information in this Report. These Risk Factors are not the only ones facing us. Our operations could also be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Risks Related to Our Business Generally The recent global economic downturn has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Global economies experienced a downturn that began in the housing market in the United States. The collateral effects on liquidity in the global banking system, along with volatile energy and commodity prices, and decreased consumer confidence combined to significantly slow global trade. These conditions made it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. The slowdown caused our customers to curb their use of our services. We cannot predict the effect or duration of any economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery. If demand for our services significantly deteriorates due to macroeconomic effects, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Demand for older 747-200 aircraft may affect our decision to retire aircraft early or affect the volatility of aircraft values. The market for 747-200 aircraft is volatile and can be negatively affected by excess capacity due to factors such as global economic conditions and reduced customer demand. In 2009 and 2008, we accelerated the scheduled retirements of some of our 747-200 aircraft due to a lack of projected demand. We incurred certain expenses related to the retirement of these aircraft (see Note 5 to our Financial Statements). If the operating environment for 747-200s continues to deteriorate, we may need to retire some or all of our remaining 747-200 aircraft, which would result in additional expenses being recorded. Should any of our existing aircraft or our new order of 747-8F aircraft become underutilized, failure to re-deploy these aircraft at favorable rates or to successfully and timely dispose of such aircraft could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We provisionally allocate our existing and on-order aircraft among our business segments according to projected demand. If demand weakens and, as a result, we have underutilized aircraft, we will seek to re- 13 Table of Contents deploy these aircraft in our other lines of business. If we are unable to successfully deploy our existing aircraft or our new order of 747-8F aircraft, when delivered, at favorable rates or achieve a successful and timely disposal of such aircraft, our long-term results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The recent global economic downturn could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to access capital markets. Financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruptions, including, among other things, volatility in security prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades on certain investments and declining valuations of others. Ours is a capital intensive business that depends for its growth on the availability of capital for new aircraft. If today’s limited capital availability continues or intensifies, we may be unable to raise the outside capital we will need to pay for the 747-8F aircraft we have ordered from Boeing. In addition to the impact that the recent global economic downturn has already had on us, we may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve or if they worsen. For example, a further extension of the credit crisis to other industries could adversely impact overall demand, particularly freight demand, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. We have significant contractual obligations, including progress payments, associated with our order of 12 747-8F aircraft. If we are unable to obtain financing for these aircraft and/or make the required progress payments, our growth strategy would be disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In September 2006, we placed an order for 12 new 747-8F aircraft. As part of this transaction, we also hold rights to purchase up to an additional 14 747-8F aircraft. We are required to pay significant pre-delivery deposits (“PDP”) to Boeing for these aircraft. As of December 31, 2009, we had remaining commitments of approximately $1.8 billion associated with this aircraft order (including spare engines, estimated contractual escalations and applying purchase credits). We expect to finance these aircraft through either mortgage debt or lease financing. Although we have received standby financing commitments to finance four of these aircraft, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to meet the financing conditions contained in these commitments or to secure other financing on terms attractive to us or at all. If we are unable to secure financing on acceptable terms, including financing of our progress payments, we may be required to incur financing costs that are substantially higher than what we currently anticipate and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain financing (even at a higher cost) and we are unable to meet our contractual obligations to Boeing, our financial condition could be impacted as we could be in default under the Boeing contract. Our financial condition may suffer if we experience unanticipated costs or enforcement action as a result of the ongoing Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice fuel surcharge investigation and other lawsuits and claims. On February 14, 2006, the Antitrust Division initiated a criminal investigation into the pricing practices of a number of cargo carriers, including Polar LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The Antitrust Division is investigating whether, during any part of January 2000 to February 2006, cargo carriers manipulated the market price for air cargo services sold in the U.S. and abroad, through the use of fuel surcharges or other pricing practices, in violation of the U.S. federal antitrust laws. Polar LLC’s counsel has been meeting periodically with the Antitrust Division staff. On April 28, 2009, Polar received a letter from the Antitrust Division staff informing it that it is a target of a grand jury investigation in the Northern District of Georgia in connection with the above referenced matters. This means that the Antitrust Division may ask the grand jury to indict Polar at some future time. While the letter was addressed to Polar, we believe it is more properly directed at Polar LLC, because, among other things, Polar was not an operating company during any of the periods subject to the investigation. The staff of the Antitrust Division has, however, to date declined to 14 Table of Contents change the name of the target. As a result of the investigation, the Company and Polar LLC, along with a number of other cargo carriers, have been named co-defendants in a number of class action suits filed in multiple jurisdictions of the U.S. Federal District Court, and have been named in two civil class action suits in the provinces of Ontario and Quebec, Canada, which are substantially similar to the U.S. class action suits. Moreover, we have submitted relevant information and documentation to regulators in Australia, the EU, Korea, New Zealand and Switzerland in connection with investigations initiated by such authorities into pricing practices of certain international air cargo carriers. These investigations and proceedings are continuing, and additional investigations and proceedings may be commenced and charges may be brought in these and other jurisdictions. Other parties may be added to these investigations and proceedings, and authorities may request additional information from the Company. If Polar LLC is unable to resolve the Antitrust Division investigation or is formally charged by the Antitrust Division as a result of this investigation, or if the Company were to incur an unfavorable outcome in connection with one or more of the related investigations or litigation, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also party to a number of other claims, lawsuits and pending actions, which we consider to be routine and incidental to our business (see Note 14 to our Financial Statements). However, if we were to receive an adverse ruling or enforcement action, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While our revenues may vary significantly over time, a substantial portion of our operating expenses are fixed. These fixed costs may limit our ability to quickly change our cost structure to respond to any declines in our revenues, which could reduce our profitability. To maintain our level of operations, a substantial portion of our costs, such as aircraft ownership, crew, maintenance and facility costs, are fixed. Operating revenues from our business are directly affected by our ability to maintain high utilization of our aircraft and services at favorable rates. The utilization of our aircraft and our ability to obtain favorable rates are affected by many factors, including global demand for airfreight, global economic conditions, fuel costs and the deployment by our current and potential customers of their own aircraft, among others, which may cause our revenues to vary significantly over time. If our revenues for a particular period fall below expectations, we may be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that period. Any revenue shortfall during a quarterly or annual period may cause our profitability for that period to fall. We have a limited number of revenue producing assets. The loss of one or more of our aircraft for an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating revenues depend on our ability to effectively deploy all of the aircraft in our fleet and maintain high utilization of these aircraft at favorable rates. In the event that one or more of our aircraft are out of service for an extended period of time, our operating revenues would significantly decrease and we may have difficulty fulfilling our obligations under one or more of our existing contracts. The loss of revenue resulting from any such business interruption, and the cost, long lead time and difficulties in sourcing a replacement aircraft, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our substantial lease and debt obligations, including aircraft lease and other obligations, could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or capital requirements, all of which could limit our financial resources and ability to compete, and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic events. As of December 31, 2009, we had total debt obligations of approximately $627.3 million and total aircraft operating leases and other lease obligations of $1.9 billion. These obligations are expected to increase significantly over the next several years as we begin to accept delivery of, and enter into financing arrangements for, our new 747-8F aircraft. Our outstanding financial obligations could have negative consequences, including: • making it more difficult to pay principal and interest with respect to our debt and lease obligations; 15 Table of Contents • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for interest, principal and lease payments and reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital and other general corporate requirements; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in business and in our industry. Our ability to service our debt and meet our lease and other obligations as they come due is dependent on our future financial and operating performance. This performance is subject to various factors, including factors beyond our control, such as changes in global and regional economic conditions, changes in our industry, changes in interest or currency exchange rates, the price and availability of aviation fuel and other costs, including labor and insurance. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service, lease and other obligations as they become due and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected under these circumstances. Certain of our debt obligations contain a number of restrictive covenants. In addition, many of our debt and lease obligations have cross default and cross acceleration provisions. Restrictive covenants in certain of our debt and lease obligations, under certain circumstances, could impact our ability to: • pay dividends or repurchase stock; • consolidate or merge with or into other companies or sell substantially all of our assets; • expand significantly into lines of businesses beyond existing business activities or those which are cargo-related and/or aviation-related and similar businesses; and/or • modify the terms of debt or lease financing arrangements. In certain circumstances, a covenant default under one of our debt instruments could cause us to be in default of other obligations as well. Any unremedied defaults could lead to an acceleration of the amounts owed and potentially could cause us to lose possession or control of certain aircraft. Global trade flows are typically seasonal, and our business segments, including our ACMI customers’ business, experience seasonal revenue variation. Global trade flows are typically seasonal in nature, with peak activity typically occurring during the retail holiday season, which traditionally begins in September and lasts through mid-December. Our ACMI contracts have contractual utilization minimums that typically allow our customers to cancel an agreed-upon percentage of the guaranteed hours of aircraft utilization over the course of a year. Our ACMI customers often exercise those cancellation options early in the first quarter of the year, when the demand for air cargo capacity has been historically low following the seasonal holiday peak in the fourth quarter. While our revenues typically fluctuate seasonally as described above, a significant proportion of the costs associated with our business, such as aircraft rent, depreciation and facilities costs, are fixed and cannot easily be reduced to match the seasonal drop in demand. As a result, our net operating results are typically subject to a high degree of seasonality. Fuel price volatility and fuel availability could adversely affect our business and operations in our Commercial Charter business. The price of aircraft fuel is unpredictable and has been increasingly volatile over the past few years. With the commencement of the Amended BSA, we have been able to reduce our exposure to fuel risk significantly. However, we continue to bear the risk of fuel exposure for a portion of our Commercial Charter operations. In addition, while our ACMI contracts require our customers to pay for aviation fuel, if fuel costs increase significantly, our customers may reduce the volume and frequency of cargo shipments or find less costly alternatives for cargo delivery, such as land and sea carriers. Such instances could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents In the past, we have not experienced significant difficulties with respect to fuel availability. Although we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in the availability of jet fuel, a number of factors, such as geopolitical uncertainties in oil-producing nations and shortages of and disruptions to refining capacity, make accurate predictions unreliable. For example, hostilities and political turmoil in oil-producing nations could lead to disruptions in oil production and/or to substantially increased oil prices. Any inability to obtain jet fuel at competitive prices could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are party to collective bargaining agreements covering our U.S. crewmembers, and obligated to negotiate collective bargaining agreements covering our U.S. dispatchers, that could result in higher labor costs than those faced by some of our non-unionized competitors, putting us at a competitive disadvantage, and/or resulting in a work interruption or stoppage, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have two separate crewmember forces, one for each of Atlas and Polar and each is represented by the IBT. There is a separate collective bargaining agreement at each of Atlas and Polar. Collectively, these employees represented approximately 49.4%, 56.7% and 49.9% of our workforce at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We are subject to risks of increased labor costs associated with having a partially unionized workforce, as well as a greater risk of work interruption or stoppage. We cannot provide assurance that disputes, including disputes with certified collective bargaining representatives of our employees, will not arise in the future or will result in an agreement on terms satisfactory to us. Such disputes and the inherent costs associated with their resolution could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement and other rules and regulations that add costs to our business. A violation of these rules and regulations could lead to termination or suspension of our government contracts and could prevent us from entering into contracts with government agencies in the future. To do business with government agencies, including the AMC, we must comply with, and are affected by, many rules and regulations, including those related to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. These rules and regulations, among other things: • require, in some cases, procurement with small businesses and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations, and may give rise to U.S. government audit rights; • impose accounting rules that dictate how we define certain accounts, define allowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts; • establish specific health, safety and doing-business standards; and • restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. These rules and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of these rules and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts. In addition, the violation of certain other generally applicable rules and regulations could result in our suspension or debarment as a government contractor. Our insurance coverage may become more expensive and difficult to obtain and may not be adequate to insure all risks. Aviation insurance premiums historically have fluctuated based on factors that include the loss history of the industry in general, and the insured carrier in particular. Future terrorist attacks and other adverse events involving aircraft could result in increases in insurance costs and could affect the price and availability of such coverage. We have, as have most other U.S. airlines, purchased our war-risk coverage through a special program administered by the U.S. federal government. The FAA is currently providing war-risk hull and cargo 17 Table of Contents loss, crew and third-party liability insurance through August 31, 2010. This program is authorized under title 49 of U.S. Code § 44301, et seq., which allows the U.S. Secretary of Transportation to provide insurance and reinsurance against loss or damage arising out of any risk from the operation of an American aircraft or foreign-flag aircraft. Insurance can be provided on the condition (1) the President determines it is necessary for the continuation of U.S. commercial air service in the interest of air commerce, national defense, or foreign policy, and (2) the Secretary determines insurance is not readily available from insurance companies on reasonable terms. Authority under this program is effective until December 31, 2013. If the federal war-risk coverage program terminates or provides significantly less coverage in the future, we could face a material increase in the cost of war-risk coverage, and because of competitive pressures in the industry, our ability to pass this additional cost on to customers may be limited. We participate in an insurance pooling arrangement with DHL and their affiliates. This allows us to obtain aviation hull and liability and hull deductible coverage at reduced rates. If we were to withdraw from this arrangement for any reason or if other pool members have higher incidents, we could incur higher insurance costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing coverage on terms favorable to us, that the premiums for such coverage will not increase substantially or that we will not bear substantial losses and lost revenue from accidents or other adverse events. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of related insurance coverage or a significant increase in our current insurance expense could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, while we carry insurance against the risks inherent to our operations, which we believe are consistent with the insurance arrangements of other participants in our industry, we cannot provide assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. If our liability exceeds the amounts of our insurance coverage, we would be required to pay the excess amount, which could be material to our business, financial condition and operations. Some of our aircraft are periodically deployed in potentially dangerous situations, which may result in damage to our aircraft/cargo and/or harm to our employees. Some of our aircraft are deployed in potentially dangerous locations and carry hazardous cargo incidental to the services we provide in support of U.S. military activities, particularly in shipments to the Middle East. Some areas through which our flight routes pass are subject to geopolitical instability, which increases the risk of a loss of, or damage to, our aircraft and/or its cargo, or death or injury to our personnel. While we maintain insurance to cover the loss/damage of aircraft/cargo and/or injury to our employees, except for limited situations, we do not have insurance against the loss arising from business interruption. It is difficult to replace lost or substantially damaged aircraft due to the high capital requirements and long delivery lead times for new aircraft or to locate appropriate in-service aircraft for lease or sale. Any loss/damage of aircraft/cargo or injury to employees could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Volatility in international currency markets may adversely affect demand for our services. Although we price the majority of our services and receive the majority of our payments in U.S. dollars, many of our customers’ revenues are denominated in other currencies. Any significant devaluation in such currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on such customers’ ability to pay us or on their level of demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If there is a continued significant decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, the demand for some of the products that we transport could decline. Such a decline could reduce demand for our services and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third party service providers. If these service providers do not deliver the high level of service and support required in our business, we may lose customers and revenue. We rely on third parties to provide certain essential services on our behalf, including maintenance and ground handling. In certain locations, there may be very few sources, or sometimes only a single source, of 18 Table of Contents supply for these services. If we are unable to effectively manage these third parties, they may provide inadequate levels of support which could harm our customer relationships and have an adverse impact on our operations and the results thereof. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of our contracted services, or an unexpected termination of those services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be adversely affected by a failure or disruption of our computer, communications or other technology systems. We are heavily and increasingly dependent on technology to operate our business. The computer and communications systems on which we rely could be disrupted due to various events, some of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment failures, software failures and computer viruses and hackers. We have taken certain steps to help reduce the risk of some of these potential disruptions. There can be no assurance, however, that the measures we have taken are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions or failures of these systems. Any substantial or repeated failure of these systems could impact our operations and customer service, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenues, and increased costs, and generally harm our business. Moreover, a failure of certain of our vital systems could limit our ability to operate our flights for an extended period of time, which would have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The market for air cargo services is highly competitive and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose current customers or fail to attract new customers. Each of the markets we participate in is highly competitive and fragmented. We offer a broad range of aviation services and our competitors vary by geographic market and type of service and include other international and domestic contract carriers, regional and national ground handling and logistics companies, internal cargo units of major airlines and third party cargo providers. Competition in the air cargo and transportation market is influenced by several key factors, including quality, price and availability of assets and services. Regulatory requirements to operate in the U.S. domestic air cargo market have been reduced, facilitating the entry into domestic markets by non-U.S. air cargo companies. If we were to lose any major customers and/or fail to attract customers, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations and our failure to comply with these regulations in the U.S. and abroad, or the adoption of any new laws, policies or regulations or changes to such regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to complex aviation and transportation laws and regulations, including Title 49 of the U.S. Code (formerly the Federal Aviation Act 1958, as amended), under which the DOT and the FAA exercise regulatory authority over air carriers. In addition, our business activities fall within the jurisdiction of various other federal, state, local and foreign authorities, including the U.S. Department of Defense, the TSA, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. EPA. In addition, other countries in which we operate have similar regulatory regimes to which we are subjected. These laws and regulations may require us to maintain and comply with the terms of a wide variety of certificates, permits, licenses, noise abatement standards and other requirements and our failure to do so could result in substantial fines or other sanctions. These U.S. and foreign aviation regulatory agencies have the authority to modify, amend, suspend or revoke the authority and licenses issued to us for failure to comply with provisions of law or applicable regulations and may impose civil or criminal penalties for violations of applicable rules and regulations. Such fines or sanctions, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our mode of conducting business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, U.S. and foreign governmental authorities may adopt new regulations, directives or orders that could require us to take additional and potentially costly compliance steps or result in the grounding of some of our aircraft, which could increase our operating costs or result in a loss of revenues. 19 Table of Contents International aviation is increasingly subject to conflicting requirements imposed or proposed by the U.S. and foreign governments. This is especially true in the areas of transportation security, aircraft noise and emissions control. The imposition of potential new restrictions in the environmental area, to control greenhouse gas emissions, is a distinct possibility. Such restrictions may have an adverse impact on our industry. The recent finalization of EU legislation to limit the ability of EU carriers to Wet Lease (through ACMI arrangements) aircraft from non-EU carriers could also have an adverse impact. These and other similar regulatory developments could increase business uncertainty for commercial air-freight carriers. The airline industry is subject to numerous security regulations and rules that increase costs. Imposition of more stringent regulations and rules than those that currently exist could materially increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The TSA has increased security requirements in response to increased levels of terrorist activity, and has adopted comprehensive new regulations governing air cargo transportation, including all-cargo services, in such areas as cargo screening and security clearances for individuals with access to cargo. Additional measures, including a requirement to screen cargo, have been proposed, which, if adopted, may have an adverse impact on our ability to efficiently process cargo and would increase our costs. The cost of compliance with increasingly stringent regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future operations might be constrained by new FAA flight and duty time rules. In June 2009, following expressions of concern about pilot fatigue on certain long-range flights, the FAA convened an ARC comprised of various aviation stakeholders to recommend changes to the flight and duty time rules applicable to pilots. The FAA is now in the process of evaluating materials resulting from the ARC process and drafting a NPRM to modify existing flight and duty time rules. It is likely that the FAA will issue the NPRM in 2010, to be followed by a new rule that lessens the permissible amount of pilot flight and duty time and/or increases pilot rest requirements. Any new rule could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition by limiting crew scheduling flexibility and increasing operating costs, especially with respect to long-range flights. Risks Related to Our ACMI Business We depend on a limited number of significant customers for our ACMI business, and the loss of one or more of such customers could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our ACMI business accounted for approximately 45.4%, 22.3% and 22.9%, respectively, of our operating revenue. Our ACMI business depends on a limited number of customers, which averaged between five and six during these periods. In addition, the International Airline of United Arab Emirates (“Emirates”) accounted for 10.4%, 7.8% and 10.7% and Polar accounted for 18.5%, 3.2% and zero percent of our total operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We typically enter into ACMI contracts with our customers for terms ranging from three to six years on 747-400s. The terms of our existing contracts are scheduled to expire on a staggered basis. There is a risk that any one of our significant ACMI customers may not renew their ACMI contracts with us on favorable terms or at all, perhaps due to reasons beyond our control. For example, certain of our airline ACMI customers may not renew their ACMI contracts with us as they take delivery of new aircraft in their own fleet. Select customers have the opportunity to terminate their long-term agreements in advance of the expiration date, following a significant amount of notice to allow for remarketing of the aircraft. Such agreements generally contain a significant early termination fee paid by the customer. Entering into ACMI contracts with new customers generally requires a long sales cycle, and as a result, if our ACMI contracts are not renewed, and there is a resulting delay in entering into new contracts, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected if a large number of 747-400 passenger-to-freighter converted aircraft enter the ACMI market and cause ACMI rates to decrease. In addition, new entrants or different equipment types introduced into the ACMI market could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As passenger airlines begin to retire 747-400 aircraft from passenger service, a number of these aircraft are undergoing conversion to freighters. Although inferior in operating performance to the 747-400 specialty built freighters that we operate, if a significant number of these 747-400 converted freighter aircraft become available to our competitors, it could cause ACMI rates and underlying aircraft values to decrease. Additionally, the introduction of new competitors and/or equipment types into the ACMI market could cause ACMI rates to fall and/or could negatively affect our customer base. If either circumstance were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We could be adversely affected if the delivery our new 747-8F aircraft are delayed further or if such aircraft do not meet expected performance specifications. In September 2006, we placed an order for 12 new 747-8F aircraft that were originally scheduled to be delivered in 2010 and 2011. As part of this transaction, we also hold rights to purchase up to an additional 14 747-8F aircraft. The addition of these new aircraft is a material component of our growth and fleet renewal strategy. Although the 747-8F aircraft shares many of the same parts used in our 747-400 fleet, it is a new aircraft model and Boeing has not yet received the necessary regulatory approvals and certifications. Although Boeing has provided us with certain performance guarantees, the new aircraft may not meet the expected performance specifications, which could make it more difficult for us to deploy these aircraft in a timely manner or at expected rates. In November 2008, Boeing announced a delay in the delivery of the first 747-8F aircraft from late 2009 to the third quarter of 2010. In October 2009, Boeing announced a further delay in the first 747-8F delivery to the fourth quarter of 2010 and a general slowdown of the production line for this new aircraft type. Accordingly, we expect a corresponding delay in the delivery of our first 747-8F aircraft and subsequent deliveries. The estimated payment schedule for the PDPs has been adjusted accordingly. Any further delay in Boeing’s production or delivery schedule could delay the deployment of these aircraft and could cause PDP borrowings to become payable before delivery of the aircraft. Risks Related to the DHL Investment Our agreements with DHL require us to meet certain performance targets in our Express Network ACMI, including certain departure/arrival reliability standards. Failure to meet these performance targets could adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to derive the expected economic benefits from our transactions with DHL depends substantially on our ability to successfully meet strict performance standards and deadlines for aircraft and ground operations, which become increasingly stringent over time. If we do not meet these requirements, we may not be able to achieve the projected revenues and profitability from this contract, and we could be exposed to certain DHL remedies, including termination of the Amended BSA in the most extreme of circumstances, as described below. The DHL Agreements confer certain termination rights to DHL which, if exercised or triggered, may result in us being unable to realize the full benefits of this transaction. The Amended BSA gives DHL the option to terminate the agreement for convenience by giving notice to us at least one year prior to the fifth, tenth or fifteenth anniversary of the agreement’s commencement date. If DHL terminates for convenience on the fifth anniversary, Polar or DHL will be required to assume all six 747-400 freighter head leases for the entire remaining term of each such aircraft lease. Each assumed lease has a guarantee by DHL’s parent or a creditworthy subsidiary. Further, DHL has a right to terminate the Amended BSA for cause following a specified management resolution process in the event that we default on our performance or we are unable to perform for reasons beyond our control. If DHL exercises any of these termination rights, we will not be able to achieve the projected revenues and profitability from this contract. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our AMC Charter Business We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our AMC Charter business, and a substantial portion of these revenues have been generated pursuant to expansion flying, as opposed to fixed contract arrangements with the AMC. In the longer term, we expect that the revenues from our AMC Charter business may decline from current levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 31.0%, 26.5% and 24.7%, respectively, of our operating revenue were derived from our AMC Charter business. In each of these years, the revenues derived from expansion flights for the AMC significantly exceeded the value of the fixed flight component of our AMC contract. Historically, our AMC Charter business, especially expansion flights, has generated a significant amount of revenue. Future revenues from this business may decline from historic levels as a result of reduced U.S. military heavy lift requirements. Revenues from our AMC Charter business are derived from one-year contracts that the AMC is not required to renew. Our current AMC contract runs from October 1, 2009 through September 30, 2010. Changes in national and international political priorities can significantly affect the volume of our AMC Charter business, especially the volume of expansion flying. Any decrease in U.S. military activity could reduce our AMC Charter business. In addition, our share of the total AMC Charter business depends on several factors, including the total fleet size we commit to the CRAF program and the total number of aircraft deployed by our partners and competitors in the program. The AMC also holds all carriers to certain on-time performance requirements. To the extent that we fail to meet those performance requirements or if we fail to perform or to pass semi-annual AMC inspections, our revenues from our AMC Charter business could decline through a suspension or termination of our AMC contract. Our revenues could also decline due to a reduction in the revenue rate we are paid by the AMC, a greater reliance by the AMC on its own freighter fleet or a reduction in our allocation of expansion flying. Any reduction in our AMC flying could also negatively impact our Commercial Charter revenue from the return trips of one-way AMC missions. If our AMC Charter business declines significantly and we are otherwise unable to effectively deploy the resultant capacity, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our AMC Charter business is sensitive to teaming arrangements, our relative share of AMC flying and the profitability associated with it. If one of our team members reduces its commitments or withdraws from the program, or if other carriers on other teams commit additional aircraft to this program, our share of AMC flying may decline. In addition, any changes made to the commissions that we either pay or receive for AMC flying could impact our profit on this business. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Each year, the AMC allocates its air cargo capacity needs to different teams of airlines based on a point system that is determined by the amount and types of aircraft that each team of airlines pledges to the CRAF program. We participate in the CRAF program through a teaming arrangement with other airlines, led by FedEx. Our team is one of three major teams participating in the CRAF program. Several factors could adversely affect the amount of AMC flying that is allocated to us, including: • changes in the CRAF contracting mechanism; • the formation of new competing teaming arrangements; • the withdrawal of any of our team’s current partners, especially FedEx; • a reduction of the number of aircraft pledged to the CRAF program by us or other members of our team; or • increased participation of other carriers on other teams in the CRAF program. 22 Table of Contents Any reduction in our share of or profitability from AMC flying could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK U.S. citizenship requirements may limit common stock voting rights. Under U.S. federal law and DOT requirements, we must be owned and actually controlled by “citizens of the United States,” a statutorily defined term requiring, among other things, that not more than 25% of our issued and outstanding voting stock be owned and controlled, directly or indirectly, by non-U.S. citizens. DOT periodically conducts airline citizenship reviews and, if it finds that this requirement is not met, may require adjustment of the rights attendant to the airline’s issued shares. As one means to effect compliance, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that the failure of non-U.S. citizens to register their shares on a separate stock record, which we refer to as the “Foreign Stock Record,” results in a suspension of their voting rights. Our bylaws further limit the number of shares of our capital stock that may be registered on the Foreign Stock Record to 25% of our issued and outstanding shares. Registration on the Foreign Stock Record is made in chronological order based on the date we receive a written request for registration. As a result, if a non-U.S. citizen acquires shares of our common stock and does not or is not able to register those shares on our Foreign Stock Record, they may lose their ability to vote those shares. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, stockholder rights plan and by-laws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, by-laws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware law may render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire our company, even if such acquisition may be believed to be favorable to the interests of our stockholders, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In particular, our stockholder rights plan, adopted in May 2009, may cause substantial dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. Our common stock share price has been subject to fluctuation in value. The trading price of our common shares is subject to material fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including quarterly variations in our operating results, economic conditions of the airline industry generally or airline cargo carriers specifically, general economic conditions or other events and factors that are beyond our control. In the past, following periods of significant volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has been instituted against these companies in some circumstances. If this type of litigation were instituted against us following a period of volatility in the market price for our common stock, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 