risk factors apply that are not specific to our company or industry. We may be subjected to additional compliance and litigation risks as a result of introduction of the new Companies Act, 2013 in India and changes to the SEBI Equity Listing Agreement. As a company that is incorporated in India, we are governed by the rules and regulations covered under the Indian Companies Act, 1956. Significant amendments to the Companies Act were adopted in 2013 and 2014 and a majority of the provisions of the new Act (called the “Companies Act, 2013”) were implemented beginning in April, 2014. Some of the significant changes were in the areas of board and governance processes, boardroom responsibilities, disclosures, compulsory corporate social responsibility, audit matters, initiation of class action suits by shareholders or depositors, fraud reporting and whistle-blower mechanisms. 24 Table of Contents In addition, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) revised certain requirements of the Equity Listing Agreement pertaining to corporate governance matters that must be followed by listed Indian public companies effective as of October 1, 2014. Some of these changes were intended to align the Equity Listing Agreement with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013, while others included: new requirements as to parent company shareholder approval for certain sales or leases of assets or disinvestments in subsidiaries; risk management committee requirements for certain large companies; requirements that plans be in place for orderly succession for appointments to the board and senior management; shareholder approval requirements for certain transactions with related parties; and increased definitions of the rights and roles of shareholders. Certain provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the new Equity Listing Agreement clauses are subject to varying interpretations and their application in practice may evolve over time as additional guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This may result in delays or continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions. If communal disturbances or riots erupt in India, or if regional hostilities increase, this would adversely affect the Indian economy, which our business depends upon. India has experienced communal disturbances, terrorist attacks and riots during recent years. For example, Mumbai, India’s commercial capital, was the target of serial railway bombings in July 2006 as well as the “26/11” attacks on November 26, 2008. Hyderabad, the city in which we are headquartered, was also subjected to terrorist acts in May and August 2007 and more recently in February 2013, although none of our operations were impacted by these terrorist acts. During the last several years, the state of Telangana, where our headquarters is located, experienced political disruption relating to a movement to bifurcate a part of the then existing undivided state of Andhra Pradesh into a new separate state of “Telangana”. In February 2014, the Indian Parliament approved such bifurcation and announced creation of a new state of “Telangana” with effect from June 2, 2014. Due to civil disturbances and “Bandhs” (i.e., political protests in the form of worker strikes), several productive days were lost from forced or precautionary closures of our production units and offices during the agitation movement. We experienced such issues in 2009 and 2013 in Andhra Pradesh (now Telangana). If there are any such strikes, political protests or civil unrest in the future, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected as a consequence. Additionally, India has from time to time experienced hostilities with neighboring countries. The hostilities have continued sporadically. Hostilities and tensions may occur in the future and on a wider scale. These hostilities and tensions could lead to political or economic instability in India and harm our business operations, our future financial performance and the price of our shares and our ADSs. A slowdown in economic growth in India may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our performance and the quality and growth of our business are necessarily dependent on the health of the overall Indian economy. The Indian economy has grown significantly over the past few years. Any future slowdown in the Indian economy could harm us, our customers and other contractual counterparties. In addition, the Indian economy is in a state of transition. The share of the services sector of the Indian economy is rising while that of the industrial, manufacturing and agricultural sector is declining. It is difficult to gauge the impact of these fundamental economic changes on our business. If wage costs or inflation rise in India, it may adversely affect our competitive advantages over higher cost countries and our profits may decline. Wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in developed countries and have been one of our competitive strengths. However, wage increases in India may increase our costs, reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Due to various macro-economic factors, the rate of inflation has recently been highly volatile in India. According to the economic report released by the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance in India, the annual inflation rate in India, as measured by the benchmark wholesale price index, Base 2004-05=100 was -2.33% for the year ended March 31, 2015 (as compared to 6.00% for the year ended March 31, 2014). This trend may continue to fluctuate and/or the rate of inflation may rise substantially. We may not be able to pass these inflationary costs on to our customers by increasing the price we charge for our products. If this occurs, our profits may decline. 25 Table of Contents Stringent labor laws may adversely affect our ability to have flexible human resource policies; labor union problems could negatively affect our production capacity and overall profitability. Labor laws in India are more stringent than in other parts of the world. These laws may restrict our ability to have human resource policies that would allow us to react swiftly to the needs of our business. Approximately 5% of our employees belong to a number of different labor unions. If we experience problems with our labor unions, our production capacity and overall profitability could be negatively affected. OTHER RISKS RELATING TO OUR ADSs THAT ARE NOT SPECIFIC TO OUR COMPANY OR INDUSTRY Indian law imposes certain restrictions that limit a holder’s ability to transfer the equity shares obtained upon conversion of ADSs and repatriate the proceeds of such transfer, which may cause our ADSs to trade at a premium or discount to the market price of our equity shares. Under certain circumstances, the Reserve Bank of India must approve the sale of equity shares underlying ADSs by a non-resident of India to a resident of India. The Reserve Bank of India has given general permission to effect sales of existing shares or convertible debentures of an Indian company by a resident to a non-resident, subject to certain conditions, including the price at which the shares must be sold. Additionally, except under certain limited circumstances, if an investor seeks to convert the Indian rupee proceeds from a sale of equity shares in India into foreign currency and then repatriate that foreign currency from India, he or she will have to obtain an additional approval from the Reserve Bank of India for each such transaction. Required approval from the Reserve Bank of India or any other government agency may not be obtained on terms favorable to a non-resident investor or at all. There are limits and conditions to the deposit of shares into the ADS facility. Indian legal restrictions may limit the supply of our ADSs. The only way to add to the supply of our ADSs will be through a primary issuance because the depositary is not permitted to accept deposits of our outstanding shares and issue ADSs representing those shares. However, an investor in our ADSs who surrenders an ADS and withdraws our shares will be permitted to redeposit those shares in the depositary facility in exchange for our ADSs. In addition, an investor who has purchased our shares in the Indian market will be able to deposit them in the ADS program, but only in a number that does not exceed the number of underlying shares that have been withdrawn from and not re-deposited into the depositary facility. Moreover, there are restrictions on foreign institutional ownership of our equity shares as opposed to our ADSs. Financial instability in other countries, particularly emerging market countries in Asia, could affect our business and the price and liquidity of our shares and our ADSs. The Indian markets and the Indian economy are influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries, particularly emerging market countries in Asia. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country can have adverse effects on the securities of companies in other countries, including India. Any worldwide financial instability or any loss of investor confidence in the financial systems of Asian or other emerging markets could increase volatility in Indian financial markets or adversely affect the Indian economy in general. Either of these results could harm our business, our future financial performance and the price of our equity shares and ADSs. If U.S. investors in our ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights available to our non-U.S. shareholders due to the registration requirements of U.S. securities laws, the investment of such U.S. investors in our ADSs may be diluted. A company incorporated in India must offer its holders of shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any shares, unless these rights have been waived by at least 75% of our shareholders present and voting at a shareholders’ general meeting. U.S. investors in our ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for the shares underlying our ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 is effective with respect to the rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Our decision to file a registration statement will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with a registration statement as well as the perceived benefits of enabling U.S. investors in our ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. We might choose not to file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any of these securities in the future, such securities may be issued to the depositary, which may sell them in the securities markets in India for the benefit of the investors in our ADSs. There can be no assurances as to the value, if any, the depositary would receive upon the sale of these securities. To the extent that U.S. investors in our ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. 26 Table of Contents Our equity shares and our ADSs may be subject to market price volatility, and the market price of our equity shares and ADSs may decline disproportionately in response to adverse developments that are unrelated to our operating performance. Market prices for the securities of Indian pharmaceutical companies, including our own, have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Factors such as the following can have an adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs and equity shares: • general market conditions, • speculative trading in our shares and ADSs, and • developments relating to our peer companies in the pharmaceutical industry. There may be less company information available in Indian securities markets than securities markets in developed countries. There is a difference between the level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets over the activities of investors, brokers and other participants, as compared to the level of regulation and monitoring of markets in the United States and other developed economies. The Securities and Exchange Board of India is responsible for improving disclosure and other regulatory standards for the Indian securities markets. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has issued regulations and guidelines on disclosure requirements, insider trading and other matters. There may, however, be less publicly available information about Indian companies than is regularly made available by public companies in developed countries, which could affect the market for our equity shares and ADSs. Indian stock exchange closures, broker defaults, settlement delays, and Indian Government regulations on stock market operations could affect the market price and liquidity of our equity shares. The Indian securities markets are smaller than the securities markets in the United States and Europe and have experienced volatility from time to time. The regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities market and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants differ, in some cases significantly, from those in the United States and some European countries. Indian stock exchanges have at times experienced problems, including temporary exchange closures, broker defaults and settlement delays and if similar problems were to recur, they could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies, including our shares. Furthermore, any change in Indian Government regulations of stock markets could affect the market price and liquidity of our equity shares and ADSs. 