Risk Factors Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer material adverse effects due to any of the following risks. We have described below all the risks that we consider material, but those risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. Strategic Market Dynamics Our business is affected by the uncertainties of economic and political conditions: Our business environment is influenced by conditions in the domestic and global economies. During fiscal 2008, the capital and credit markets experienced extended volatility and disruption that have reached unprecedented levels. If as a consequence of the credit market crisis these levels of market volatility and disruption continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect that may be material to our revenues, results of operations, financial condition and ability to access capital. For example, the current tightening of credit in the financial markets may make it more difficult for our customers to obtain financing and as a result, they may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services or to execute transactions. Additionally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or securing access to the capital markets they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, the amounts they owe us, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. 4 Table of Contents Numerous other factors, such as fluctuation of energy and raw material prices as well as global political conflicts, including situations in the Middle East and other regions, continue to impact macroeconomic parameters and the international capital and credit markets. The uncertainty of economic and political conditions can have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations and can also make our budgeting and forecasting more difficult. In addition, our Sectors and Cross-Sector Businesses are affected by market conditions. For example the Industry Sector would be affected considerably by unfavorable market conditions in segments of the industry market. The Healthcare Sector is dependent on the healthcare markets, particularly in the United States. Our Energy Sector in particular is affected considerably by the markets in Asia as well as the Middle East. Our financial results and cash flows may be adversely affected by continued strategic reorientations and cost-cutting initiatives: We are in the process of strategic reorientations and constantly perform cost-cutting initiatives, including headcount reduction such as the previously announced SG&A cost reduction program, capacity adjustments through consolidation of business activities and manufacturing facilities, as well as streamlining product portfolios. These measures impact our earnings results, and any future contribution of these measures to our profitability will be influenced by the actual savings achieved and by our ability to sustain these ongoing efforts. We operate in highly competitive markets, which are subject to price pressures and rapid changes: The worldwide markets for our products are highly competitive in terms of pricing, product and service quality, development and introduction time, customer service and financing terms. We face strong competitors, some of which are larger and may have greater resources in a given business area and some from emerging markets which may have a better cost structure. Siemens faces downward price pressure and is exposed to market downturns or slower growth. Some industries in which we operate are undergoing consolidation, which may result in stronger competitors and a change in our relative market position. In some of our markets, new products must be developed and introduced rapidly in order to capture available opportunities, and this can lead to quality problems. Our operating results depend to a significant extent on our abilities to adapt to changes in markets and to reduce the costs of producing high-quality new and existing products. Any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our businesses must keep pace with technological changes and develop new products and services to remain competitive: The markets in which our businesses operate experience rapid and significant changes due to the introduction of innovative technologies. To meet our customers’ needs in these businesses, we must continuously design new, and update existing, products and services and invest in and develop new technologies. This is especially true for our Healthcare Sector. Introducing new offerings and technologies requires a significant commitment to research and development, which may not always result in success. Our sales and profits may suffer if we invest in technologies that do not function as expected or are not accepted in the marketplace as anticipated, if our products or systems are not brought to market in a timely manner or as they become obsolete. Our financial results and cash flows may be adversely affected by cost overruns or additional payment obligations particularly with respect to our long-term contracts: Our Energy and Industry Sectors as well as our Cross-Sector Business Siemens IT Solutions and Services perform a significant portion of their business, especially large projects, under long-term contracts that are awarded on a competitive bidding basis. The profit margins realized on such fixed-priced contracts may vary from original estimates as a result of changes in costs and productivity over their term. We sometimes bear the risk of quality problems, cost overruns or contractual penalties caused by unexpected technological problems, unforeseen developments at the project sites, performance problems with our subcontractors or other logistical difficulties. Certain of our multi-year contracts also contain demanding installation and maintenance requirements, in addition to other performance criteria relating to timing, unit cost requirements and compliance with government regulations, which, if not satisfied, could subject us to substantial contractual penalties, damages, non-payment and contract termination. There can be no assurance that all of our fixed-priced contracts can be completed profitably. For additional information, see Item 5: “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates.” 5 Table of Contents Equity Interests and Strategic Alliances We may be adversely affected by our equity interests and strategic alliances: Our strategy includes strengthening our business interests through joint ventures, associated companies and strategic alliances. Certain of our investments are accounted for using the equity method, including, among others, Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN), BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH (BSH) and Areva NP. Any factors negatively influencing the profitability of our equity investments could have a negative impact on our own results and may negatively affect our cash flow and our ability to recover the full amount of our investments. In addition, such portfolio transactions are inherently risky because of the difficulties of integrating people, operations, technologies and products that may arise. Strategic alliances may also pose risks for us because we compete in some business areas with companies with which we have strategic alliances. Merger, Acquisition & Divestiture Our financial results and cash flows may be adversely affected by portfolio measures: Our strategy includes divesting our interests in some business areas and strengthening others through portfolio measures, including mergers and acquisitions. With respect to dispositions, we may not be able to divest some of our activities as planned, and our divesting activities could have a negative impact on our results of operations, our cash flow at closing, as well as in the future, and on our reputation. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky because of the difficulties of integrating people, operations, technologies and products that may arise. There can be no assurance that any of the businesses we acquire can be successfully integrated or that they will perform well once integrated. In addition, we may incur significant acquisition, administrative and other costs in connection with these transactions, including costs related to integration of acquired businesses. Furthermore, portfolio activities may result in additional financing needs and adversely affect our financial leverage and our debt-to-equity ratio. Acquisitions may also lead to substantial increases in long-lived assets, including goodwill. Write-downs of these assets due to unforeseen business developments may materially and adversely affect our earnings. All of our Sectors have significant amounts of goodwill. Operations Supply Chain Management We are dependent upon the ability of third parties to deliver parts, components and services on time: We rely on third parties to supply us with parts, components and services. Using third parties to manufacture, assemble and test our products reduces our control over manufacturing yields, quality assurance, product delivery schedules and costs. The third parties that supply us with parts and components also have other customers and may not have sufficient capacity to meet all of their customers’ needs, including ours, during periods of excess demand. Component supply delays can affect the performance of certain of our Sectors. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid supply-related problems, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter supply problems in the future or that we will be able to replace a supplier that is not able to meet our demand. This risk is particularly evident in businesses with a very limited number of suppliers. Shortages and delays could materially harm our business. Unanticipated increases in the price of components due to market shortages or other reasons could also adversely affect the performance of certain of our Sectors. We may be adversely affected by rising raw material prices: Our Sectors are exposed to fluctuations in energy and raw material prices. In recent times, commodities such as oil, steel and copper have been subject to volatile markets and temporarily subject to significant price increases. If we are not able to compensate for or pass on our increased costs to customers, such price increases could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. 6 Table of Contents Product Lifecycle Management We face operational risks in our value chain processes: Our value chain comprises all steps, from research and development to production, marketing, sales and services. Operational failures in our value chain processes could result in quality problems or potential product, labor safety, regulatory or environmental risks. Such risks are particularly present in relation to our production facilities, which are located all over the world and have a high degree of organizational and technological complexity. From time to time, some of the products we sell have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of such products or from the software integrated into them. Such operational failures or quality issues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Human Resources We are dependent upon hiring and retaining highly qualified management and technical personnel: Competition for highly qualified management and technical personnel remains intense in the industries and regions in which our Sectors and Cross-Sector Businesses operate. In many of our business areas, we further intend to extend our service businesses significantly, for which we will need highly skilled employees. Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate and retain engineers and other qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified employees and key personnel in the future, and any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. Financial Market We are exposed to currency risks and interest rate risks: We are particularly exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro, because a high percentage of our business volume is conducted in the United States and as exports from Europe. As a result, a strong euro in relation to the U.S. dollar can have a material impact on our other revenues and results. Certain currency risks—as well as interest rate risks—are hedged on a company-wide basis using derivative financial instruments. Depending on the development of foreign currency exchange rates, our hedging activities can have significant effects on our cash flow, particularly for our treasury activities (Corporate Treasury). Our Sectors and Cross-Sector Businesses engage in currency hedging activities which sometimes do not qualify for hedge accounting. In addition, our Corporate Treasury has interest rate hedging activities which also do not qualify for hedge accounting, and are subject to changes in interest rates. Accordingly, exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations may influence our financial results and lead to earnings volatility. A strengthening of the euro (particularly against the U.S. dollar) may also change our competitive position, as many of our competitors may benefit from having a substantial portion of their costs based in weaker currencies, enabling them to offer their products at lower prices. For more details regarding currency risks, interest rate risks, hedging activities and other market risks, please see “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” We are exposed to widening credit spreads: Regarding our Corporate Treasury activities, widening credit spreads due to decreasing liquidity in the financial markets might lead to decreasing fair market values of our existing derivative financial instruments and traded receivables. In addition, we also see a risk of increasing refinancing costs if the turbulences in the global financial markets would persist. Furthermore, costs for buying protection on credit default risks could increase due to a potential increase of counterparty risks. Liquidity and Credit Our future financing via Corporate Treasury may be affected by the uncertainties of economic conditions and the development of capital and bank markets: Our Corporate Treasury is responsible for the financing of the Company and our Sectors and Cross-Sector Businesses. A negative development in the capital markets could increase our cost of debt capital. The development in the subprime mortgage market in the U.S. has had a global impact on the capital markets with subsequent losses and worsening liquidity of many financial institutions, so far culminating in the Chapter 11 filing of a large U.S.-based investment bank. Such developments could influence our 7 Table of Contents possibilities of obtaining debt financing. Regarding our Corporate Treasury activities, deteriorating credit quality and/or default of counterparties may adversely affect our results. Our financing activities subject us to various risks including credit, interest rate and foreign exchange risk: We provide to our customers various forms of direct and indirect financing in connection with large projects such as those undertaken by the Energy Sector. We finance a large number of smaller customer orders, for example the leasing of medical equipment, in part, through Siemens Financial Services (SFS). SFS also incurs credit risk by financing third-party equipment, its factoring business or by taking direct or indirect participations in financings, such as syndicated loans. We partially take a security interest in the assets we finance or receive additional collateral. We may lose money if the credit quality of our customers deteriorates or if they default on their payment obligation to us, if the value of the assets that we have taken a security interest in or additional collateral declines, if interest rates or foreign exchange rates fluctuate, or if the projects in which we invest are unsuccessful. The current financial crisis and potential adverse changes in economic conditions could cause a decline in the fair market values of financial assets and customer default rates to increase substantially and asset and collateral values to decline, resulting in losses which could have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Downgrades of our ratings may increase our cost of capital and could negatively affect our businesses: Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are influenced significantly by the actual and expected performance of the Sectors and Cross-Sector Businesses, as well as the Company’s portfolio measures. An actual or expected negative development of our results of operations or cash flows or an increase in our net debt position may result in the deterioration of our credit rating. Expected or actual downgrades by rating agencies may increase our cost of capital, may reduce our potential investor base and may negatively affect our businesses. Capital Structure The funded status of our off-balance sheet pension benefit plans and its financial statement impact is dependent on several factors: The funded status of our pension plans may be affected by an increase or decrease in the Defined Benefit Obligation (DBO), as well as by an increase or decrease in the valuation of plan assets. Pensions are accounted for in accordance with actuarial valuations, which rely on statistical and other factors in order to anticipate future events. These factors include key pension plan valuation assumptions such as the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases and pension progression. Assumptions may differ from actual developments due to changing market and economic conditions, thereby resulting in an increase or decrease in the DBO. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. Also, changes in pension plan assumptions can affect net periodic pension cost. For example, a change in discount rates or in the expected return on plan assets assumption may result in changes in the net benefit pension cost in the following financial year. For additional information, see Item 5: “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Compliance Code of Conduct Public prosecutors and other government authorities in jurisdictions around the world, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), are conducting investigations of Siemens and certain of its current and former employees regarding allegations of public corruption and other illegal acts. The results of these and any future investigations may have a material adverse effect on the development of future business opportunities, our financial results and condition, the price of our shares and ADSs and our reputation: Public prosecutors and other government authorities in jurisdictions around the world are investigating allegations of corruption at a number of Siemens’ former business Groups and regional companies. In addition to ongoing investigations, there could be additional investigations launched in the future by governmental authorities in these or other jurisdictions and existing investigations may be expanded. These governmental authorities may take action against us or some of our employees. These actions could include 8 Table of Contents criminal and civil fines, in addition to those already imposed on the Company, as well as penalties, sanctions, injunctions against future conduct, profit disgorgement, disqualifications from engaging in certain types of business, the loss of business licenses or permits or other restrictions. In addition to monetary and other penalties, a monitor could be appointed to review future business practices with the goal of ensuring compliance with applicable laws and we may otherwise be required to further modify our business practices and compliance programs. Tax authorities may also impose certain remedies, including potential tax penalties. In fiscal year 2008, Siemens accrued a provision in the amount of approximately €1 billion in connection with ongoing discussions with the Munich public prosecutor, the SEC and DOJ for the purpose of resolving their respective investigations. Depending on the development of the investigations, we may be required to accrue additional material amounts for such penalties, damages, profit disgorgement or other possible actions that may be taken by various governmental authorities. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and condition, the price of our shares and ADSs and our reputation. Additionally, we engage in a substantial amount of business with governments and government-owned enterprises around the world. We also participate in a number of projects funded by government agencies and non-governmental organizations such as the World Bank and other multilateral development banks. If we or our subsidiaries are found to have engaged in certain illegal acts or are found not to have taken effective steps to address the allegations or findings of corruption in our business, this may impair our ability to participate in business with governments or non-governmental organizations and may result in formal exclusions from such business, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, legislation of member states of the European Union could in certain cases result in mandatory or discretionary exclusion from public contracts in case of a conviction for bribery and certain other offences or for other reasons. As described more fully in Item 4: “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings,” we or our subsidiaries have in the past been excluded from government contracting as a result of findings of corruption or other misconduct. Conviction for illegal behavior, or debarment from participating in contracting with governments or non-governmental organizations, in one jurisdiction may lead to debarment in other jurisdictions or by other non-governmental organizations. Even if we are not formally excluded from participating in government business, government agencies or non-governmental organizations may informally exclude us from tendering for or participating in certain contracts. From time to time, we have received requests for information from government customers and non-governmental organizations regarding the investigations described above and our response to those investigations. We expect such requests to continue. In addition, our involvement in existing and potential corruption proceedings could also damage our reputation generally and have an adverse impact on our ability to compete for business from both public and private sector customers. The investigations could also impair our relationship with business partners on whom we depend and our ability to obtain new business partners and could also adversely affect our ability to pursue strategic projects and transactions which could be important to our business, such as alliances, joint ventures or other combinations. Current or future investigations could result in the cancellation of certain of our existing contracts, and the commencement of significant third-party litigation, including by our competitors. Many of the governmental investigations are at this time incomplete and we cannot predict when they will be completed or what their outcome will be, including the potential effect that their results or the reactions of third parties thereto, may have on our business. Future developments in these investigations, responding to the requests of governmental authorities and cooperating with these investigations, especially if we are not able to resolve the investigations in a timely manner, could divert management’s attention and resources from other issues facing our business. Management has implemented a remediation plan to address corruption and compliance risk in our business. If this remediation plan is unsuccessful, there could be an increased risk that one or more of the risks described above could materialize. Legal Our business could suffer as a result of current or future litigation: We are subject to numerous risks relating to legal proceedings to which we are currently a party or that could develop in the future. In the ordinary course of our business, we become party to lawsuits, and/or similar proceedings, and become subject to governmental investigations and proceedings involving allegations of improper delivery of goods or services, product 9 Table of Contents liability, product defects, quality problems and intellectual property infringement and/or alleged or suspected violations of applicable laws. In addition, we may face third party claims as a result of the circumstances that led to the corruption proceedings described above. For additional information with respect to legal proceedings, see Item 4: “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings.” There can be no assurance that the results of these or other legal proceedings will not materially harm our business, reputation or brand. We record a provision for legal proceedings risks when (i) a present obligation as a result of a past event exists; (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and (iii) a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. We maintain liability insurance for certain legal risks at levels our management believes are appropriate and consistent with industry practice. We may incur losses relating to legal proceedings beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of such insurance and such losses may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations or financial condition and our provisions for legal proceedings-related losses may not be sufficient to cover our ultimate loss or expenditure. Regulatory We are subject to risks associated with our international operations: Changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers and price or exchange controls could impact our sales and profitability and make the repatriation of profits difficult. In addition, the uncertainty of the legal environment in some regions could limit our ability to enforce our rights. We expect that sales to emerging markets will continue to be an increasing portion of total sales, as our business naturally evolves and as developing nations and regions around the world increase their demand for our offerings. Emerging market operations present several risks, including civil disturbances, health concern, cultural differences such as employment and business practices, volatility in gross domestic product, economic and governmental instability, the potential for nationalization of private assets and the imposition of exchange controls. In particular, the Asian markets are important for our long-term growth strategy, and our sizeable operations in China are influenced by a legal system that is still developing and is subject to change. Our growth strategy could be limited by governments supporting local industries. The demand for many of the products of our Sectors and Cross-Sector Businesses, particularly those that derive their revenue from large projects, can be affected by expectations of future demand, prices and gross domestic product in the markets in which those Sectors and Cross-Sector Businesses operate. If any of these risks or similar risks associated with our international operations were to materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to environmental and other government regulations: Some of the industries in which we operate are highly regulated. Current and future environmental and other government regulations, or changes thereto, may result in significant increases in our operating or product costs. We could also face liability for damage or remediation for environmental contamination at the facilities we design or operate. See Item 4: “Information on the Company—Environmental Matters” for a discussion of significant environmental matters. We accrue for environmental risks when (i) a present obligation as a result of a past event exists; (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and (iii) a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. With regard to certain environmental risks, we maintain liability insurance at levels that our management believes are appropriate and consistent with industry practice. We may incur environmental losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of such insurance, and such losses may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations or financial condition and our provisions for environmental remediation may not be sufficient to cover the ultimate losses or expenditures. Changes in tax regulations could result in lower earnings and cash flows: We operate in approximately 190 countries and therefore are subject to different tax regulations. Changes in tax regulation could result in higher tax expenses and payments. Furthermore, changes in tax regulation could impact our tax liabilities as well as deferred tax assets. 10 Table of Contents 