ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following Risk Factors and all other information in this Report. These Risk Factors are not the only ones facing us. Our operations could also be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Risks Related to Our Business Generally Continued slowness or deterioration in the airfreight market, global economic conditions or financial markets could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and ability to access capital markets. Airfreight demand has historically been highly dependent on global economic conditions. Although global economic conditions have recently improved, the airfreight market has not returned to historical levels of growth. If demand for our services, Yields or lease rates fail to improve, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot accurately predict the effect and duration of any airfreight market or economic slowdown or the timing and strength of a subsequent recovery. In addition, we may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets deteriorate. Our business is capital intensive and growth depends on the availability of capital for new aircraft, among other things. If today’s capital availability deteriorates, we may be unable to raise the capital necessary to finance business growth or other initiatives. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. We could be adversely affected if any of our existing aircraft are underutilized or we fail to redeploy or deploy aircraft with customers at favorable rates. We could also be adversely affected from the loss of one or more of our aircraft for an extended period of time. Our operating revenues depend on our ability to effectively deploy all the aircraft in our fleet and maintain high utilization of our aircraft at favorable rates. If we have underutilized aircraft, we would seek to redeploy those aircraft in our other lines of business or sell them. If we are unable to successfully redeploy our existing aircraft at favorable rates or sell them on favorable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if one or more of our aircraft are out of service for an extended period of time, our operating revenues would decrease and we may have difficulty fulfilling our obligations under one or more of our existing contracts. The loss of revenue resulting from any such business interruption, and the cost, long lead time and difficulties in sourcing a replacement aircraft, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our substantial lease and debt obligations, including aircraft lease and other obligations, could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or capital requirements, all of which could limit our financial resources and ability to compete, and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic events. As of December 31, 2013, we had total debt obligations of approximately $1.7 billion and total aircraft operating leases and other lease obligations of $1.3 billion. These obligations have increased significantly and will increase further if we enter into financing arrangements for future aircraft purchases. Our outstanding financial obligations could have negative consequences, including: • making it more difficult to satisfy our debt and lease obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations for interest, principal and lease payments and reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund working capital and other general corporate requirements; 12 Table of Contents • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry. Our ability to service our debt and meet our lease and other obligations as they come due is dependent on our future financial and operating performance. This performance is subject to various factors, including factors beyond our control, such as changes in global and regional economic conditions, changes in our industry, changes in interest or currency exchange rates, the price and availability of aircraft fuel and other costs, including labor and insurance. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service, lease and other obligations as they become due and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected under these circumstances. Certain of our debt obligations contain a number of restrictive covenants. In addition, many of our debt and lease obligations have cross default and cross acceleration provisions. Restrictive covenants in certain of our debt and lease obligations, under certain circumstances, could impact our ability to: • pay certain dividends or repurchase stock; • consolidate or merge with or into other companies or sell substantially all our assets; • expand significantly into lines of businesses beyond existing business activities or those which are cargo-related and/or aviation-related and similar businesses; and/or • modify the terms of debt or lease financing arrangements. In certain circumstances, a covenant default under one of our debt instruments could cause us to be in default of other obligations as well. Any unremedied defaults could lead to an acceleration of the amounts owed and potentially could cause us to lose possession or control of certain aircraft. Our financial condition may suffer if we experience unanticipated costs as a result of ongoing lawsuits, claims and investigations related to alleged improper matters related to use of fuel surcharges and other rate components for air cargo services. The Company, Polar and Polar LLC (“Old Polar”), formerly Polar Air Cargo, Inc., have been named defendants, along with a number of other cargo carriers, in several class actions in the United States arising from allegations about the pricing practices of a number of air cargo carriers that have now been consolidated for pretrial purposes in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The consolidated complaint alleges, among other things, that the defendants, including the Company, Polar and Old Polar, manipulated the market price for air cargo services sold domestically and abroad through the use of fuel and other surcharges, in violation of U.S. Federal, state and EU antitrust laws. The suit seeks treble damages and injunctive relief. The Company and Old Polar, along with a number of other cargo carriers, have also been named in two civil class action suits in the provinces of Ontario and Quebec, Canada, which are substantially similar to the U.S. class action suits described above. Moreover, we have submitted relevant information and documentation to certain foreign regulators in connection with investigations initiated by such authorities into pricing practices of certain international air cargo carriers. These proceedings are continuing, and additional investigations and proceedings may be commenced and charges may be brought in these and other jurisdictions. Other parties may be added to these proceedings, and authorities may request additional information from us. If Old Polar or the Company were to incur an unfavorable outcome in connection with one or more of the related investigations or the litigation described above, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents In addition to the litigation and investigations described above, we are subject to a number of Brazilian customs claims, as well as other claims, lawsuits and pending actions which we consider to be routine and incidental to our business (see Note 12 to our Financial Statements). If we were to receive an adverse ruling or decision on any such claims, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Global trade flows are typically seasonal, and our business segments, including our ACMI customers’ business, experience seasonal variations. Global trade flows are typically seasonal in nature, with peak activity occurring during the retail holiday season, which generally begins in September / October and lasts through mid-December. Our ACMI contracts have contractual utilization minimums that typically allow our customers to cancel an agreed-upon percentage of the guaranteed hours of aircraft utilization over the course of a year. Our ACMI customers often exercise those cancellation options early in the first quarter of the year, when the demand for air cargo capacity is historically low following the seasonal holiday peak in the fourth quarter of the previous year. While our revenues typically fluctuate seasonally as described above, a significant proportion of the costs associated with our business, such as aircraft rent, depreciation and facilities costs, are fixed and cannot easily be reduced to match the seasonal drop in demand. As a result, our net operating results are typically subject to a high degree of seasonality. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement and other rules and regulations that affect our business. A violation of these rules and regulations could lead to termination or suspension of our government contracts and could prevent us from entering into contracts with government agencies in the future. To do business with government agencies, including the AMC, we must comply with, and are affected by, many rules and regulations, including those related to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. These rules and regulations, among other things: • require, in some cases, procurement from small businesses; • require disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • give rise to U.S. government audit rights; • impose accounting rules that dictate how we define certain accounts, define allowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts; • establish specific health, safety and doing-business standards; and • restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. These rules and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of these rules and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts. In addition, the violation of certain other generally applicable rules and regulations could result in our suspension or debarment as a government contractor. Fuel price volatility and fuel availability could adversely affect our business and operations. The price of aircraft fuel is unpredictable and can be volatile. While we have been able to reduce our exposure to fuel risk significantly, we do bear some risk of fuel exposure for our Commercial Charter operations. In addition, while our ACMI contracts require our customers to pay for aircraft fuel, if fuel costs increase significantly, our customers may reduce the volume and frequency of cargo shipments or find less costly alternatives for cargo delivery, such as land and sea carriers. Such instances could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents In the past, we have not experienced significant difficulties with respect to fuel availability. Although we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in the availability of aircraft fuel, a number of factors, such as geopolitical uncertainties in oil-producing nations and shortages of and disruptions to refining capacity, make accurate predictions unreliable. For example, hostilities and political turmoil in oil-producing nations could lead to disruptions in oil production and/or to substantially increased oil prices. Any inability to obtain aircraft fuel at competitive prices could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are party to a collective bargaining agreement covering our U.S. pilots and a collective bargaining agreement covering our U.S. dispatchers, which could result in higher labor costs than those faced by some of our non-unionized competitors. This could put us at a competitive disadvantage and/or result in a work interruption or stoppage. Atlas pilots are represented by the IBT under a five-year collective bargaining agreement signed in 2011. Atlas and Polar dispatchers are represented by the IBT under a five-year collective bargaining agreement signed in 2012. We are subject to risks of increased labor costs associated with having a partially unionized workforce, as well as a greater risk of work interruption or stoppage. We cannot provide assurance that disputes, including disputes with certified collective bargaining representatives of our employees, will not arise in the future or that any outcome of such disputes will result in an agreement on terms satisfactory to us. Insurance coverage may become more expensive and difficult to obtain and may not be adequate to insure all of our risks. In addition, if our Dry Lease customers have inadequate insurance coverage or fail to fulfill their indemnification obligations, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Aviation insurance premiums historically have fluctuated based on factors that include the loss history of the industry in general, and the insured carrier in particular. Future terrorist attacks and other adverse events involving aircraft could result in increases in insurance costs and could affect the price and availability of such coverage. We have, as have most other U.S. airlines, purchased our war-risk coverage through a special program administered by the U.S. federal government. The FAA is currently providing war-risk hull and cargo loss, crew and third-party liability insurance through September 30, 2014. Unless the U.S. Congress enacts legislation extending the program, U.S. federal government coverage will end on that date. It is possible that the U.S. Congress will fail to vote to extend the program or will extend it only in more limited form. If the federal war-risk coverage program is terminated or extended with significantly less coverage in the future, we could face an increase in the cost of war-risk coverage, and because of competitive pressures in the industry, our ability to pass this additional cost on to customers may be limited. We may also be unable to secure the same scope of war-risk insurance coverage as we have today. We participate in an insurance pooling arrangement with DHL and its partners. This allows us to obtain aviation hull and liability and hull deductible coverage at reduced rates. If we are no longer included in this arrangement for any reason or if other pool members have coverage incidents, we may incur higher insurance costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing coverage on terms favorable to us, that the premiums for such coverage will not increase substantially or that we will not bear substantial losses and lost revenue from accidents or other adverse events. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of related insurance coverage or a significant increase in our current insurance expense could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, while we carry insurance against the risks inherent to our operations, which we believe are consistent with the insurance arrangements of other participants in our industry, we cannot provide assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. 15 Table of Contents Lessees are required under our Dry Leases to indemnify us for, and insure against, liabilities arising out of the use and operation of the aircraft, including third-party claims for death or injury to persons and damage to property for which we may be deemed liable. Lessees are also required to maintain public liability, property damage and all-risk hull and war-risk hull insurance on the aircraft at agreed upon levels. If our lessees’ insurance is not sufficient to cover all types of claims that may be asserted against us or if our lessees fail to fulfill their indemnification obligations, we would be required to pay any amounts in excess of our insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third party service providers. If these service providers do not deliver the high level of service and support required in our business, we may lose customers and revenue. We rely on third parties to provide certain essential services on our behalf, including maintenance, ground handling and flight attendants. In certain locations, there may be very few sources, or sometimes only a single source, of supply for these services. If we are unable to effectively manage these third parties, they may provide inadequate levels of support which could harm our customer relationships and have an adverse impact on our operations and the results thereof. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of our contracted services, or an unexpected termination of those services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our aircraft are periodically deployed in potentially dangerous situations, which may result in harm to our passengers, employees or contractors and/or damage to our aircraft/cargo. Some of our aircraft are deployed in potentially dangerous locations and carry hazardous cargo incidental to the services we provide in support of our customers’ activities. Some areas through which our flight routes pass are subject to geopolitical instability, which increases the risk of death or injury to our passengers, employees or contractors or a loss of, or damage to, our aircraft and/or its cargo. While we maintain insurance to cover injury to our passengers, employees and contractors as well as the loss/damage of aircraft/cargo, except for limited situations, we do not have insurance against the loss arising from business interruption. It may be difficult to replace lost or substantially damaged aircraft due to the high capital requirements and long delivery lead times for new aircraft or to locate appropriate in-service aircraft for lease or sale. Any injury to passengers, employees or contractors or loss/damage of aircraft/cargo could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be adversely affected by a failure or disruption of our computer, communications or other technology systems. We are heavily and increasingly dependent on technology to operate our business. The computer and communications systems on which we rely could be disrupted due to various events, some of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment failures, software failures and computer viruses and hackers. We have taken certain steps to implement business resiliency to help reduce the risk of some of these potential disruptions. There can be no assurance, however, that the measures we have taken are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions or failures of these systems. Any substantial or repeated failure of these systems could impact our operations and customer service, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenues, and increased costs, and generally harm our business. Moreover, a failure of certain of our vital systems could limit our ability to operate our flights for an extended period of time, which would have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our ACMI Business We depend on a limited number of significant customers for our ACMI business, and the loss of one or more of such customers could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ACMI business depends on a limited number of customers, which has typically averaged between six and eight. In addition, as a percentage of our total operating revenue, Polar accounted for 17.8% in 2013, 16.5% in 2012 and 17.2% in 2011. We typically enter into long-term ACMI contracts with our customers. The terms of our existing contracts are scheduled to expire on a staggered basis. There is a risk that any one of our significant ACMI customers may not renew their ACMI contracts with us on favorable terms or at all, perhaps due to reasons beyond our control. For example, certain of our airline ACMI customers may not renew their ACMI contracts with us because they decide to exit the dedicated cargo business or as they take delivery of new aircraft in their own fleet. Select customers have the opportunity to terminate their long-term agreements in advance of the expiration date, following a significant amount of notice to allow for remarketing of the aircraft. Such agreements generally contain a significant early termination fee paid by the customer. Entering into ACMI contracts with new customers generally requires a long sales cycle, and as a result, if our ACMI contracts are not renewed, and there is a resulting delay in entering into new contracts, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our agreements with several ACMI customers require us to meet certain performance targets, including certain departure/arrival reliability standards. Failure to meet these performance targets could adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to derive the expected economic benefits from our transactions with certain ACMI customers depends substantially on our ability to successfully meet strict performance standards and deadlines for aircraft and ground operations, which become increasingly stringent over time. If we do not meet these requirements, we may not be able to achieve the projected revenues and profitability from these contracts, and we could be exposed to certain remedies, including termination of the BSA in the most extreme of circumstances, as described below. Risks Related to the BSA with DHL Our agreements with DHL confer certain termination rights to them which, if exercised or triggered, may result in our inability to realize the full benefits of the BSA with DHL. The BSA gives DHL the option to terminate the agreements for convenience by giving notice to us before the tenth or fifteenth anniversary of the agreement’s commencement date. Further, DHL has a right to terminate the BSA for cause following a specified management resolution process if we default on our performance or we are unable to perform for reasons beyond our control. If DHL exercises any of these termination rights, we would not be able to earn the revenues and profitability from these contracts. Risks Related to Our AMC Charter Business We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our AMC Charter business, and a substantial portion of these revenues have been generated pursuant to expansion flying, as opposed to fixed contract arrangements with the AMC. We expect the revenues from our AMC Charter business to continue to decline from current levels. As a percentage of our operating revenue, revenue derived from our AMC Charter business was approximately 21.5% in 2013, 29.7% in 2012 and 31.7% in 2011. Historically, the revenues derived from expansion flights for the AMC significantly exceeded the value of the fixed flight component of our AMC contract. 17 Table of Contents Future revenues and profitability from this business are expected to continue to decline from historic levels as a result of reduced AMC demand. Revenues and profitability from our AMC Charter business are derived from one-year contracts with the AMC. Our current AMC contract runs from October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2014. Changes in national and international political priorities can significantly affect the volume of our AMC Charter business. Any decrease in U.S. military activity could reduce our AMC Charter business. In addition, our share of the total AMC Charter business depends on several factors, including the total fleet size we commit to the CRAF program and the total number of aircraft deployed by our teaming arrangement partners and competitors in the program. The AMC also holds all carriers to certain on-time performance requirements as a percentage of flights flown and, as a result of reduced AMC demand, it may become more difficult to comply with those requirements. To the extent that we fail to meet those performance requirements or if we fail to pass bi-annual AMC audits, revenues and profitability from our AMC Charter business could decline through a suspension or termination of our AMC contract. Our revenues and profitability could also decline due to a reduction in the revenue rate we are paid by the AMC, a greater reliance by the AMC on its own fleet or a reduction in our allocation of AMC flying. Any reduction in our AMC flying could also negatively impact our Commercial Charter revenue from trips related to one-way AMC missions. We expect revenues and profitability from our AMC Charter business to continue to decline from current levels as the U.S. Military continues to withdraw troops from areas of conflict around the world. If we are unable to effectively deploy the resultant capacity, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our AMC Charter business is sensitive to teaming arrangements which affect our relative share of AMC flying and the associated profitability. If one of our team members reduces its commitments or withdraws from the program, and/or if other carriers on other teams commit additional aircraft to this program, our share of AMC flying may decline. In addition, any changes made to the commissions that we pay and/or receive for AMC flying or changes to the CRAF contracting mechanism could impact the revenues and/or profitability of this business. Each year, the AMC allocates its air capacity requirements to different teams of CRAF participating airlines based on a mobilization value point system that is determined by the amount and types of aircraft that each team of airlines pledges to the CRAF program. We participate in the CRAF program through a teaming arrangement with other airlines, led by FedEx. Our team is one of three major teams participating in the CRAF program during our current contract year. Several factors could adversely affect the amount of AMC flying that is allocated to us, including: • changes in the CRAF contracting mechanism; • the formation of new competing teaming arrangements; • the withdrawal of any of our team’s current partners, especially FedEx; • a reduction of the number of aircraft pledged to the CRAF program by us or other members of our team; or • increased participation of other carriers on other teams in the CRAF program. Any changes to the CRAF program that would result in a reduction in our share of, or profitability from, AMC flying could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The market for air cargo services is highly competitive and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose current customers or fail to attract new customers. We could also be adversely affected if a large number of long-haul freighter aircraft or freighter aircraft of different equipment types are introduced into the market. Each of the markets we participate in is highly competitive and fragmented. We offer a broad range of aviation services and our competitors vary by geographic market and type of service and include other international and domestic contract carriers, regional and national ground handling and logistics companies, internal cargo units of major airlines and third party cargo providers. Competition in the air cargo and transportation market is influenced by several key factors, including quality, price and availability of assets and services. Some of our competitors have filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 and have emerged or could emerge from bankruptcy in a stronger, more competitive position. Regulatory requirements to operate in the U.S. domestic air cargo market have been reduced, facilitating the entry into domestic markets by non-U.S. air cargo companies. If we were to lose any major customers and/or fail to attract customers, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, an increase in the number of aircraft in the freight market could cause Yields and rates to fall and/or could negatively affect our customer base. If either circumstance were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations and failure to comply with these regulations in the U.S. and abroad, or the adoption of any new laws, policies or regulations or changes to such regulations, may have an adverse effect on our business. Our operations and our lessees’ operations are subject to complex aviation and transportation laws and regulations, including Title 49 of the U.S. Code, under which the DOT and the FAA exercise regulatory authority over air carriers. In addition, our business activities and our lessees’ business activities fall within the jurisdiction of various other federal, state, local and foreign authorities, including the U.S. Department of Defense, the TSA, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. EPA. In addition, other countries in which we operate have similar regulatory regimes to which we are subjected. These laws and regulations may require us to maintain and comply with the terms of a wide variety of certificates, permits, licenses, noise abatement standards, maintenance and other requirements and our failure to do so could result in substantial fines or other sanctions. These U.S. and foreign aviation regulatory agencies have the authority to modify, amend, suspend or revoke the authority and licenses issued to us for failure to comply with provisions of law or applicable regulations and may impose civil or criminal penalties for violations of applicable rules and regulations. Such fines or sanctions, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our mode of conducting business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, U.S. and foreign governmental authorities may adopt, amend or interpret accounting standards, tax laws, regulations or treaties that could require us to take additional and potentially costly compliance steps or result in the grounding of some of our aircraft, which could increase our operating costs or result in a loss of revenues. International aviation is increasingly subject to requirements imposed or proposed by foreign governments. This is especially true in the areas of transportation security, aircraft noise and emissions control, and greenhouse gas emissions. These may be duplicative of, or incompatible with U.S. government requirements, resulting in increased compliance efforts and expense. Even standing alone, foreign government requirements can be burdensome. Foreign governments also place temporal and other restrictions on the ability of their own airlines to use aircraft operated by other airlines. For example, as a result of EU regulations finalized in 2008, EU airlines generally secure aircraft capacity from U.S. and other non-EU airlines for a maximum of two seven-month periods. This restriction could negatively impact our revenue and profitability. Additionally, the EASA is considering a proposal to require EU airlines to establish to the satisfaction of their regulatory agencies that the 19 Table of Contents aircraft capacity secured from and operated by U.S. and other non-EU airlines meet internationally set standards and additional EASA requirements. These and other similar regulatory developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Initiatives to address global climate change may adversely affect our business and increase our costs. To address climate change, governments continue to pursue various means to reduce aviation-related greenhouse gas emissions. Measures that are ultimately adopted could result in substantial costs for us. In October 2013, the ICAO reached a non-binding agreement to address climate change by developing global-market-based measures to assist in achieving carbon neutral growth beginning in 2020. ICAO will direct the effort in the hope of securing a definitive agreement in 2016. Additionally, the EU continues to pursue a parallel track through its ETS. Under the EU mechanism, airlines serving the EU must report flight activity on an ongoing basis. Following the end of every year, the legislation requires each airline to tender the number of “carbon emissions allowances” corresponding to the carbon emissions generated by its flight activity during the year. If the airline’s flight activity during the year has produced carbon emissions exceeding the number of carbon emissions allowances that it has been awarded, the airline must acquire carbon emissions allowances from other airlines in the open market. For 2013, in recognition of ICAO’s ongoing work, the EU suspended application of the ETS except as it applies to intra-EU flying. The suspension expired at the end of 2013. Unless the EU acts, the ETS will be applicable to all flights to or from Europe in 2014. Proposals have been made to limit applicability of the ETS during 2014, but there can be no assurance that they will be adopted or, if adopted, that they will be as favorable to airlines as the 2013 ETS suspension. In the United States, various constituencies have continued to advocate for controls on greenhouse gas emissions. Previously, both houses of the U.S. Congress passed legislation to impose a carbon-related tax on fuel sold to airlines and other entities. However, a bill has not been signed into law. Also, at the urging of States and environmental organizations, the EPA has taken steps that could lead to EPA regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft. Regardless of the outcome of these activities, it is possible that some type of climate change measures ultimately will be imposed in a manner adversely affecting airlines. The costs of complying with potential new environmental laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The airline industry is subject to numerous security regulations and rules that increase costs. Imposition of more stringent regulations and rules than those that currently exist could materially increase our costs. The TSA has increased security requirements in response to increased levels of terrorist activity, and has adopted comprehensive new regulations governing air cargo transportation, including all-cargo services, in such areas as cargo screening and security clearances for individuals with access to cargo. Additional measures, including a requirement to screen cargo, have been proposed, which, if adopted, may have an adverse impact on our ability to efficiently process cargo and would increase our costs and those of our customers. The cost of compliance with increasingly stringent regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future operations might be constrained by new FAA flight and duty time rules. In 2009, following expressions of concern about pilot fatigue on certain long-range flights, the FAA convened an Aviation Rulemaking Committee (“ARC”) comprised of various aviation stakeholders to recommend changes to the flight and duty time rules applicable to pilots. This was followed in 2010 by FAA issuance of a notice of proposed rulemaking containing new proposed flight and duty time rules. In December 2011, following the completion of a lengthy rulemaking process intended to reduce pilot fatigue, the FAA adopted a final rule containing new flight and duty time limitations and rest requirements. The rule went into effect in January 2014, resulting in more stringent scheduling requirements for pilots operating our passenger flights. 20 Table of Contents Finding that the costs of applying the new rule to all-cargo flights would greatly exceed the benefits, the FAA decided not to apply the rule to all-cargo operations. The Independent Pilots Association, representing UPS pilots, filed a judicial appeal of the FAA decision to exclude all-cargo operations from the rule. The appeal was suspended to allow the FAA to complete revisions to its cost-benefit analysis but remains pending. Legislation to require the FAA to apply the rule to all-cargo operations has also been introduced in Congress. Application of the new flight and duty time rule to all-cargo operations pursuant to a court, FAA or Congressional directive would result in materially increased crew costs, as well as air carriers that predominantly fly nighttime and long-haul flights, and could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition by limiting crew scheduling flexibility and increasing operating costs, especially with respect to long-haul flights. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK U.S. citizenship requirements may limit common stock voting rights. Under U.S. federal law and DOT requirements, we must be owned and actually controlled by “citizens of the United States,” a statutorily defined term requiring, among other things, that not more than 25% of our issued and outstanding voting stock be owned and controlled, directly or indirectly, by non-U.S. citizens. The DOT periodically conducts airline citizenship reviews and, if it finds that this requirement is not met, may require adjustment of the rights attendant to the airline’s issued shares. As one means to effect compliance, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide that the failure of non-U.S. citizens to register their shares on a separate stock record, which we refer to as the “Foreign Stock Record,” results in a suspension of their voting rights. Our by-laws further limit the number of shares of our capital stock that may be registered on the Foreign Stock Record to 25% of our issued and outstanding shares. Registration on the Foreign Stock Record is made in chronological order based on the date we receive a written request for registration. As a result, if a non-U.S. citizen acquires shares of our common stock and does not or is not able to register those shares on our Foreign Stock Record, they may lose their ability to vote those shares. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law may render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire our company, even if such acquisition may be believed to be favorable to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions may also discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock share price has been subject to fluctuations in value. The trading price of our common shares is subject to material fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including quarterly variations in our operating results, conditions of the air freight market and global economic conditions or other events and factors that are beyond our control. In the past, following periods of significant volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has been instituted against these companies in some circumstances. If this type of litigation were instituted against us following a period of volatility in the market price for our common stock, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 