Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Discovery, Development and Commercialization of Drug Products Zalicus’s approach to the discovery and clinical development of drugs is unproven and may never lead to commercially viable products. Zalicus’s various approaches to drug discovery and development using our ion channel expertise or our cHTS technology platform are complex and unproven. Previously unrecognized or unexpected defects in or limitations to Zalicus’s drug discovery technologies or drug development strategies may emerge, which we may also be unable to overcome or mitigate. None of the product candidates identified or developed to date through the application of Zalicus’s business model and drug discovery technologies, has been effective in Phase 2 clinical trials, been approved by any regulatory agency for commercial sale or been commercialized. All of our product candidates are in an early stage of development and their risk of failure is high. The data supporting Zalicus’s drug discovery and development programs, including the product candidate Z944, is derived from either laboratory and pre-clinical studies and limited early stage clinical trials that were not designed to be statistically significant. We cannot predict when or if any one of Zalicus’s product candidates will prove effective or safe in humans or will receive regulatory approval. If we are unable to discover or successfully develop drugs that are effective and safe in humans, we will not have a viable business. Our future success depends on the successful development of product candidates, such as Z944, identified by our ion channel drug discovery technology. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs that modulate ion channels to treat pain conditions is limited, and many companies with more resources than us have not been able to successfully develop drugs that modulate ion channels to treat pain conditions. For these and other reasons, Zalicus’s approach to drug discovery and development may not be successful and Zalicus’s current business model may not generate viable products or revenue. Even if Zalicus’s approach is theoretically viable, we may not complete the significant research and development or obtain the financial resources and personnel required to further develop and apply Zalicus’s discovery technology, advance promising product candidates into and through clinical trials, and obtain the regulatory approvals required for commercialization around the world. We depend almost entirely on the success of one product candidate, Z944, which is still in Phase 1 clinical development. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, Z944 or any of our other product candidates. We currently have only one product candidate, Z944, in clinical development, and our business depends almost entirely on its successful clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization. We currently have no drug products for sale and may never be able to develop marketable drug products. Z944, which we currently plan to evaluate a modified-release formation of in a Phase 1 pharmacokinetic and safety study in the first half of 2014, will require substantial additional clinical development, testing, and regulatory approval before we are permitted to commence its commercialization. Our other product candidates are still in pre-clinical development stages. None of our product candidates have advanced into a pivotal study, and it may be years before such a study is initiated, if ever. The clinical trials of our product candidates are, and the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates will be, subject to extensive and rigorous review and regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States and in other countries where we intend to test and, if approved, market any product candidate. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any product candidate, we must successfully meet a number of critical developmental milestones, including: • demonstrating through clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective in patients for the intended indication; • developing dosages that will be tolerated, safe and effective; • determining the appropriate delivery mechanism; 21 Table of Contents • demonstrating that the product candidate formulation will be stable for commercially reasonable time periods; and • completing the development and scale-up to permit manufacture of our product candidates in commercial quantities and at acceptable prices. The time necessary to achieve these developmental milestones for any individual product candidate is long and uncertain, and we may not successfully complete these milestones for Z944 or any other product candidates that we may develop. We have not yet completed development of any product. We may not be able to finalize the design or formulation of any product candidate. In addition, we may select components, solvents, excipients or other ingredients to include in our product candidates that have not been previously approved for use in pharmaceutical products, which may require us to perform additional studies and may delay clinical testing and regulatory approval of our product candidates. We are continuing to test and develop our product candidates and may explore possible design or formulation changes to address safety, efficacy, manufacturing efficiency and performance issues. We may not be able to complete development of any product candidates that will be safe and effective and that will have a commercially reasonable treatment and storage period. If we are unable to complete development of Z944, or any other product candidates that we may develop, we will not be able to commercialize and earn revenue from them. Negative or inconclusive results from our product candidates may adversely affect our business and financial prospects. We are planning to advance clinical development of our most advanced product candidate Z944 in a Phase 2 clinical study. Positive results from our prior preclinical assessments of Z944 and Phase 1b clinical trials of Z944 may not necessarily be predictive of the results from future Phase 2 clinical trials of Z944. Many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including Zalicus, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials after achieving positive results in early stage development, and we cannot be certain that we will not face similar setbacks. These setbacks have been caused by, among other things, failure to achieve clinical trial endpoints with statistical significance or at all due to greater than expected placebo effects, insufficient statistical powering of clinical trials, selection of incorrect dosages of a product candidate to study, or selection of inappropriate indications or patient populations to study. Moreover, pre-clinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for those product candidates. If we fail to produce positive results in our planned clinical trials of Z944, the development timeline and regulatory approval and commercialization prospects for our most advanced product candidate, and, correspondingly, our business and financial prospects, may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to initiate and complete clinical trials for our product candidates. Conducting clinical studies for any of our product candidates requires finding appropriate clinical sites and clinical investigators, securing approvals for such studies from the independent review board at each such site and local regulatory authorities and enrolling sufficient numbers of patients on a timely basis. We may not be able to arrange for appropriate clinical trials for our product candidates, secure the necessary approvals or enroll the necessary number of participants on a timely basis. We cannot guarantee that outside clinical investigators conducting clinical trials will conduct them in compliance with applicable United States or foreign regulations or the relevant clinical trial protocol. Clinical sites may fail the FDA’s or other regulatory agencies’ inspections or reviews, and our trials could be halted for these or other reasons. Zalicus contracts with third-party clinical research organizations and other parties to conduct virtually all aspects of Zalicus’s Phase 2 and other Phase 1 clinical trials for Zalicus’s product candidates, including Z944. These organizations may not adequately or completely perform their contractual obligations regarding the clinical trials, or may not diligently or completely perform their tasks with respect to clinical trials under their supervision. As a result of these risks, our clinical 22 Table of Contents trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, which could delay the receipt of clinical results for our product candidates, which could delay, impede or stop the development, regulatory approval or successful commercialization of our product candidates. We may not be able to create commercially viable pharmaceutical formulations of our product candidates. We have developed or are developing proprietary formulations of our product candidate Z944. Developing such proprietary formulations is costly and difficult, and we have limited experience in developing formulations ourselves. We are relying on and expect to rely on third-party suppliers to develop and test the pharmaceutical formulations of Zalicus’s product candidates as well as manufacture materials for clinical trials of our product candidates. These third parties may not be successful in developing or manufacturing these novel formulations of our product candidates or may experience delays in doing so that could delay clinical trials, and ultimately our ability to obtain approval of Zalicus’s product candidates, including our product candidate and Z944. Defects in the formulation, delivery method or packaging of any of Zalicus’s product candidates could delay our ability to conduct clinical trials or require us to repeat clinical trials using a revised formulation, delivery method or packaging. If we are unsuccessful in creating commercially viable formulations, delivery methods or packaging, we may never generate product revenue or be profitable. We may be unable to find safe and effective doses for Zalicus’s product candidates without extensive clinical trials and substantial additional costs, if at all. We must select the doses, including the amount, frequency and duration, of the active pharmaceutical ingredients included in Zalicus’s product candidates. Our clinical trials in humans may show that the doses we select based on Zalicus’s in vitro screening, animal testing or early clinical trials do not achieve the desired therapeutic effect in humans, or achieve this effect only in a small part of the population. Even if the doses we select show efficacy in humans, the resulting doses of active pharmaceutical ingredients may not have acceptable safety profiles for targeted indications. Furthermore, even if we believe that pre-clinical and clinical studies adequately demonstrate that the doses we select for Zalicus’s product candidates are safe and effective in humans, the FDA or other regulatory agencies in foreign jurisdictions may conclude that the clinical trials do not support this conclusion. We may be required to conduct additional clinical studies and provide more evidence substantiating the safety and effectiveness of the doses selected in a significant patient population. If we need to adjust the doses of our product candidates, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials. We may also be required to make different doses available for different types of patients. All of this may result in significant delays and additional costs or prevent commercialization of Zalicus’s product candidates. We may fail to select or capitalize on the most scientifically, clinically or commercially promising or profitable product candidates. We may make incorrect determinations as to which product candidates should proceed to initial clinical trials, later stage clinical development and potential commercialization. Our decisions to allocate finite research, management and financial resources toward particular product candidates or therapeutic areas may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources from better opportunities. Similarly, our decisions to delay or terminate drug development programs may also be incorrect and could cause us to miss valuable opportunities. If we undertake business combinations, acquisitions or similar strategic transactions, they may dilute stockholder value, cause us to incur increased transaction costs, disrupt our business, divert management’s attention or be difficult to integrate. On a regular basis, we consider various business combination transactions, collaborations, license agreements and strategic transactions with third parties, including transactions which may result in us acquiring, 23 Table of Contents or being acquired by, a third party. The consummation or performance of any future business combination, collaboration or strategic transaction may involve risks, such as: • a change of control of our company if a transaction results in us being acquired by a third party; • additional dilution to our existing stockholders if we use our common stock as consideration for any acquisitions; • higher than expected transaction costs; • diversion of managerial resources from day-to-day operations; • challenges associated with integrating acquired technologies and operations of acquired companies; • exposure to unforeseen liabilities; • misjudgment with respect to value, return on investment or strategic fit; and • difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation and retention of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations;. As a result of these risks, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of any such strategic transaction. If we are unsuccessful in completing, including because we are unable to obtain any required stockholder approval, or integrating any acquisition, we may be required to reevaluate that component of our strategy only after we have incurred substantial expenses and devoted significant management time and resources in seeking to complete and integrate the acquisition. In addition, even if we successfully divest some or all of our assets in a strategic transaction with a third party, the price paid by the third party for those assets may be at a significant discount compared to their potential value if we had instead developed and commercialized such assets ourselves. A material component of our business strategy is to establish and maintain collaborative relationships to fund research, development and commercialization of product candidates by us or by our collaborators. If we or any collaborator terminates or fails to perform any obligations under our collaboration agreements, the development and commercialization of product candidates under these agreements could be delayed or terminated. A material component of our business strategy is to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and to fund research development and commercialization of drug products for the treatment of diseases. We have established collaborative royalty and milestone-based agreements with Sanofi for Prednisporin and funded discovery research agreements with Novartis and others. If any of our product candidates continue to advance through preclinical or clinical development, we intend to continue to seek collaborative relationships to obtain discovery or clinical development funding and expertise, as well as domestic or international sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. The process of establishing collaborative relationships is difficult, time-consuming and involves significant uncertainty. Moreover, it may be difficult to maintain or perform under collaboration arrangements, as our funding resources may be limited or our collaborators may seek to renegotiate or terminate their relationships due to unsatisfactory research or clinical results, changes in the competitive landscape for a particular therapeutic area, a change in business strategy, a change of control or other reasons. If we or any collaborator fails to fulfill any responsibilities in a timely manner, or at all, our research, clinical development or commercialization efforts related to that collaboration could be delayed or terminated. Additionally it may become necessary for us to assume responsibility for activities that would otherwise have been the responsibility of our collaborator. Further, if we are unable to establish and maintain collaborative relationships on acceptable terms, we may have to delay or discontinue further development of one or more of our product candidates, undertake development and commercialization activities at our own expense or find alternative sources of funding. 24 Table of Contents Our collaborations typically involve a complex allocation of responsibilities, costs and benefits and provide for milestone payments to us upon the achievement of specified clinical and regulatory milestones. Our collaborations also may provide us with royalty-based revenue if product candidates are successfully commercialized. Under the Sanofi, Novartis and other collaborations, we will rely on our collaborators to provide resources to develop new product candidates and to potentially achieve these milestones and commercialize any new products. We may not be able to achieve any of the milestones provided in the Novartis, Sanofi or other collaboration agreements or derive any license or royalty revenue with respect to our collaborations. We have no sales or distribution capabilities and may not obtain the collaboration, development, commercialization, manufacturing or other third-party relationships required to develop, commercialize and manufacture some or all of our product candidates. We have no sales or distribution capabilities and lack many of the internal resources, capabilities and experience necessary to clinically develop, formulate, manufacture, test, market and sell pharmaceuticals. As a result, to succeed in our business plan, we will be dependent on the efforts of third parties. We depend on collaborators, licensees, clinical research organizations and other third parties to formulate product candidates and to conduct clinical trials for all of our product candidates. We also rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture all clinical trial supplies of our product candidates. Our third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties performing their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable governmental regulations, including problems involving: inconsistent production yields; poor quality control and assurance or inadequate process controls; and lack of compliance with regulations set forth by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies. We typically engage only a single contract manufacturer to make any product candidate which can exacerbate the impact of any such difficulties. We expect to be able to develop and commercialize many of our product candidates only with the participation of pharmaceutical or biotechnology company collaborators or by out-licensing rights to the product candidates. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and others may be reluctant to collaborate with Zalicus or to license rights to Zalicus’s product candidates due to the unproven nature of Zalicus’s drug discovery and development approach, concerns regarding the pricing of and reimbursement for Zalicus’s product candidates if they are successfully developed, or other factors. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully negotiate agreements for relationships with collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical investigators, manufacturers and other third parties on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain these agreements, we may not be able to clinically develop, formulate, manufacture, test, obtain regulatory approvals for or commercialize our product candidates. We expect to expend substantial funds and management time and effort to enter into relationships with these third parties and, if we successfully enter into such relationships, to manage these relationships. However, we cannot control the amount or timing of resources our contract partners will devote to our research and development programs, product candidates or potential product candidates, and we cannot guarantee that these parties will succeed in a timely fashion, if at all. We may not be able to gain market acceptance of our product candidates, which would prevent us from becoming profitable. We cannot be certain that any of our product candidates, if approved, will gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors, pharmaceutical companies or others. Demonstrating the safety and efficacy of our product candidates and obtaining regulatory approvals will not guarantee future revenue. Sales of medical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. Governments and private insurers closely examine medical products to determine whether they should be covered by reimbursement and if so, the level of reimbursement that will apply. We cannot be certain that third-party payors will sufficiently reimburse sales of our products, or enable us 25 Table of Contents to sell our products, if approved, at profitable prices. Sales of medical products also depend on physicians’ willingness to prescribe the treatment, which is likely to be based on a determination by these physicians that the products are safe, therapeutically effective and cost-effective. We cannot predict whether physicians, other healthcare providers, government agencies or private insurers will determine our products are safe, therapeutically effective and cost effective relative to competing treatments. Disputes under key agreements could delay or prevent development or commercialization of our product candidates. Any agreements we have or may enter into with third parties, such as collaboration, license, formulation supplier, manufacturing, testing, clinical research organization or clinical trial agreements, may give rise to disputes regarding the rights and obligations of the parties to such agreements. Disagreements could develop over rights to ownership or use of intellectual property, the scope and direction of research and development, the approach for regulatory approvals or commercialization strategy. We intend to conduct research programs in a range of therapeutic areas, but our pursuit of these opportunities could result in conflicts with the other parties to these agreements who may be developing or selling pharmaceuticals or conducting other activities in these same therapeutic areas. Any disputes or commercial conflicts could lead to the termination of these agreements, delay progress of our product development programs, compromise our ability to renew agreements or obtain future agreements, lead to the loss of intellectual property rights or result in costly litigation. Risks Related to Financial Results, Need for Additional Financing and Debt Arrangements We may be unable to raise the substantial additional capital that we will need to sustain our operations. We will need substantial additional funds to support our planned operations. Based on current operating plans, we expect our resources to be sufficient to fund our operations into the first half of 2015. We may, however, raise additional funds before that time if our research and development expenses exceed current expectations or our collaboration funding is less than current assumptions or expectations. This could occur for many reasons, including: • our product candidates require more extensive clinical or pre-clinical testing, clinical trials take longer to complete than we currently expect or our clinical trials are not successful; • we advance more of our product candidates than expected into costly later stage clinical trials; • we advance more of our pre-clinical product candidates than expected into early stage clinical trials; • our revenue generating collaboration agreements are terminated; • we determine or are required to conduct more discovery research than expected to develop additional product candidates; • some or all of our product candidates fail in clinical or pre-clinical studies or prove to be less commercially promising than we expect or we are forced to seek additional product candidates; • we are required, or consider it advisable, to acquire or license rights from one or more third parties; • we determine to enter into a business combination or acquire or license rights to additional product candidates or new technologies. While we expect to seek additional funding through public or private financings, we may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of any financings may be dilutive to, or otherwise adversely affect, holders of Zalicus common stock. We may also seek additional funds through arrangements with collaborators or others. These arrangements would generally require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products, and we may not be able to enter into such agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. The arrangements also may include issuances of equity, which may also be dilutive to, or otherwise adversely affect, holders of Zalicus common stock. There can be no assurance that we will be 26 Table of Contents able to access equity or credit markets in order to finance our operations or expand development programs for any of our product candidates, or that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in economies. We may also have to scale back or further restructure our operations. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, we may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of our research or development programs. Zalicus has a history of operating losses. We expect to incur significant operating losses and may never be profitable. Zalicus common stock is a highly speculative investment. Zalicus commenced operations in March 2000 and has no approved products of its own and has generated no direct product revenue. Zalicus has incurred operating losses since Zalicus’s inception in 2000. As of December 31, 2013, Zalicus had an accumulated deficit of $379.6 million. Our cash and cash equivalents are sufficient to fund operations into the first half of 2015. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant resources to fund research and development of our product candidates and to enhance our drug discovery technologies. We expect to incur substantial operating losses over the next several years due to our ongoing research, development, pre-clinical testing, and clinical trial activities. As a result, our accumulated deficit will continue to increase. Our product candidates are in the early stages of development and may never result in any revenue. We will not be able to generate product revenue unless and until one of our product candidates successfully completes clinical trials and receives regulatory approval. We may seek to obtain revenue from collaboration or licensing agreements with third parties. Our current collaboration and license agreements may not provide us with material, sustainable ongoing future revenue, and we may not be able to enter into additional collaboration agreements. Even if we eventually generate product revenues, we may never be profitable, and if we ever achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it. Risks Related to Regulatory Approvals The regulatory approval process is costly and lengthy and we may not be able to successfully obtain all required regulatory approvals. The pre-clinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing, testing and labeling of pharmaceuticals and medical devices are all subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities and agencies in the United States and other countries. We or our collaborators must obtain regulatory approval for product candidates before marketing or selling any of them. The approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. It is not possible to predict how long the approval processes of the FDA or any other applicable federal or foreign regulatory authority or agency for any of our products will take or whether any such approvals ultimately will be granted. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the drug approval process, and positive results in pre-clinical testing or early phases of clinical studies offer no assurance of success in later phases of the approval process. Generally, pre-clinical and clinical testing of products can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, approvals could prevent or adversely affect the marketing of our products or our collaborator’s products and our ability to generate product revenue. The risks associated with the approval process include delays or rejections in the regulatory approval process based on the failure of clinical or other data to meet expectations, or the failure of the product or medical device to meet a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy and quality. In addition, regulatory approval, if obtained, may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. We or our collaborators may delay, suspend or terminate clinical trials to obtain marketing authorization of any of our product candidates or products at any time for reasons including: • ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of clinical trials; 27 Table of Contents • delays or the inability to obtain required approvals from institutional review boards or other governing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling patients and volunteers into clinical trials; • lower than anticipated retention rates of patients and volunteers in clinical trials; • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive or negative results or poorly executed testing; • lack of effectiveness of a product candidate in other clinical trials; • lack of sufficient funds for further clinical development; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidate materials or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials; • unfavorable regulatory inspection of a manufacturing, testing, labeling or packaging facility for drug substance or drug product; • unfavorable regulatory inspection and review of a clinical or pre-clinical trial site or records of any clinical or pre-clinical investigation; • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects or serious adverse safety events experienced by participants in clinical trials or by patients following commercialization; or • the placement of a clinical hold on a product candidate in an ongoing clinical trial. Positive or timely results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure positive or timely results in late stage clinical trials or product approval by the FDA or any other regulatory authority. Product candidates that show positive pre-clinical or early clinical results often fail in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities is susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approvals. We may not be able to conduct clinical trials at preferred sites, enlist clinical investigators, enroll sufficient numbers of patients, or begin or successfully complete clinical trials in a timely fashion, if at all. Any failure to perform may delay or terminate the trials. Our current clinical trials may be insufficient to demonstrate that our potential products are active, safe, or effective and as a result we may decide to abandon further development of such product candidates. Additional clinical trials may be required if clinical trial results are negative or inconclusive, which will require us to incur additional costs and significant delays. If we do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we will not be able to generate product revenues and will not become profitable. We may encounter significant delays in the regulatory process that could result in excessive costs that may prevent us from continuing to develop our product candidates. In addition, the failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, product recalls, withdrawal of product approval, mandatory restrictions or other actions that could impair our ability to conduct our business. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for marketing Zalicus’s product candidates, if we fail to comply with continuing regulatory requirements, we could lose regulatory approvals, and our business would be adversely affected. The FDA and other regulatory authorities continue to review therapeutic products even after they receive initial approval. If we or our collaborators receive approval to commercialize any product candidates, the manufacturing, testing, marketing, sale and distribution of these drugs will be subject to continuing regulation, including compliance with quality systems regulations, good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting requirements and prohibitions on promoting a product for unapproved uses. Furthermore, heightened Congressional scrutiny on the adequacy of the FDA’s drug approval process and the agency’s efforts to assure the safety of marketed drugs has resulted in the enactment of legislation, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007, addressing, among other things, drug safety issues. This law provides the FDA with expanded authority over 28 Table of Contents drug products after approval, including the authority to require post-approval studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies, or REMS, approved by the FDA. The FDA’s exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product candidate development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, increased costs to assure compliance with new post-approval regulatory requirements, and potential restrictions on the sale of approved products, which could lead to lower product revenues to us or our collaborators. Enforcement actions resulting from failure to comply with government requirements could result in fines, suspension of approvals, withdrawal of approvals, recalls of products, product seizures, operating restrictions, and civil or criminal penalties. These enforcement actions could affect the manufacturing, testing, marketing, sale and distribution of our products. FDA approval of our drug candidates would subject Zalicus and our collaborators to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, such as continued safety reporting requirements, and we and our collaborators may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations or new regulations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize our drug candidates. Any regulatory approvals that we or our collaborators receive for our drug candidates may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping for any drug candidate the FDA may approve, is subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, including but not limited to adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or the discovery that adverse events previously observed in pre-clinical research or clinical trials that were believed to be minor actually constitute much more serious problems, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the drug, and could include withdrawal of the drug from the market. The FDA’s policies may change, and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates or may adversely impact the commercialization of our product candidates. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, including compliance with a required REMS program, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Any of these events could prevent us from marketing our drug candidates and our business could suffer accordingly. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. Legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system in the United States and foreign jurisdictions may affect our ability to profitably sell our products, if approved. Our and our collaborators’ ability to commercialize our future products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. The continuing efforts of the United States and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for our products which we believe are fair, and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability. Specifically, in both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The Affordable Health Choices Act was enacted in 2009 and Congress is considering a number of proposals that are intended to reduce or limit the growth of health care costs and which could significantly transform the market for pharmaceuticals products. We expect further federal and state proposals and health care reforms to continue to be proposed by legislators, which could limit the prices that can be charged for the products we develop and may limit our commercial opportunity. In the United States, the 29 Table of Contents Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, also called the Medicare Modernization Act, or MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for drugs. In addition, this legislation provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. As a result of this legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The continuing efforts of government and other third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may limit our commercial opportunity. It will be time consuming and expensive for us or our partners to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicare and private payors. Our product candidates may not be considered cost effective, and government and third-party private health insurance coverage and reimbursement may not be available to patients for any of our future products or sufficient to allow us or our collaborators to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by the MMA and additional prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of this legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we or any potential collaborators could receive for any of our future products and could adversely affect our profitability. In some foreign countries, including major markets in the European Union and Japan, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take 6 to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we or our collaborators may be required to conduct a clinical study that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidates to other available therapies. Such pharmacoeconomic studies can be costly and the results uncertain. Our business could be harmed if reimbursement of our or our collaborators’ products are unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels. Federal laws or regulations on drug importation could make lower cost versions of our future products available, which could adversely affect our revenues, if any. The prices of some drugs are lower in other countries than in the United States because of government regulation and market conditions. Under current law, importation of drugs into the United States is generally not permitted unless the drugs are approved in the United States and the entity that holds that approval consents to the importation. Various proposals have been advanced to permit the importation of drugs from other countries to provide lower cost alternatives to the products available in the United States. In addition, the MMA requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promulgate regulations for drug reimportation from Canada into the United States under some circumstances, including when the drugs are sold at a lower price in Canada than in the United States. If the laws or regulations are changed to permit the importation of drugs into the United States in circumstances not now permitted, such a change could have an adverse effect on our business by making available lower priced alternatives to our future products. Failure to obtain regulatory and pricing approvals in foreign jurisdictions could delay or prevent commercialization of our products abroad. If we succeed in developing any products, we intend to market them in the European Union and other foreign jurisdictions. In order to do so, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous 30 Table of Contents and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval abroad may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We and our collaborators may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market outside the United States. The failure to obtain these approvals could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are successful at obtaining these approvals, regulatory agencies in foreign countries, where the pricing of prescription drugs is controlled by the government, could determine pricing for Zalicus’s products in a manner adverse to us. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our success depends upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our products and technologies. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property, including our proprietary products or product candidates. We intend to apply for patents with claims covering our products, product candidates, technologies and processes, when and where we deem it appropriate to do so and plan to take other steps to protect our intellectual property. We have applied for patent protection covering our clinical and pre-clinical product candidates in the United States, and some, but not all, foreign countries. In countries where we have not and do not seek patent protection, third parties may be able to manufacture and sell our products without our permission, and we may be unable to stop them from doing so. Similar to other biotechnology companies, our patent position is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and other biotechnology companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending their proprietary rights in non-United States jurisdictions. Whether filed in the United States or abroad, our patent applications may be challenged or may fail to result in issued patents. In addition, our existing patents and any future patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing or commercializing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop or commercialize similar or alternative technologies or drugs, or design around our patents. Our patents may be challenged, invalidated or fail to provide any competitive advantages. The United States Patent and Trademark Office and similar agencies in foreign jurisdictions may not agree with our view that our combination product candidates are patentable or novel and non-obvious, and on this basis may deny patent protection. Even if we receive patent protection, others, may attempt to invalidate our patent or trade secret rights. Even if our patent or trade secret rights are not directly challenged, disputes among third parties could lead to the weakening or invalidation of intellectual property rights. If we do not obtain or are unable to maintain adequate patent or trade secret protection for products in the United States, competitors could duplicate them without repeating the extensive testing that we will be required to undertake to obtain approval of the products by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Regardless of any patent protection, under the current statutory framework the FDA is prohibited by law from approving any generic version of any of Zalicus’s product candidates for five years after it has approved Zalicus’s product candidates. Upon the expiration of that period, or if that time period is altered, the FDA could approve a generic version of Zalicus’s product unless we have patent protection sufficient to enforce our rights. Without sufficient patent protection, the applicant for a generic version of Zalicus’s product would be required only to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that its product is bioequivalent to Zalicus’s product and would not have to repeat the studies that we conducted to demonstrate that the product is safe and effective. In the absence of adequate patent protection in other countries, competitors may similarly be able to obtain regulatory approval of products that duplicate Zalicus’s products. 31 Table of Contents We may not be able to develop or commercialize our product candidates due to intellectual property rights held by third parties. If a third party holds a patent to a formulation technology related to Zalicus’s planned formulation of a product candidate, we may not be able to develop or commercialize such product candidates without first obtaining a license to such patent, or waiting for the patent to expire. Our business will be harmed if we are unable to use the optimal formulation of our product candidates. This may occur because the formulations or methods of use are covered by one or more third-party patents, and a license to such patents is unavailable or is only available on terms that are unacceptable. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In our activities, we rely substantially upon proprietary materials, information, trade secrets and know-how to conduct our research and development activities, and to attract and retain collaborators, licensees and customers. We take steps to protect our proprietary rights and information, including the use of confidentiality and other agreements with our employees and consultants and in our academic and commercial relationships. However, these steps may be inadequate, agreements may be violated, or there may be no adequate remedy available for a violation of an agreement. Our proprietary information may be inadvertently disclosed or we may lose the protection of our trade secrets. Our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require substantial time and money to resolve. Unfavorable outcomes in these proceedings could limit our intellectual property rights and our activities. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, including any patents issued to us. If a competitor or collaborator files a patent application claiming technology also invented by us, in order to protect our rights, we may have to participate in an expensive and time consuming interference proceeding before the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We cannot guarantee that our product candidates will be free of claims by third parties alleging that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technologies without authorization and they may resort to litigation to attempt to enforce their rights. Third parties may have or obtain patents in the future and claim that the use of our technology or any of our product candidates infringes their patents. We may not be able to develop or commercialize product candidates because of patent protection others have. Our business will be harmed if we cannot obtain a necessary or desirable license, can obtain such a license only on terms we consider to be unattractive or unacceptable, or if we are unable to redesign our product candidates or processes to avoid actual or potential patent or other intellectual property infringement. Our efforts to obtain, protect and defend our patent and other intellectual property rights, whether we are successful or not, may require us to incur substantial costs, including the diversion of management and technical personnel. An unfavorable ruling in patent or intellectual property litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to cease developing, manufacturing or selling the affected products or using the affected processes, require us to license the disputed rights from third parties, or result in awards of substantial damages against us. In addition, defending patent or other intellectual property litigation, whether we are successful or not, can be very expensive and may require us to incur substantial costs, including the diversion of management and technical personnel. During the course of any patent litigation, there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors regard these announcements as negative, the market price of Zalicus common stock may decline. General proclamations or statements by key public figures may also have a negative impact on the perceived value of our intellectual property. 32 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any intellectual property infringement action, will be able to obtain a license to any third-party intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, successfully develop non-infringing alternatives on a timely basis, or license non-infringing alternatives, if any exist, on commercially reasonable terms. Any significant intellectual property impediment to our ability to develop and commercialize our products could seriously harm our business and prospects. Risks Related to the Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Industry Our industry is highly competitive and our competitors and potential competitors may develop products and technologies that make ours less attractive or obsolete. The development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products is highly competitive. Many companies, universities, and research organizations developing competing product candidates have greater resources and significantly greater experience in research and development, formulation, manufacturing, marketing, sales, distribution, financial and technical regulatory matters than we have. In addition, many competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive collaborative relationships. Our competitors could commence and complete clinical testing of their product candidates, obtain regulatory approvals, and begin commercial-scale manufacturing of their products faster than we are able to for our products. They could develop drug discovery technologies or products that would render Zalicus’s drug discovery technologies and our product candidates, and those of our collaborators, obsolete and noncompetitive. Zalicus’s drug discovery technologies compete against well-established techniques to discover new drugs. If we are unable to compete effectively against these existing techniques and the companies that support them, then we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates or achieve a competitive position in the market. In addition, any product candidates that we do discover will face competition from existing pharmaceuticals. Our competitors’ success is discovering new drugs and marketing existing drugs which compete with our product candidates would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Our competitors and our cHTS collaborators already have high throughput screening technologies and if they employ these technologies to discover combination drugs, they may render Zalicus’s technologies or Zalicus’s approach to combination drug discovery and development obsolete or noncompetitive, which could materially affect the revenue generated by our cHTS business. We may have significant product liability exposure which may harm our business and our reputation. We face exposure to product liability and other claims if our product candidates, products or processes are alleged to have caused harm. These risks are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, and marketing of human therapeutic products and medical devices. We maintain product liability insurance covering our clinical trials of our product candidates. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost, if at all. Our inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of any products or product candidates that we develop. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, product candidates or processes, our liability could exceed our product liability insurance coverage and our total assets. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also divert significant management time and resources, generate negative publicity or hurt our ability to obtain physician endorsement of our products or expand our business. We use and generate materials that may expose us to expensive and time-consuming legal claims. Our development programs involve the use of hazardous materials, chemicals, and biological materials. We are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, and disposal of materials and waste products. We believe that our safety procedures for handling these materials comply with the standards prescribed by laws and regulations. However, we may incur significant costs to 33 Table of Contents comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from hazardous materials. In the event of an accident, an injured party may seek to hold us liable for any damages that result. Any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance, and we may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our recently completed 1-for-6 stock split could adversely impact our company and the trading of our common stock. On October 3, 2013, we filed a certificate of amendment to our Sixth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to effect a 1-for-6 reverse stock split of our common stock. While the reverse stock split enabled us to regain compliance with The NASDAQ Capital Market’s minimum bid price listing requirement, it may also result in certain adverse impacts to our company and the trading of our common stock. Additionally, the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares resulting from the reverse stock split, which, in turn, could result in greater volatility in the price per share of our common stock. As a result and notwithstanding our reverse stock split and our regained compliance with the NASDAQ Capital Market’s minimum bid price listing requirement, we may not be able to maintain a price per share of our common stock in excess of $1.00 per share or the additional criteria for continued listing of our common stock set forth by The NASDAQ Capital Market. The occurrence of any future non-compliance with the NASDAQ Capital Market’s minimum bid price or other listing requirements may have a material adverse effect on our stock price, our business and our prospects. Our common stock has a volatile public trading price. The market price for our common stock has been volatile, and market prices for securities of companies comparable to us have been highly volatile. In addition, the stock market as a whole and biotechnology and other life science stocks in particular have experienced significant recent price volatility. Like our common stock, these stocks have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the individual companies. Factors giving rise to this volatility may include: • disclosure of actual or potential clinical or preclinical results with respect to product candidates we are developing, including Z944; • disclosure by our collaboration partners, including Sanofi and Novartis regarding our collaborations and the related product candidates, including Prednisporin; • regulatory developments in both the United States and abroad; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; • disclosure of new collaborations or other strategic transactions; • public concern about the safety or efficacy of our product candidates or technology, their components, or related technology or new technologies generally; • public announcements by our competitors or others regarding new products or new product candidates; • general market conditions and comments by securities analysts and investors; and • our recent 1-for-6 reverse stock split. Fluctuations in our operating losses could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our operating losses may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. Some of the factors that may cause our operating losses to fluctuate on a period-to-period basis include the status of our clinical and pre-clinical development programs, level of expenses incurred in connection with our clinical and pre-clinical development programs, restructuring costs, implementation or termination of collaboration, licensing, manufacturing or other 34 Table of Contents material agreements with third parties, non-recurring revenue or expenses under any such agreement, and compliance with regulatory requirements. Period-to-period comparisons of our historical and future financial results may not be meaningful, and investors should not rely on them as an indication of future performance. Our fluctuating losses may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our failure to meet these expectations may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and provisions of Delaware law may make an acquisition more difficult and could result in the entrenchment of management. We are incorporated in Delaware. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make a change in control or efforts to remove management more difficult. Also, under Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures. The existence of the following provisions of Delaware law and our sixth amended and restated charter, as amended, or our amended and restated bylaws could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. If the board of directors exercises this power to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock and vote the stock they acquire to remove management or directors. Our charter also provides staggered terms for the members of our board of directors. Under Section 141 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our charter, our directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause and only by vote of the holders of 75% of voting shares then outstanding. These provisions may prevent stockholders from replacing the entire board in a single proxy contest, making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions could also delay the removal of management by the board of directors with or without cause. In addition our amended and restated bylaws limit the ability our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. Our equity incentive plans generally permit our board of directors to provide for acceleration of vesting of options granted under these plans in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. If our board of directors uses its authority to accelerate vesting of options, this action could make an acquisition more costly, and it could prevent an acquisition from going forward. Under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction in advance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 