ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following Risk Factors and all other information in this Report. These Risk Factors are not the only ones facing us. Our operations could also be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Risks Relating to Our Industry We depend on worldwide demand and any economic decrease in the demand for cargo transport could adversely affect our business and operations. Our success is highly dependent upon the level of business activity and overall economic conditions in the United States and abroad. An economic downturn in the United States is likely to adversely affect demand for delivery services offered by our Scheduled Service business and our ACMI customers, in particular expedited services shipped via heavy lift aircraft. A prolonged economic slowdown may increase the likelihood that our ACMI customers would reduce the scope of services we provide or may reduce the level of our Scheduled Service business. The cost of fuel is a major operating expense and fuel shortages and price volatility could adversely affect our business and operations. Although the price of aviation fuel directly impacts only the Scheduled Service and Commercial Charter segments of our operations, it is one of our most significant expenses. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, fuel costs were approximately 30.4%, 25.6% and 23.5%, respectively, of our total operating expenses. The price of aviation fuel is directly influenced by the price of crude oil and, to a lesser extent, by refining capacity relative to demand. These factors are influenced by a wide variety of macroeconomic and geopolitical events and are completely beyond our control. Additionally, hostilities in the Middle East and terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad could cause significant disruptions in the supply of crude oil and have had a significant impact on the price and availability of aviation fuel. We have not regularly entered into fuel hedging arrangements to date. Even if we were to elect to hedge fuel prices in the future, through the purchase of futures contracts or options or otherwise, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully. We generally attempt to pass on increases in the price of aviation fuel to our Scheduled Service and Commercial Charter customers through the imposition of a surcharge, but we bear a portion of price increases over the short term. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to impose such surcharges in the future. In addition, if fuel costs increase significantly, our customers may reduce the volume and frequency of cargo shipments or find less costly alternatives for cargo delivery, such as land and sea carriers. ACMI contracts require our customers to pay for aviation fuel. However, an increase in fuel costs could have a material adverse effect on our customers’ results of operations and financial condition or cause our customers to reduce or stop their use of aircraft that have the fuel payment obligations, thereby adversely affecting our ability to continue to operate our ACMI business under its current terms. Similarly, a reduction in the availability of fuel, resulting from a disruption of oil imports or other events, could have a material adverse effect on our customers’ results of operations and financial condition, which, in turn, could significantly impact their ability and willingness to continue to do business with us. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations and our failure to comply with these regulations in the United States and abroad, or the adoption of any new laws, policies or regulations or changes to such regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to complex aviation and transportation laws and regulations, including Title 49 of the U.S. Code (formerly the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended), under which the DOT and the FAA exercise regulatory authority over air carriers such as Atlas and Polar. In addition, our business activities fall within the jurisdiction of various other federal, state, local and foreign authorities, including the U.S. Department of Defense, the TSA, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and the EPA. These laws and regulations may require us to maintain and comply with the terms of a wide variety of certificates, permits, licenses, noise abatement standards and other requirements and our failure to do so could result in substantial fines or other sanctions. The DOT, the FAA, the TSA and foreign aviation regulatory agencies have the authority to modify, amend, suspend or revoke the authority and licenses issued to us for failure to comply with provisions of law or applicable regulations and may impose civil or criminal penalties for violations of applicable rules and regulations. Such actions, if taken, could have a material adverse effect on our mode of conducting business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, governmental authorities such as the DOT, the TSA and the FAA may adopt new regulations, directives or orders that could require us to take additional and potentially costly compliance steps or result in the grounding of some of our aircraft, which could increase our operating costs or result in a loss of revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 The airline industry has changed fundamentally since the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and we are subject to stringent security regulations and rules. In response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, various government agencies, including U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the TSA, have adopted laws and may in the future adopt new rules, policies or regulations or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, rules, policies or regulations, compliance with which could increase our costs or result in loss of revenues, or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The TSA has increased security requirements in response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and has recently proposed comprehensive new regulations governing air cargo transportation, including all-cargo services, in such areas as cargo screening and security clearances for individuals with access to cargo or who board and travel on all-cargo aircraft. These new regulations and others that potentially might be adopted could have an adverse impact on our ability to efficiently process cargo or could increase our costs. Furthermore, Congress is considering air transportation security provisions that could have similar impacts. Failure to utilize our rights in limited-entry market could result in a loss of such rights. A significant amount of our business, primarily in the Scheduled Service segment, is conducted in limited-entry international markets with U.S.-negotiated rights that have been awarded in competitive carrier selection proceedings. This includes Polar’s China rights and its “5th-freedom” rights to serve Hong Kong and third country markets. Because such rights typically are subject to loss for underutilization, there is a risk of constriction of our operating rights if it is determined that economic conditions preclude full use. The DOT and foreign government agencies may also consider or adopt new laws, regulations and policies with respect to limited-entry markets (such as China and Japan) and to ACMI operations. Any adverse change or modification to our limited-entry market rights (or governmental trade barriers in such markets) could negatively affect our profitability. In addition, traffic rights to many foreign countries are subject to bilateral air services agreements between the United States and foreign countries and are allocated only to a limited number of U.S. carriers, which are subject to licensing approval by the applicable foreign regulators. Consequently, our ability to provide air cargo service in some foreign markets depends, in part, on the willingness of the DOT to allocate limited traffic rights to us rather than to competing U.S. airlines and on the approval of the applicable foreign regulators. If we are unable to maintain our current arrangements, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues and cash flow to sustain or expand our operations. Our insurance coverage has become increasingly expensive and difficult to obtain. Aviation insurance premiums historically have fluctuated based on factors that include the loss history of the industry in general and the insured carrier in particular. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, our premiums have increased significantly. Future terrorist attacks involving aircraft, or the threat of such attacks, could result in further increases in insurance costs and could affect the price and availability of such coverage. We have, as have most other U.S. airlines, purchased our war-risk coverage through a special program administered by the federal government. The FAA is currently providing war-risk hull and cargo loss, crew and third-party liability insurance through August 31, 2006 as required by the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as amended by the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2005 and by the Transportation Appropriations Act of 2006. The Secretary of Transportation may extend this policy until December 31, 2006. If the federal insurance program terminates, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war-risk coverage, and because of competitive pressures in the industry, our ability to pass this additional cost on to customers may be limited. Although we believe our current insurance coverage is adequate and consistent with current industry practice, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing coverage on terms favorable to us, that the premiums for such coverage will not increase substantially, or that we will not bear substantial losses and lost revenues from accidents. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of related insurance coverage or a significant increase in our current insurance expense could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business The market for air cargo services is highly competitive and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose current customers or fail to attract new customers. Our industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting due to periodic excess capacity. New freighter aircraft and passenger converted freighters will add to the supply of lift available to the market. Since we offer a broad range of aviation services, our competitors vary by geographic market and type of service. Each of the markets we serve is 12 highly competitive and fragmented. In addition, air cargo companies are able to freely enter domestic markets. We believe that the most important elements for competition in the air cargo business are the range, payload and cubic capacities of the aircraft and the price, flexibility, quality and reliability of the cargo transportation services provided. In addition, some of our contracts are awarded based on a competitive bidding process. Competition arises primarily from other international and domestic contract carriers, regional and national ground handling and logistics companies, internal cargo units of major airlines and third party cargo providers, some of which have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive fleets and facilities than we do. Some of our airline competitors are currently facing financial difficulties and as a result could resort to drastic pricing measures with which we may not be able to compete. Our ability to attract and retain business is also affected by whether, and to what extent, our customers decide to coordinate and service their own transportation needs. Some of our existing customers maintain transportation departments that could be expanded to manage freight transportation in-house. The inability to successfully compete against companies providing services similar to, or that are substitutes for, our own, or our customers providing for themselves the services we currently provide to them, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are highly leveraged and our substantial debt and other obligations could limit our financial resources and ability to compete and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic events. While we obtained significant relief as a result of our restructuring efforts, we remain highly leveraged and have substantial debt, lease and other obligations, which could have negative consequences, including: making it more difficult to pay principal and interest with respect to our debt; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for interest, principal and lease payments and reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital and other general corporate requirements; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in business and our industry; placing us at a disadvantage to many of our competitors who have less debt; and exposing us to fluctuations in interest rates with respect to that portion of our debt, including our bank loans, which are at a variable rate of interest. Our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations depends on certain factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt and meet our lease and other obligations as they come due is dependent on our future financial and operating performance. This performance is subject to various factors, including factors beyond our control, such as changes in global and regional economic conditions, changes in our industry, changes in interest or currency exchange rates, the price and availability of aviation fuel and other costs, including labor and insurance. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to enable us to service our debt and leases and meet these obligations as they become due, we could be forced to: restructure or refinance our debt; obtain additional debt or equity financing; reduce or delay capital expenditures; limit or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, business plans or operations; and/or sell assets or businesses. We cannot assure you as to the timing of such actions or the amount of proceeds that could be realized from such actions. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our debt service and other obligations as they become due or otherwise. 13 We are subject to restrictive covenants under our debt instruments and aircraft lease agreements. These covenants could significantly affect the way in which we conduct our business. Our failure to comply with these covenants could lead to an acceleration of our debt and termination of our aircraft leases. Certain of our debt instruments and lease agreements contain a number of covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain minimum liquidity of $95 million net cash available as of December 31, 2005 and significantly restrict our ability to: incur additional debt or issue new lease obligations above threshold amounts; invest in new capital assets above certain limitations; pay dividends or make other restricted payments; create or permit certain liens; sell assets; and consolidate or merge with or into other companies or sell all or substantially all of our assets. These restrictions could limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, to make acquisitions or to pursue future business opportunities. In addition, our revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) with Congress Financial Corporation (“Congress”) and Wachovia Bank, National Association (“Wachovia”), a certain loan that was made to Atlas Freighter Leasing III, Inc. (“AFL III”) (the “AFL III Credit Facility”), another loan made to Atlas (the “Aircraft Credit Facility” or “ACF”) and certain leases require us to maintain specified financial ratios and/or satisfy certain financial covenants. We may be required to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to meet these ratios and to satisfy these covenants. Events beyond our control, including changes in the economic and business conditions in the markets in which we operate, may affect our ability to do so. While we are currently in compliance with these ratios and covenants, we cannot assure you that we will continue to meet these ratios or satisfy these covenants or that the lenders or lessors will waive any failure to do so. A breach of any of the covenants in, or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios under, our debt instruments, including the Revolving Credit Facility, and certain of our leases would prevent us from borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility and could result in a default under it and the leases. Moreover, if the lenders under a facility or other agreement in default were to accelerate the debt outstanding under that facility, it could result in a cross default under other debt facilities or leases. If all or any part of our debt were to be accelerated, we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay such debt. A default under the leases could result in a reversion to the original lease terms without regard to the restructuring of the lease payments and an acceleration of any amounts owed under the leases. Our access to capital may be limited. Our operations are capital intensive. They are financed from operating cash flow, and if required from borrowings, pursuant to the Revolving Credit Facility. Many airlines, including us, have defaulted on debt securities and bank loans in recent years and have had their equity eliminated in bankruptcy reorganizations. This history has led to limited access to the capital markets by companies in our industry. Our access to the capital markets may also be limited for the foreseeable future due to limited liquidity in our securities, among other things. Restrictions on our ability to access capital and obtain sufficient financing to fund our operations may diminish our financial and operational flexibility and could curtail our operations and adversely affect our ability to take advantage of opportunities for expansion of our business. We cannot assure you, however, that any additional replacement financing will be available on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. A significant decline in our AMC business transporting cargo for delivery to military locations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. During 2005 and 2004, approximately 27.2% and 20.0%, respectively, of our consolidated operating revenues were derived from our AMC business, including expansion mission requests transporting cargo for delivery to military locations in Germany, Bahrain, Qatar and Kuwait, and in or near Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere in the Middle East. A material decline in such business, including one-way missions, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 14 We expect that revenues from the AMC will continue to be a significant source of our revenue for the foreseeable future. However, our revenues from the AMC are derived from one-year contracts that the AMC is not obligated to renew. In addition, the AMC can typically terminate or modify its contract with us for convenience, if we fail to perform or to pass semi-annual inspections. Any such termination would result in a loss of revenue and could expose us to significant liability or hinder our ability to compete for future contracts with the federal government. If our AMC business declines significantly, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Even if the AMC continues to award business to us, we cannot assure you that we will continue to generate the same level of revenues we currently derive from our AMC Charter operations. The volume of our AMC business is sensitive to changes in national and international political priorities and the U.S. federal budget. Our revenues from the AMC could decline as a result of the system the AMC uses to allocate business to commercial airlines that participate in the CRAF. Each year, the AMC grants a certain portion of its business to different airlines based on a point system. The number of points an airline can accrue is determined by the amount and type of aircraft pledged to the CRAF Program. We participate in the CRAF Program through a teaming arrangement with other airlines, led by FedEx. Our team is currently entitled to 36.3% of all wide-body Boeing 747 U.S. military business. The formation of competing teaming arrangements, an increase by other air carriers in their commitment of aircraft to the program or the withdrawal of our team’s current partners, especially FedEx, could adversely affect the amount of our AMC business in future years. In addition, if any of our team members were to cease or restructure its operations, the number of planes pledged to the CRAF Program by our team could be reduced. As a result, the number of points allocated to our team could be reduced and our allocation of AMC business would likely decrease, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on continued business with certain customers in each of our business segments, especially in the ACMI segment. If our business with any of these customers declines significantly, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. During 2005 and 2004, the ACMI business accounted for approximately 28.8% and 26.6%, respectively, of our consolidated operating revenues. No ACMI customer accounted for 10% or more of our total operating revenues. Our significant ACMI customers included Emirates, Qantas, Air New Zealand, Cargolux, Korean Air, British Airways and Lan Cargo. While we believe that our relationships with these and our other customers are mutually satisfactory, our failure to renew any of our contracts with them, or the renewal of any of those contracts on less favorable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Many of our arrangements with customers are not long-term contracts. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to generate similar revenues from these arrangements. We generate a large portion of our revenues from arrangements with customers with terms of less than one year, ad hoc arrangements or “call-when-needed” contracts. A large portion of our AMC revenues are from expansion business, which is not fixed by contract and is dependent on AMC requirements which cannot be predicted. The scheduled termination dates for ACMI contracts range from two months to 3.8 years as of December 31, 2005. While we believe that our relationships with these and our other customers are mutually satisfactory, we cannot assure you that our customers will continue to seek the same level of services from us as they have in the past or that they will renew these arrangements or not terminate them on short notice, if permitted. In the past, several of our larger contracts have not been renewed due to reasons unrelated to our performance, such as the financial position of our customers or their decision to move the services we previously provided to them in-house. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that in any given year we will be able to generate similar revenues from our customers as we did in the previous year. We operate in potentially dangerous locations and carry hazardous cargo, either of which could result in a loss of, or damage to, our aircraft. Our operations are subject to conditions that could result in losses of, or damage to, our aircraft, or death or injury to our personnel. These conditions include: geopolitical instability in areas through which our flight routes pass, including areas where the United States is conducting military activities; future terrorist attacks; and 15 casualties incidental to the services we provide in support of U.S. military activities, particularly in or near Afghanistan, Iraq, Kuwait and elsewhere in the Middle East. We regularly carry sensitive military cargo, including weaponry, ammunition and other volatile materials. The inherently dangerous nature of such cargo increases the risk of damage to or loss of our aircraft. Our financial condition could suffer if we experience unanticipated costs or enforcement action as a result of the SEC investigation and other lawsuits and claims. On October 28, 2004, the SEC issued a Wells Notice (the “Wells Notice”) to us indicating that the SEC staff is considering recommending to the SEC that it bring a civil action against us alleging that we violated certain financial reporting provisions of the federal securities laws from 1999 to 2002. In addition, the SEC has filed one or more proofs of claim in the Chapter 11 Cases. We are currently engaged in discussions with the SEC regarding the Wells Notice and the possible resolution of this matter and continue to cooperate fully with the SEC in respect of its investigation. However, we cannot assure you as to the outcome of this investigation or that we will be able to resolve this matter on terms favorable to us. We are also party to a number of other claims, lawsuits and pending actions, which we consider to be routine and incidental to our business (see Note 13 to our Financial Statements). Volatility of aircraft values may affect our ability to obtain financing secured by our aircraft. We have historically relied upon the market value of our aircraft as a source of additional capital. The market for used aircraft, however, is volatile and can be negatively affected by excess capacity due to factors such as a slowdown in global economic conditions. As a result, the value of aircraft reflected on our consolidated balance sheets may not reflect the current fair market value or appraised value of these aircraft. We have material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with our initial procedures to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), we have identified a substantial number of significant deficiencies and a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. We are committed to addressing these deficiencies and material weakness, which have required us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services and have resulted and will continue to result over at least the next twelve months in additional accounting and consulting expenses. If we are unsuccessful in our focused effort to permanently and effectively remediate these deficiencies and material weakness, or otherwise fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial condition may be adversely impacted, which could, among other things, result in a default under our Revolving Credit Facility and limit our access to the capital markets. In addition, if we do not remediate these weaknesses, we will not be able to conclude, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Item 308 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act, that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. We cannot assure you as to what conclusions our management or independent registered public accounting firm might reach with respect to their evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, the date we are first required to report such conclusions. In the event of non-compliance, we may lose the trust of our customers, suppliers and security holders, and our stock price could be adversely impacted (see “Controls and Procedures” in Item 9A of Part II of this Report). Labor disputes with union employees have resulted, and could result, in a work interruption or stoppage, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. All of our U.S. crewmembers are represented by unions. Collectively, these employees represent approximately 49% and 54% of our workforce as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We are subject to risks of work interruption or stoppage and may incur additional expenses associated with the union representation of our employees. Indeed, during 2005 a strike did occur by our Polar crewmembers, but was ultimately resolved after a 20 day work stoppage. However, we cannot assure you that disputes, including disputes with any certified collective bargaining representatives of our employees, will not arise in the future or will result in an agreement on terms satisfactory to us. Such disputes and the inherent costs associated with their resolution could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In November 2004, in order to increase efficiency and assist in controlling certain costs, we initiated steps to combine the U.S. crewmembers bargaining units of Atlas and Polar. These actions are in accordance with the terms and conditions of 16 Atlas’ and Polar’s collective bargaining agreements, which agreements provide for a seniority integration process and the negotiation of a single collective bargaining agreement. In the event that we are unsuccessful in reaching agreement on a single collective bargaining agreement, any unresolved issues will be submitted to binding arbitration. While we cannot assure you as to the outcome of such arbitration, any decision by the arbitrator could materially impact our crew costs. The Atlas’ collective bargaining agreement became amendable in February 2006. By mutual agreement between the ALPA and Atlas, negotiations for an amended agreement have been put on hold in favor of the contractually required completion of a single collective bargaining agreement covering both the Atlas and Polar crewmembers pursuant to the Company’s decision to merge the two crew forces. Our operating cash flows may be subject to fluctuations related to the seasonality of our business and our ability to promptly collect accounts receivable. A significant decline in operating cash flows may require us to seek additional financing sources to fund our working capital requirements. Our Scheduled Service and Commercial Charter operations are seasonal in nature, with peak activity occurring during the retail holiday season, which traditionally begins in September and lasts through mid-December. This typically results in a significant decline in demand for these services in the first quarter. Our ACMI contracts typically allow our customers to cancel a maximum of 5% of the guaranteed hours of aircraft utilization over the course of a year. Our customers often exercise such cancellation options early in the first quarter of the year, when the demand for air cargo capacity has been historically low following the seasonal holiday peak in the fourth quarter. Historically, we have experienced fluctuations in our operating cash flows as the result of fluctuations in our collection of accounts receivable. These fluctuations have been due to various issues, including amendments and changes to existing contracts and the commencement of operations under new agreements. If we cannot successfully collect a significant portion of such accounts receivable aged over 90 days old, we may be required to set aside additional reserves or write off a portion of such receivables. If we are not able to maintain or reduce our aged receivables, our ability to borrow against the Revolving Credit Facility may be restricted because borrowings are limited to 85.0% of “eligible” domestic receivables, which excludes receivables aged over 90 days old. If our operating cash flows significantly decline as a result of such fluctuations, we may be required to seek alternative financing sources, in addition to the Revolving Credit Facility, to fund our working capital requirements. We cannot assure you that we would be able to successfully obtain such alternative financing on terms favorable to us or at all. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement and other rules and regulations. In order to do business with government agencies, we must comply with and are affected by many laws and regulations, including those relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things: require, in some cases, certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; impose accounting rules that define allowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts; and restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of these laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts. In addition, the violation of certain other generally applicable laws and regulations could result in our suspension or debarment as a government contractor. We depend on the availability of our wide-body aircraft for the majority of our flight revenues. The loss of one or more of these aircraft for any period of time could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In the event that one or more of our Boeing 747 aircraft are out of service for an extended period of time, we may have difficulty fulfilling our obligations under one or more of our existing contracts. As a result, we may have to lease or 17 purchase replacement aircraft or, if necessary, convert an aircraft from passenger to freighter configuration. We cannot assure you that suitable replacement aircraft could be located quickly or on acceptable terms. The loss of revenue resulting from any such business interruption or costs to replace aircraft could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Except for limited situations, we do not have insurance against the loss arising from business interruption. If we fail to keep our aircraft in service, we may have to take impairment charges in the future and our results of operations would be adversely affected. The loss of our aircraft or the grounding of our fleet could reduce our capacity utilization and revenues, require significant capital expenditures to replace such aircraft and could have a material adverse affect on us and our ability to make payments on the debt or lease related to the aircraft. Moreover, any aircraft accident could cause a public perception that some or all of our aircraft are less safe or reliable than other carriers’ aircraft, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the risks of having a limited number of suppliers for our aircraft. Our current dependence on a single type of aircraft for all of our flights makes us particularly vulnerable to any problems associated with the Boeing 747-400 and Boeing 747-200 aircraft, including design defects, mechanical problems and contractual performance by the manufacturer or any actions by the FAA, resulting in an inability to operate our aircraft. Carriers that operate a more diversified fleet are better positioned than we are to manage such events. Our fleet includes older aircraft that have higher maintenance costs than new aircraft which could require substantial maintenance expenses. Our fleet includes 19 747-200s aircraft manufactured between 1974 and 1981. As of December 31, 2005, the average age of our Boeing 747-200 operating aircraft was approximately 26.1 years. Because many aircraft components wear out and are required to be replaced after a specified number of flight hours or takeoff and landing cycles and because older aircraft may need to be refitted with new aviation technology, older aircraft tend to have higher maintenance costs and lower available flight hours than newer aircraft. Maintenance and related costs can vary significantly from period to period as a result of government-mandated inspections and maintenance programs and the time needed to complete required maintenance checks. In addition, the age of our aircraft increases the likelihood that we will need significant capital expenditures in the future to replace our older aircraft. The incurrence of substantial additional maintenance expenses for our aircraft or the incurrence of significant capital expenditures to replace our aircraft could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business outside of the U.S. exposes us to uncertain conditions in overseas markets. A significant portion of our revenues comes from air-freight services to customers outside the United States, which exposes us to significant risks, including the following: potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations between foreign countries and the United States; risks of insurrections or hostility from local populations directed at U.S. companies and their property; government policies against businesses owned by foreigners; expropriations of property by foreign governments; the instability of foreign governments or economies; and adverse effects of currency exchange controls. In addition, at some foreign airports, we are required by local governmental authorities or market conditions to contract with third parties for ground and cargo handling and other services. The performance by these third parties or boycott of such services is beyond our control and any operating difficulties experienced by these third parties could adversely affect our reputation or our business. Volatility in international currency markets may adversely affect demand for our services. We provide services to numerous industries and customers that experience significant fluctuations in demand based on 18 regional and global economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. The demand for our services could be materially adversely affected by downturns in the businesses of our customers. Although we price the majority of our services and receive the majority of our payments in U.S. dollars, many of our customers’ revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. Any significant devaluation in such currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on such customers’ ability to pay us or on their level of demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Conversely, if there is a significant decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, the demand for some of the products we transport could decline. Such a decline could reduce demand for our services and thereby have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance coverage does not cover all risks. Our operations involve inherent risks that subject us to various forms of liability. We carry insurance against those risks for which we believe other participants in our industry commonly insure. However, we can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. If our liability exceeds the amounts of our coverage, we would be required to pay any such excess amounts, which amounts could be material to our business and operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities We cannot predict with certainty that we will continue to file our SEC periodic reports on a timely basis and if or when our common shares will be re-listed on a national securities exchange. Our shares of common stock, all of which were issued pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization (“Common Stock”), are currently quoted on the over-the-counter market on the pink sheets (the “Pink Sheets”) and, as a result, there is limited liquidity therein. There can be no assurance that an active market for the Common Stock will develop or continue and no assurance can be given as to the prices at which it might be traded. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any attempt to have the Common Stock listed on a national securities exchange or a foreign securities exchange, or quoted on the NASDAQ stock market. At the present time, we cannot predict with certainty that we will continue to file our required reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K on a timely basis. We are continuing to work to improve the timeliness of all our periodic filings. Equity based awards will dilute the ownership interests of other stockholders. Pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, an aggregate of 2,772,559 shares of Common Stock have been reserved for equity-based awards. The shares have been reserved under Holdings’ 2004 Long Term Incentive and Share Award Plan (the, “2004 LTIP”), which includes an incentive plan in which members of our board of directors (the “Board”) and management participate, and an employee stock option plan. As of December 31, 2005, a total of 1,957,279 shares have been awarded to directors, management and employees under the 2004 LTIP, comprised of 658,600 shares of restricted stock and non-qualified stock options to purchase 1,298,679 shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 