ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. We have grown rapidly, and a failure to manage any continued growth could reduce our potential revenue and could negatively impact our future operating results. In 2009, we completed two major acquisitions. In order to successfully implement our overall growth strategies, we will need to carefully and efficiently manage our planned expansion. Among other things, this will require us to continue to: • improve our products and technology and develop new technologies; • manage new distribution channels; • manage an increasing number of complex relationships with our customers, wafer foundries and other third parties; • monitor and improve our operating systems, procedures and financial controls on a timely basis; • retain existing, and hire additional, key management and technical personnel; • expand, train and manage our workforce and, in particular, our research and development, sales, marketing and support organizations. • retain and expand the customer base for the IDT NSE Business and the RMI product offerings; • integrate and improve the IDT and RMI manufacturing operations; and • integrate and manage the foreign entities acquired in the RMI acquisition. We may not be able to adequately manage our growth or meet the foregoing objectives. A failure to do so could jeopardize our future revenue and cause our stock price to decline. Also, our ability to execute our business plan and grow our business will be heavily dependent on our management team’s ability to work effectively together. 18 Table of Contents Our operating cash needs have increased substantially as a result of our acquisition of RMI in October 2009 and other recent acquisitions, and if we are unable to generate adequate cash flow from our operations to meet these needs, our liquidity may be impaired. Although in recent years we have generated sufficient net cash from operations to meet our capital requirements, we have become substantially larger with greater operating cash needs as a result of the RMI and other recent acquisitions. We may be required to pay up to $15.9 million cash to the former holders of RMI capital stock as earn-out consideration based upon achieving specified percentages of revenue targets for either the 12-month period from October 1, 2009 through September 30, 2010, or the 12-month period from November 1, 2009 through October 31, 2010, whichever period results in the higher percentage of the revenue target. The earn-out consideration, if any, net of applicable indemnity claims, will be paid on or before December 31, 2010. Our future cash needs will depend on many factors, including the amount of revenue we generate, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of introductions of new products, the costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity, and the continuing market acceptance of our products, and any future business acquisitions that we might undertake. These factors, in turn, depend in large part on the success of our efforts to integrate the RMI and IDT NSE businesses we acquired with our own business as it existed prior to the acquisitions. In the event that we do not achieve the synergies and realize other benefits we anticipated achieving from these acquisitions, our future cash needs may be greater than we currently anticipate. We have also incurred and may continue to incur significant transaction expenses in connection with these acquisitions and other transactions. We may seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing, and we have a shelf registration statement that would allow us to sell up to an additional amount of approximately $120 million of our securities from time to time during the next three years. However, additional funding could be constrained by the terms and covenants under our senior secured credit facility and may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also might decide to raise additional capital at such times and upon such terms as management considers favorable and in our interests, including, but not limited to, from the sale of our debt and/or equity securities under our shelf registration statement, but we cannot be certain that we will be able to complete offerings of our securities at such times and on such terms as we may consider desirable for us. Any such financings may be upon terms that are potentially dilutive to existing stockholders. 19 Table of Contents We derive most of our revenue from sales of our knowledge-based processors, and, if the demand for these products and other products does not grow, we may not achieve our growth and strategic objectives. Our knowledge-based processors are used primarily in networking systems, including routers, switches, network access equipment and networked storage devices. Although our recent acquisition of RMI has expanded our product portfolio, we have historically derived a substantial portion of our total revenue from sales of our knowledge-based processors and expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our total revenues from these products for the foreseeable future. We believe our future business and financial success depends on continued market acceptance and increasing sales of our knowledge-based processors. In order to meet our growth and strategic objectives, networking and communications infrastructure OEMs must continue to incorporate, and increase the incorporation of, our products into their systems as their preferred means of enabling network-aware processing of IP packets, and the demand for their systems must grow as well. We cannot provide assurance that sales of our knowledge-based processors will increase substantially in the future or that the demand for our customers’ systems will increase as well. Our future revenues from these products may not increase in accordance with our growth and strategic objectives if the OEM customers modify their current product designs or select products sold by our competitors instead. Thus, the future success of this part of our business depends in large part on factors outside our control, and sales of our knowledge-based processors and other products may not meet our revenue growth and strategic objectives. Additionally, due to the high concentration of our sales with a small number of OEMs, we cannot guarantee that the demand for the systems offered by these customers will increase or that our sales will increase outside this core customer base, and, accordingly, prior quarterly or annual results may not be an indication of our future revenue growth or financial results. Because we rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our total revenue, the loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders for our products from these customers would negatively affect our total revenue and business. To date, we have been dependent upon orders for sales our products to a limited number of customers, and, in particular, Cisco, for most of our total revenue. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Cisco and its contract manufacturers accounted for 35%, 38% and 50% of our total revenue, respectively. In addition, because the market segments served by us and RMI prior to the acquisition were complementary and some of our significant customer bases overlapped, the combination of our companies has not reduced our dependency on sales to some of our significant customers that we share. We expect that our future financial performance will continue to depend in large part upon our relationship with Cisco and several other large OEMs. We cannot assure you that existing or potential customers will not develop their own solutions, purchase competitive products or acquire companies that use alternative methods in their systems. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from any of our OEM customers or their contract manufacturers. Although we entered into master purchase agreements with certain significant customers including Cisco, one of Cisco’s foreign affiliates and a Cisco purchasing agent, these agreements do not include any long-term purchase commitments. Cisco and our other customers do business with us currently only on the basis of short-term purchase orders (subject, in the case of Cisco, to the terms of the master purchase agreements), which often are cancelable prior to shipment. The loss of orders for our products from Cisco or other major users of our products would have a significant negative impact on our business. We face additional risks to our business success and financial condition because of our dependence on a small number of customers for sales of our products. Our dependence on a small number of customers, especially Cisco and its contract manufacturers, for most of our revenue in the foreseeable future creates additional risks for our business, including the following: • we may face increased pressure to reduce the average selling prices of our products; • we may find it difficult to pass through increases in our manufacturing and other direct costs; • the reputation of our products in the marketplace may be affected adversely if Cisco or other OEMs that represent a significant percentage of our sales of products reduce or cease their use of our products; and • we may face problems in collecting a substantial portion of our accounts receivable if any of these companies faces financial difficulties or dispute payments. 20 Table of Contents While we achieved profitability in recent years, we had a net loss in 2009 and a history of net losses prior to 2005. We may incur significant net losses in the future and may not be able to sustain profitability. We reported a net loss of $47.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. We reported net income of $3.6 million and $2.6 million during the years ended 2008 and 2007, and we have reported net losses in years prior to fiscal 2005. At December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $123.1 million. To regain profitability, we will have to continue to generate greater total revenue and control costs and expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate greater total revenue, or limit our costs and expenses, sufficiently to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Moreover, if we continue to make acquisitions and other transactions that generate substantial expenses for acquired intangible assets and similar items as well acquisition costs, we may not become profitable in the near term even though we otherwise meet our growth and operting objectives. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2009 we recorded $62.4 million of non-cash operating expenses. See “Cash Flows during the Year ended December 31, 2009” in Item 7, Management ‘s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations, and Note 2, “Business Combinations and Asset Purchase” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement. Because we sell our products on a purchase order basis and rely on estimated forecasts of our customers’ needs, inaccurate forecasts could adversely affect our business. We sell our products pursuant to individual purchase orders (subject, in the case of Cisco and certain key customers, to the terms of a master purchase agreement), and not pursuant to long-term purchase commitments. Therefore, we rely on estimated demand forecasts, based upon input from our customers, to determine how much product to manufacture. Because our sales are based on purchase orders, our customers may cancel, delay or otherwise modify their purchase commitments with little or no consequence to them and with little or no notice to us. For these reasons, we generally have limited visibility regarding our customers’ product needs. We cannot provide assurance as to the quantities or timing required by our customers for our products. We cannot assure you that we will not experience subsequent substantial warranty claims or that warranty claims will not result in cancellation of existing orders or reluctance of customers to place future orders. In addition, the product design cycle for networking OEMs is lengthy, and it may be difficult for us to accurately anticipate when they will commence commercial shipments of products that include our knowledge-based processors. Whether in response to changes affecting the industry or a customer’s specific business pressures, any cancellation, delay or other modification in our customers’ orders could significantly reduce our revenue, cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult for us to predict our revenue. In the event of a cancellation or reduction of an order, we may not have enough time to reduce operating expenses to minimize the effect of the lost revenue on our business, and we may purchase too much inventory and spend more capital than expected. Additionally, if we overestimate customer demand for our products, we may purchase products from manufacturers that we may not be able to sell. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we would forego revenue opportunities and could lose market share in the markets served by our products. In addition, our inability to meet customer requirements for our products could lead to delays in product shipments, force customers to identify alternative sources and otherwise adversely affect our ongoing relationships with our customers. 21 Table of Contents We are dependent on contract manufacturers for a significant portion of our revenue. Many of our OEM customers, including Cisco, use third party contract manufacturers to manufacture their systems. These contract manufacturers represented 43%, 41% and 65% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Contract manufacturers purchase our products directly from us on behalf of OEMs. Although we work with our OEM customers in the design and development phases of their systems, these OEM customers are gradually giving contract manufacturers more authority in product purchasing decisions. As a result, we depend on a concentrated group of contract manufacturers for a substantial portion of our revenue. If we cannot compete effectively for the business of these contract manufacturers or if any of the contract manufacturers, which work with our OEM customers, experience financial or other difficulties in their businesses, our revenue and our business could be adversely affected. In particular, if one of our OEM customer’s contract manufacturers becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings, neither we nor our OEM customer may be able to obtain any of our products held by the contract manufacturer. In addition, we may not be able to recover any payments owed to us by the contract manufacturer for products already delivered or recover the products held in the contract manufacturer’s inventory when the bankruptcy proceeding is initiated. If we are unable to deliver our products to our OEM customers in a timely manner, our business would be adversely affected. The average selling prices of our products may decline, which could reduce our revenue and gross margin. In our experience the average selling prices of our products and the RMI products sold by RMI have declined over the course of their commercial lives, principally due to the supply of competing products, reduction in demand from customers, pressure from customers to reduce prices and product cycle changes; we expect these trends to continue. In addition, under our master purchase agreements with Cisco, we agreed to provide to Cisco all price decreases that we achieve, and granted to Cisco the right (under limited circumstances) to purchase our products directly from our manufacturers (subject to payments to us, net of specified costs). Declining average selling prices can adversely affect our future operating results. To maintain acceptable operating results, we will need to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continue to reduce our costs. If we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes and achieving corresponding production cost reductions, or if we fail to develop and introduce new products and enhancements on a timely basis, our revenue and operating results will suffer. We rely on third parties for the manufacture of our products, and a significant increase in wafer pricing or our failure to secure sufficient capacity could limit our growth and adversely affect our operating results. As a fabless semiconductor company, we rely on third-party wafer foundries to manufacture our products. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of the wafer foundries, including TSMC, and United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC. Neither TSMC nor UMC is obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. As a result, there are numerous risks associated with our reliance on these wafer foundries, including the possibilities that TSMC or UMC may give higher priority to their other customers or that our relationships with either wafer foundry may deteriorate. We cannot assure you that TSMC and UMC will continue to provide us with our products at acceptable yields or in sufficient quantities, for reasonable costs and on a timely basis to meet our customers’ needs. A failure to ensure the timely fabrication of our products could cause us to lose customers and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If either wafer foundry, and in particular TSMC, ceases to provide us with required production capacity with respect to our products, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain manufacturing capacity from other wafer foundries on commercially reasonable terms or that these arrangements, if established, will result in the successful manufacturing of our products. These arrangements might require us to share our technology and might be subject to unilateral termination by the wafer foundries. Even if such capacity is available from another manufacturer, we would need to convert the production of our integrated circuits to a new fabrication process and qualify the other manufacturer, which process could take nine months or longer. Furthermore, we may not be able to identify or qualify manufacturing sources that would be able to produce wafers with acceptable manufacturing yields. Additionally, some of the network search engine products we acquired from IDT are manufactured for us by IDT at their wafer fabrication facilities. While IDT is contratually obligated to manufacture for us certain quantities of these products, we canno assure you that IDT will continue to honor these commitments, that IDT's fabrication facility will remain in business or that IDT will be able to always meet our production demands which may adversly impact our operating results. 22 Table of Contents We also rely on third parties for other products and services, including the assembly, testing and packing of our products, and engineering services, and any failure by third parties to provide the tools and services we require could limit our growth and adversely affect our future operating results. Our products are assembled and tested by third-party vendors that require the use of high performance assembly and test equipment. In addition, in connection with the design of our products, we use software tools, which we obtain from third party software vendors, for simulation, layout and other design purposes. Our reliance on independent assembly, testing, software and other vendors involves a number of risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of these third party vendors. As a result, most of these third party vendors are not obligated to provide products or perform services to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. The inability of these third party vendors to deliver high performance products or services of acceptable quality and in a timely manner, could lengthen our design cycle, result in the loss of our customers and reduce our revenue. We also rely on third party component suppliers to provide custom designed integrated circuit packages for our products. In some instances, these package designs are provided by a single supplier. Our reliance on these suppliers involves a number of risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of these package vendors. As a result, most of these third party vendors are not obligated to provide products or perform services to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. The inability of these third party vendors to deliver packages of acceptable quality and in a timely manner, particularly the sole source vendors, could adversely affect our delivery commitments and adversely affect our operating results or cause them to fluctuate more than anticipated. Additionally, these packages may require specialized or high-performance component parts that may not be available in quantities or in time frames that meet our requirements or the anticipated requirement of our customers. In connection with the design of our products, we have and may license third party intellectual property, and use third party engineering services. Our reliance on these third party intellectual property and engineering services providers involves a number of risks, including reduced control over and quality of the intellectual property and service deliverables, quality and costs. The inability of these third party providers to deliver high performance products or services of acceptable quality and in a timely manner, could lengthen our design cycle, result in the loss of our customers and reduce our revenue. Our costs may increase substantially if the wafer foundries, assembly and test vendors that supply and test our products do not achieve satisfactory product yields, reliability or quality. The wafer fabrication process is an extremely complicated process where the slightest changes in the design, specifications or materials can result in material decreases in manufacturing yields or even the suspension of production. From time to time, we and our wafer foundries have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields related to errors or problems in our wafer foundries’ manufacturing processes or the interrelationship of their processes with our designs. In some cases, our wafer foundries may not be able to detect these defects early in the fabrication process or determine the cause of such defects in a timely manner, which may affect the quality or reliability of our products. We may incur substantial research and development expense for prototype or development stage products as we qualify the products for production. Generally, in pricing our products, we assume that manufacturing, assembly and test yields will continue to increase, even as the complexity of our products increases. Once our products are initially qualified with our wafer foundries, minimum acceptable yields are established. We are responsible for the costs of the wafers if the actual yield is above the minimum. If actual yields are below the minimum, we are not required to purchase the wafers. The minimum acceptable yields for our new products are generally lower at first and increase as we achieve full production. Whether as a result of a design defect or manufacturing, assembly or test error, unacceptably low product yields or other product manufacturing, assembly or test problems could substantially increase the overall production time and costs and adversely impact our operating results on sales of our products. Product yield losses will increase our costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition to significantly harming our operating results and cash flow, poor yields may delay shipment of our products and harm our relationships with existing and potential customers. 23 Table of Contents To be successful we must continue to develop and have manufactured for us, innovative products to meet the evolving requirements of networking OEMs. To remain competitive, we devote substantial resources to research and development, both to improve our existing technology and to develop new technology. We also seek to improve the manufacturing processes for our products, including the use of smaller process geometries, which we believe is important for our products to serve our OEM customers’ requirements for enhanced processing. Our failure to migrate our products to processes at smaller process geometries could substantially reduce the future competitiveness of our products. In addition, from time to time, we may have to redesign some of our products or modify the manufacturing process for them. We cannot give you any assurance that we will be able to improve our existing technology or develop and integrate new technology into our products. Even if we design better products, we may encounter problems during the manufacturing or assembly process, including reduced manufacturing yields, production delays and increased expenses, all of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, given the highly complex nature of these products, even the slightest change or adjustment to our integrated circuit designs could require substantial resources to implement them. We may not be able to make these changes or adjustments to our products or correct any errors or defects arising from their implementation. Failure to make these changes or adjustments or correct these errors or defects during the product development stages, or any resulting delays, could severely harm our existing and potential customer relationships and could likely increase our development costs, adversely affecting our operating results. If these changes, adjustments, errors or defects are not identified or requested until after commercial production has begun or after products have been delivered to customers, we may be required to re-test existing inventory, replace products already shipped or re-design the products, all of which would likely result in significant time delays and additional costs and expenses. We have sustained substantial losses from low production yields in the past and may incur such losses in the future. Designing and manufacturing integrated circuits is a difficult, complex and costly process. Once research and development has been completed and the foundry begins to produce commercial volumes of the new integrated circuit, products still may contain errors or defects that could adversely affect product quality and reliability. We have experienced low yields and have incurred substantial research and development expenses in the design and initial production phases of all of our products, and similar problems have historically been experienced in the production of the RMI products by RMI. We cannot assure you that we will not experience low yields, substantial research and development expenses, product quality, reliability or design problems, or other material problems with our products that we have shipped or may ship in the future. If we fail to retain key personnel and hire additional personnel, our business and growth could be negatively affected. Our business has been dependent to a significant degree upon the services of a small number of executive officers and technical employees. We generally do not have non-competition agreements or term employment agreements with any of our executive officers, whom we generally employ at will. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on the lives of any of our key personnel. The loss of any of these individuals could negatively impact our technology development efforts and our ability to service our existing customers and obtain new customers. Our future growth will also depend, in part, upon our ability to recruit and retain other qualified managers, engineers and sales and marketing personnel. There is intense competition for these individuals in our industry, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in recruiting and retaining these individuals. If we are unable to recruit and retain these individuals, our technology development and sales and marketing efforts could be negatively impacted. 24 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain competitive equity compensation packages for our employees, or if our stock price declines materially for a protracted period of time, we might have difficulty retaining our employees and our business may be harmed. In today’s competitive technology industry, employment decisions of highly skilled personnel are influenced by equity compensation packages, which offer incentives above traditional compensation only where there is a consistent, long-term upward trend over time of a company’s stock price. If our stock price declines due to market conditions, investors’ perceptions of the technology industry or managerial or performance problems we have, our equity compensation incentives, especially stock options may lose value to key employees, and we may lose these employees or be forced to grant additional equity compensation incentives to retain them. This in turn could result in: • immediate and substantial dilution to investors resulting from the grant of additional equity awards necessary to retain employees; and • potential compensation charges against the company, which could negatively impact our operating results. Additionally, if we fail to provide an adequate amount of equity consideration to new and existing employees we may be unable to compete for new talent and retain our existing talent. The number of shares available for grant under our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) may not be adequate enough to continue to enable us to competitively compensate our employees, and if we are unable to obtain from our stockholders an increase in the number of shares authorized under the Plan either in fiscal year 2010 or fiscal year 2011, we may not be able to retain our employees which could significantly impact our operating results. A failure to successfully address the potential difficulties associated with international business could reduce our growth, increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business. We conduct a significant amount of our business with companies that operate primarily outside of the United States, and intend to increase sales to companies operating outside of the United States. For example, our customers based outside the United States accounted for 75%, 67% and 56% of our total revenue during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Not only are many of our customers located abroad, but our two wafer foundries are based in Taiwan, and we outsource the assembly and some of the testing of our products to companies based in Taiwan and Hong Kong. We face a variety of challenges in doing business internationally, including: • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • compliance with local laws and regulations that we not be familiar with; • unanticipated changes in local regulations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, such as withholding taxes; • timing and availability of export and import licenses; • political and economic instability; • reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; and • additional financial risks, such as potentially longer and more difficult collection periods. Because we anticipate that we will continue to rely heavily on foreign based customers for our future growth, the occurrence of any of the circumstances identified above could significantly increase our operating costs, delay the timing of our revenue and harm our business and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents We must design our products to meet the needs of our OEM customers and convince them to use our products, or our revenue will be adversely affected. In general, our OEM customers design our products into their equipment during the early stages of their development after an in-depth technical evaluation of both our and our competitors’ products. These design wins are critical to the success of our business. In competing for design wins, if a competitor’s product is already designed into the product offering of a potential customer, it becomes very difficult for us to sell our products to that customer. Changing suppliers involves additional cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. In addition, our products must comply with the continually evolving specifications of our OEMs. Our ability to compete in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to comply with these specifications. As a result, we expect to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to design our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. Even if an OEM designs our products into its systems, we cannot assure you that its systems will be commercially successful or that we will receive significant revenue from sales our products for those systems. Factors that negatively affect the businesses of our targeted OEMs that use or could use our products could negatively impact our total revenue. The timing and amount of our revenue depend on the ability of our targeted OEMs who use our products to market, produce and ship systems incorporating our technology. Factors that negatively affect a significant customer or group of customers could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Many issues beyond our control influence the success of our targeted OEMs that use our products, including, for example, the highly competitive environment in which they operate, the strength of the markets for their products, their engineering capabilities, their ability or inability to obtain other components from other suppliers, the compatibility of any of their other components with our products, the impact of a worldwide recession on their capital spending and sales of their equipment, and their financial and other resources. Likewise, we have no control over their product development or pricing strategies, which directly affect sales of their products and, in turn, our revenue. A decline in sales of our OEM customers’ systems that use our products would reduce our revenue. In addition, seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for their products could cause our operating results to fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to fall. We have a lengthy sales cycle, which may result in significant expenses that do not generate significant revenue or delayed revenue generation from our selling efforts and limits our ability to forecast our revenue. We expect that our product sales cycle, which results in our products being designed into our customers’ products, could take over 24 months. It can take an additional nine months to reach volume production of these products. A number of factors can contribute to the length of the sales cycle, including technical evaluations of our products by our OEMs, the design process required to integrate our products into our OEM customers’ products and the timing of our OEMs’ new product announcements. In anticipation of product orders, we may incur substantial costs before the sales cycle is complete and before we receive any customer payments. As a result, in the event that a sale is not completed or is cancelled or delayed, we may have incurred substantial expenses, making it more difficult for us to become profitable or otherwise negatively impacting our financial results. Furthermore, because of our lengthy sales cycle, our receipt of revenue from our selling efforts may be substantially delayed, our ability to forecast our future revenue may be more limited and our revenue may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we have to satisfy product warranty or liability claims. If our products are defective or malfunction, we could be subject to product warranty or product liability claims that could have significant related warranty charges or warranty reserves in our financial statements. Further, we may spend significant resources investigating potential product design, quality and reliability claims, which could result in additional charges in our financial statements until such claims are resolved. We cannot guarantee that warranty reserves will either increase or decrease in future periods. Further, in connection with the master purchase agreements that we entered into with Cisco in 2005, we agreed to extended product warranties for the benefit of Cisco. Specifically, we agreed to general three-year warranties and, in the case of epidemic failures, to five-year warranties. In addition, under the Cisco agreements, we have agreed to indemnify Cisco for costs incurred in rectifying epidemic failures, up to the greater of (on a per claim basis) 25% of all amounts paid to us by Cisco during the preceding 12 months (approximately, $15.4 million at December 31, 2009) or $9.0 million, plus replacement costs. If we are required to make payments under this indemnity, our operating results may be adversely affected. Moreover, these claims in the future, regardless of their outcome, could adversely affect our business. 26 Table of Contents Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, on a quarterly or annual basis, causing volatility in our stock price. Our total revenue and operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. As a result, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our total revenue and operating results could negatively affect the trading price of our stock. In addition, our total revenue and results of operations may, in the future, be below the expectations set by us or of analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Factors that are likely to cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate include, for example, the periodic costs associated with the generation of mask sets for new products and product improvements and the risk factors discussed throughout this section. Additional factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate from period to period include: • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • the timing and volume of orders received from our customers; • market demand for, and changes in the average selling prices of, our products; • the rate of qualification and adoption of our products by networking OEMs; • fluctuating demand for, and lengthy life cycles of, the products and systems that incorporate our products; • the market success of the OEMs’ systems that incorporate our products; • the ability of our wafer foundries to supply us with production capacity and finished products to sell to our OEM customers; • changes in the level of our costs and operating expenses; • our ability to receive our manufactured products from our wafer foundries and ship them within a particular reporting period; • deferrals or cancellations of customer orders in anticipation of the development and commercialization of new technologies or for other reasons; • changes in our product lines and revenue mix; • the timing of the introduction by others of competing, replacement or substitute products technologies; • our ability or the ability of our OEM customers that use our products to procure required components or fluctuations in the cost of such components; • cyclical fluctuations in semiconductor or networking markets; and • general economic conditions that may affect end-user demand for products that use our products. In addition, RMI’s business has historically been subject to seasonality, which may cause us to experience greater fluctuation of our revenues following the acquisition. 27 Table of Contents The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the networking markets could adversely affect our operating results and our business. We expect our business to be subject to the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry, especially the market for communications integrated circuits. Historically, there have been significant downturns in this industry segment, characterized by reduced demand for integrated circuits and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. At times, these downturns have lasted for prolonged periods of time. Furthermore, from time to time, the semiconductor industry also has experienced periods of increased demand and production constraints, in which event we may not be able to have our products produced in sufficient quantities, if at all, to satisfy our customers’ needs. It is likely that the communications integrated circuit business will experience similar downturns in the future and that, during such times, our business could be affected adversely. It is also likely that the semiconductor industry will experience periods of strong demand. We may have difficulty in obtaining enough products to sell to our customers or may face substantial increases in the wafer prices charged by our foundries. In addition, the networking industry from time to time has experienced and may experience a pronounced downturn. To respond to a downturn, many networking service providers may be required to slow their research and development activities, cancel or delay new product developments, reduce their workforces and inventories and take a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies from networking OEMs, which would have a significant negative impact on our business. In the future, a downturn in the networking industry may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from year to year, which also may tend to increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. We may not be able to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, which could impair our ability to compete and reduce the value of our technology. Our success and future revenue growth depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. However, these measures may not provide meaningful protection for our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from any of our pending applications. Any rights granted under any of our existing or future patents may not provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. For example, such patents could be challenged or circumvented by our competitors or declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. The failure of any patents to adequately protect our technology would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products. We do not have foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to many of our U.S. patents and patent applications, including in some foreign countries where our products are sold or may be sold in the future. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. With respect to our other proprietary rights, it may be possible for third parties to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology or marks without authorization or to develop similar technology independently. Monitoring unauthorized use of our proprietary technology or marks is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technology or marks. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available or may be limited in certain foreign countries. Many companies based in the U.S. have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries, including countries in which we sell products. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could reduce the value of our technology and could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, we have in the past and may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may in the future initiate litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers or to protect our trade secrets. Litigation by us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and could materially and adversely affect our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. 28 Table of Contents Any claim that our products or our proprietary technology infringe third party intellectual property rights could increase our costs of operation and distract management and could result in expensive settlement costs. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to intellectual property rights. In addition, we have received notices from time to time that claim we have infringed upon or misappropriated intellectual property rights owned by others. We typically respond when appropriate and as advised by legal counsel. We cannot assure you that parties will not pursue litigation with respect to those allegations. We may, in the future, receive similar notices, any of which could lead to litigation against us. For example, parties may initiate litigation based on allegations that we have infringed their intellectual property rights or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets or may seek to invalidate or otherwise render unenforceable one or more of our patents. Litigation against us can result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our management, technical, marketing and other personnel, whether or not the litigation results in a determination adverse to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to prevail or settle any such claims or that we will be able to do so at a reasonable cost. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages for past infringement and royalties for any future use of the technology. In addition, we may be required to cease the sale of certain products, recall certain products from the market, redesign certain products offered for sale or under development or cease the use of certain marks or names. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully redesign our products or do so at a reasonable cost. Additionally, we have in the past sought and may in the future seek to obtain a license to a third party’s intellectual rights and have granted and may in the future grant a license to certain of our intellectual property rights to a third party in connection with a cross-license agreement or a settlement of claims or actions asserted against us. However, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all Our customers could also become the target of litigation relating to the patent and other intellectual property rights of others. This could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our license or customer agreements. These obligations could result in substantial expenses, including the payment by us of costs and damages related to claims of patent infringement. In addition to the time and expense required for us to provide support or indemnification to our customers, any such litigation could disrupt the businesses of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause the sale of our products to decrease. We cannot assure you that claims for indemnification will not be made or that if made, such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We do not have any insurance coverage for intellectual property infringement claims for which we may be obligated to provide indemnification. If we are obligated to pay damages in excess of, or otherwise outside of, our insurance coverage, or if we have to settle these claims, our operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenue and market share may be reduced. Our business is extremely competitive, especially during the design-in phase of our customers’ design cycles. We compete with large semiconductor manufacturers, many of which have more established reputations, more diverse customer bases and greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, our OEM customers may design their own integrated circuits to address their system needs. As we develop new applications for our products and expand into new markets, we expect to face even greater competition. Our present and future competitors may be able to better anticipate customer and industry demands and to respond more quickly and efficiently to those demands, such as with product offerings, financial discounts or other incentives. Furthermore, our OEM customers may be able develop or acquire integrated circuits that satisfy their needs faster or most cost effectively than we can. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively against these and our other competitors. If we do not compete effectively, our revenue and market share may decline. 29 Table of Contents Our success may depend on our ability to comply with new or evolving industry standards applicable to our products or our business. Our ability to compete in the future may depend on our ability to ensure that our products comply with evolving industry standards affecting our customers’ equipment and other markets in which we compete. In addition, from time to time, new industry standards may emerge which could render our products incompatible with the products of our customers or suppliers. In order to ensure compliance with the relevant standards, we may be required to devote significant time, capital and other resources to modify or redesign our existing products or to develop new products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop products which comply with prevailing standards. If we are unable to develop these products in a timely manner, we may miss significant business opportunities, and our revenue and operating results could suffer. If an earthquake or other natural disaster disrupts the operations of our third party wafer foundries or other vendors located in high risk regions, we could experience significant delays in the production or shipment of our products. TSMC and UMC, which manufacture our products, along with most of our vendors who handle the assembly and testing of our products, are located in Asia. The risk of an earthquake in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines. In September 1999, a major earthquake in Taiwan affected the facilities of several of these third party vendors, as well as other providers of these services. As a result of this earthquake, these vendors suffered power outages and disruptions that impaired their production capacity. In March 2002 and September 2003, additional earthquakes occurred in Taiwan. The occurrence of additional earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in the disruption of the wafer foundry or assembly and test capacity of the third parties that supply these services to us. We may not be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms, if at all. Any future acquisitions we make could disrupt our business, and harm our financial condition and dilute our stockholders. In the future, we may consider additional opportunities to acquire other businesses or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. Acquisitions present a significant number of potential challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs, reduce the value to us of the acquired company or business, including: • integration of the acquired employees, operations, technologies and products with our existing business and products; • focusing management’s time and attention on our existing core business; • retention of business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; • entering markets in which we may lack prior experience; • retention of key employees of the acquired company or business; • amortization of intangible assets, write-offs, stock-based compensation and other charges relating to the acquired business and our acquisition costs; and • dilution to our existing stockholders from the issuance of additional shares of common stock or reduction of earnings per outstanding share in connection with an acquisition that fails to increase the value of our company. We cannot provide assurances, however, that this acquisition or future acquisitions that we might make will achieve our business objectives or increase our value or the price of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR RECENT ACQUISITION OF RMI CORPORATION The integration of RMI may not be completed successfully, cost-effectively or on a timely basis. As a result of our acquisition of RMI in October 2009, we have significantly more assets, operations and employees to manage than we did prior to the acquisition. The integration process has required us to significantly expand the scope of our operations and financial systems, and there is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. These difficulties include, among others: • the diversion of management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined company; • the assimilation of RMI employees and the integration of two business cultures; • challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; • the integration of information, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems; • challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and • challenges in combining product offerings and sales and marketing activities. There is no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate RMI’s operations with our own. For example, the costs of achieving systems integration may substantially exceed our current estimates. As a non-public company, RMI did not have to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for internal control and other procedures. Integrating its systems and activities with ours in order to ensure our continued compliance with those requirements may continue to cause us to incur substantial additional expense. In addition, the integration process may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. If our management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We may not be able to realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits we expect to achieve from the acquisition of RMI within the timeframe that is currently expected, or at all. Strategic transactions like our acquisition of RMI create numerous uncertainties and risks. As a result, the combined company may not be able to realize the expected revenue growth and other benefits and synergies that we sought to achieve from the acquisition. We believe that the businesses conducted by us and RMI prior to the merger were complementary in a number of respects and that the combined company can take advantage of synergies, economies of scale and other benefits in the following areas, among others: • market expansion; • increased sales to existing customers; • product and technology synergies; • operational and manufacturing synergies; • research and development synergies; • expansion of intellectual property and patent portfolio; • geographic synergies; and • cultural synergies. However, these anticipated benefits and synergies are based on projections and assumptions, not actual experience, and actual results may deviate from our expectations for a variety of reasons, including those discussed in this section. 31 Table of Contents We may not be successful in our expansion into the current markets for RMI products and in addressing the new opportunities we expect to arise out of the combination. RMI historically designed and developed high performance, power-optimized processor solutions for several target markets: infrastructure equipment, enterprise systems, security and storage appliances, data center systems and industrial and connected media devices. Because the RMI products serve some different markets than our products historically did, we did not have experience competing in these prior to the acquisition. The success of our expansion into these new markets will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to leverage each company’s successes to provide synergistic solutions to key customers and applications; • our ability to assimilate and retain key RMI personnel who have expertise in conducting RMI’s business; • our ability to preserve and grow RMI’s existing customer, distributor and ecosystem partner relationships; • our ability to design and develop innovative products and solutions in these new markets and to continue RMI’s success in achieving “design wins” with key customers; • our ability to provide high quality customer services and support; and • our ability to compete effectively against a larger number and broader range of competitors resulting from our entry into new markets. In addition to the current markets for RMI products, we believe that the combined company is poised to address new opportunities in areas such as high-performance switching and routing control plane processing and the high-volume, ultra low-power embedded processing market for enterprise, industrial and connected media applications. If we are unsuccessful in expanding into these new market opportunities, we may not achieve the sales and revenue growth we had expected from the acquisition. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue or expand upon RMI’s past success with customer design wins following the acquisition. RMI achieved strategic design wins at a wide range of leading customers such as Alcatel-Lucent, Aruba, CheckPoint, Cisco, Datang Mobile, Dell, Fujitsu, HP, Huawei, Huawei-Symantec, Hangzhou H3C Technologies Co. Ltd, IBM, Juniper, LG, McAfee, Motorola, NEC, Samsung, Sun and ZTE, among others. There is no assurance that we will be able to replicate or improve upon RMI’s success in obtaining design wins from these and other customers following the acquisition. This uncertainty is compounded by the fact that RMI does not have long-term commitments from any of its existing customers. These product design processes can be lengthy, as the customers of RMI products usually require a comprehensive technical evaluation of its products before they incorporate them into their designs. If a customer’s system designer initially chooses a competitor’s product, it becomes significantly more difficult to sell RMI’s products for use in that system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for RMI’s customers. Our failure to win a competitive design opportunity can result in foregoing revenues from a given customer’s product line for the life of that product. In addition, design opportunities may be infrequent or may be delayed. We expect to invest significant time and resources and to incur significant expenses to design RMI products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications, but even with these efforts we may have limited success in securing customer design wins for a number of reasons, including our management’s lack of experience with the markets served by RMI’s products, our failure to retain key RMI personnel involved in the customer design process and our failure to establish employee incentives and otherwise operate the RMI business in a manner that continues to place high priority on customer design wins. Our ability to compete in the markets in which RMI competed will depend, in large part, on our ability to continue to design products to ensure compliance with RMI customers’ and potential customers’ specifications and to secure design wins. 32 Table of Contents Even if we are successful in achieving customer design wins for RMI products, we may not realize the revenue growth and other benefits we expect to achieve from the acquisition. The nature of the design process for RMI products requires that significant expenses be incurred prior to recognizing revenues associated with those expenses, which may harm our financial results. Even if a customer designs one of RMI’s products into its product offering, we cannot be assured that its product will be commercially successful, that we will receive any revenues from that manufacturer or that a successor design will include an RMI product. As a result, we may be unable to accurately forecast the volume and timing of orders and revenues associated with any new product introductions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to realize the revenue growth we expect to achieve from customer design wins for RMI products, we may not achieve the operational results we anticipate following the acquisition and our business may be adversely impacted. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration for the semiconductor solutions provided by RMI products, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, increased expenses and loss of design wins and sales. We have substantial experience in transitioning the manufacturing processes for our products to each new generation of smaller geometry process technologies and believes that it will be necessary to migrate RMI’s products to such smaller geometries as well. Any transition would require us to redesign the applicable product and require us and our foundry partners to use new or modified manufacturing processes for the product. The smallest geometry process that RMI used for any semiconductors is 80 nanometer, but we expect the next generation semiconductors to be based on a 40 nanometer process. Because of our lack of experience with the RMI products and technology, we may not be as successful in migrating these products to smaller geometry process technologies as we have been with our own products. We will also depend on our relationships with foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. If we experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration for RMI products, we may experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, increased expenses and loss of design wins and sales, any of which could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits from the acquisition. We expect to rely on third-party technologies for the development of the RMI products, and our inability to use these technologies in the future could harm our ability to compete in the markets for these products. We rely on third parties for technologies that are integrated into the RMI products, such as wafer fabrication and assembly and test technologies used by its contract manufacturers, as well as licensed MIPS architecture technologies. If we are unable to continue to use or license these technologies on reasonable terms, or if these technologies fail to operate properly following the acquisition, we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner, and our ability to remain competitive in the markets served by these products would be harmed. In addition, the MIPS license requires that certain improvements be made available to the community of all of MIPS’ licensees, which could conceivably reduce the proprietary advantage that we will have with this architecture. If we are unable to license technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms in order to continue to develop current products or to develop future products for the markets served by the RMI products, we may not be able to develop these products in a timely manner or at all. Our operating results will depend in part on the growth of developing sectors of the connected media market historically served by RMI. The RMI business has been highly dependent on developing sectors of the connected media market, including portable media players, personal navigation devices, automobile infotainment devices and home media players. The connected media market is highly competitive and is characterized by, among other things, frequent introductions of new products and short product life cycles. If the target markets for the RMI products within these markets do not grow as rapidly or to the extent anticipated, the combined company’s business could suffer. RMI derived a significant portion of its revenues from the sale of its semiconductor solutions for use in emerging connected media applications. Our ability to sustain and increase revenue is in large part dependent on the continued growth of these rapidly evolving market sectors, whose future is largely uncertain. Many factors could impede or interfere with the expansion of these connected media market sectors, including a slowdown in overall consumer spending, consumer demand in these sectors, general economic conditions, other competing consumer electronic products and insufficient interest in new technology innovations. Any of these dynamics in the consumer electronics market could harm future sales of the RMI products and prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of RMI. 33 Table of Contents We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in foreign markets. Because we incorporate encryption technology into our multi-core products, some of these products are subject to United States export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to introduce products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or an inability to export or sell our products to, existing or prospective customers with international operations and harm our business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK In connection with our acquisition of RMI in October 2009, we issued a substantial number of shares of common stock around the time of closing and we may be required to additional shares before December 31, 2010, which would further dilute the ownership interests of our other stockholders. In connection with the acquisition of RMI, we issued or reserved for issuance 5.0 million shares of our common stock at closing as merger consideration to RMI stockholders and as incentive stock awards to RMI employees. We may be required issue up to 1.6 million additional shares to former RMI stockholders as earn-out consideration before December 31, 2010, if the maximum earn-out is achieved. Our issuance of additional shares of common stock as earn-out consideration may result in substantial percentage dilution of the ownership interests of our other stockholders at that time. Our issuance of shares in connection with the RMI acquisition also may have an adverse impact on our net earnings per share in fiscal periods that include (or follow) the date of the acquisition, as we anticipate that the transaction will be dilutive on the basis of net earnings per common share for the foreseeable future following the acquisition. The price of our stock could decrease as a result of shares being sold in the market, including sales by former RMI stockholders who received shares in connection with our acquisition of RMI. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock from time to time. Substantially all the shares of our common stock currently outstanding are eligible for sale in the public market but sales by our affiliates will be subject to conditions of Rule 144 (other than holding period requirements) including the volume restrictions set forth in SEC Rule 144(e). Additionally, as the shares of common stock we issued in our acquisition of RMI become eligible for resale, the sale of those shares could adversely impact our stock price. All of the shares of our common stock issued as merger consideration on the closing date are subject to a complete trading lock-up through April 30, 2010, and 50% of those shares will be subject to a complete trading lock-up through October 30, 2010. In addition, 50% of the restricted stock units that we issued to certain RMI employees at closing will vest on April 30, 2010 and the remaining 50% will vest on October 30, 2010. These equity incentive shares will be registered and will therefore generally not be subject to resale restrictions under federal securities laws. Accordingly, a substantial number of shares of our common stock will become eligible for resale on April 30 and October 30, 2010. Our stock price may suffer a significant decline as a result of the sudden increase in the number of shares sold in the public market or market perception that the increased number of shares available for sale will exceed the demand for our common stock. Our stock price could drop, and there could be significantly less trading activity in our stock, if securities or industry analysts downgrade our stock or do not publish research or reports about our business. Our stock price and the trading market for our stock are likely to be affected significantly by the research and reports concerning our company and our business which are published by industry and securities analysts. We do not have any influence or control over these analysts, their reports or their recommendations. Our stock price and the trading market for our stock could be negatively affected if any analyst downgrades our stock, publishes a report which is critical of our business, or discontinues coverage of us. Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. Such volatility may occur in the future, particularly because of quarter-to-quarter variations in our actual or anticipated financial results, or the reported financial results of other semiconductor companies or our customers. Stock price volatility may also result from product announcements by us or our competitors, or from changes in perceptions about the various types of products we manufacture and sell. In addition, our stock price may fluctuate due to price and volume fluctuations in the stock market, especially in the technology sector. 34 Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and customer agreements might delay or prevent a change of control transaction and depress the market price of our stock. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors, limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings and establish specific procedures for director nominations by stockholders and the submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law which could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. In particular, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless specific conditions are met. Any of these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including, without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. Our board of directors might issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval on such terms as the board might determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and might be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that might be issued in the future. Under our master purchase agreements with Cisco, in the event of, among other things, the transfer of at least 50% of our voting control to a Cisco competitor that generates less than 50% of its annual sales from integrated circuit products, Cisco may exercise rights to purchase our knowledge-based processors directly from our manufacturers, subject to payments to us. This provision may discourage or complicate attempts by some third parties to acquire us. 35 Table of Contents Our stockholder rights plan could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price for their shares from a potential acquirer. We adopted a stockholder rights plan that generally entitles our stockholders to rights to acquire additional shares of our common stock when a third party acquires 15.0% of our common stock or commences or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for at least 15.0% of our common stock, other than for certain stockholders that were stockholders prior to our initial public offering as to whom this threshold is 20.0%. This plan could delay, deter or prevent an investor from acquiring us in a transaction that could otherwise result in stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. We may need to obtain financing in order to fund our growth strategy. We believe that we have or will have access to capital sufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, it may become necessary for us to raise additional funds to support our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing when needed or that, if available to us, the terms will be acceptable to us. If we issue equity securities in any financing, the new securities may have rights and preferences senior to our shares of common stock, and the ownership interest in us of our current stockholders will be proportionately reduced. If we issued debt securities, they will rank senior to all equity securities. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy, and our business could be harmed significantly. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the amount of revenue we generate, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of introductions of new products, the costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity, and the continuing market acceptance of our products, and any future business acquisitions that we might undertake. However, if we do not meet our plan, we could be required, or might elect, to seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing and additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also might decide to raise additional capital at such times and upon such terms as management considers favorable and in the interests of the Company. We may sell up to approximately an additional $120 million of our debt and/or equity securities (before reductions for expenses, underwriting discounts and commissions) under our existing shelf registration statement on Form S-3 which may result in an increase in the number of shares and decline in earnings per share. We may sell these securities from time-to-time without prior announcement. 36 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following table provides the names, ages and offices of each of our executive officers as of January 31, 2010: Title Age Position Ronald Jankov 51 Director, Chief Executive Officer and President Behrooz Abdi 48 Executive Vice President and General Manager Michael Tate 44 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Marcia Zander 46 Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales Varadarajan Sirnivasan 58 Vice President of Product Development and Chief Technical Officer Dimitrios Dimitrelis 52 Vice President of Engineering Mozfar Maghsoudnia 43 Vice President of Worldwide Manufacturing Ibrahim Korgav 61 Senior Vice President of Worldwide Business Operations Chris O'Reilly 36 Vice President of Marketing Roland Cortes 44 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Ronald Jankov has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our board of directors since April 2000. Behrooz Abdi has served as our Executive Vice President and General Manager in charge of our MPS/CPS business since November 2009. From November 2007 to October 2009, Mr. Abdi was President and Chief Executive Officer of RMI Corporation. From March 2004 to November 2007, Mr. Abdi was Senior Vice President and General Manager of Qualcomm CDMA Technologies at Qualcomm, Inc. Prior to Qualcomm, Mr. Abdi held leadership and engineering positions at Motorola in its Semiconductor Products Sector, now Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. His last role at Motorola was Vice President and General Manager for the Radio Products Division from July 1985 to December 2003. Michael Tate has served as our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer since July 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Tate was interim chief financial officer, vice president, corporate controller, and treasurer at Marvell Technology Group Ltd. He joined Marvell in January 2001 as part of Marvell’s acquisition of Galileo Technology Ltd. Marcia Zander has served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales since January 2006 and Vice President of Sales since July 1999. Varadarajan Srinivasan has served as our Vice President of Product Development since March 1996, as our Chief Technical Officer since August 2000. Dimitrios Dimitrelis has served as our Vice President of Engineering since July 2002. From July 1999 to March 2002, Mr. Dimitrelis was Director of Engineering for Vitesse Semiconductor Corp., a communications integrated circuit company, where he was primarily responsible for the development of a 10G network processor. Mozafar Maghsoudnia has served as our Vice President of Worldwide Manufacturing since January 2007, as Vice President of Manufacturing since August 2006, and Director of Technology since June 2003. From June 1988 to June 2003, Mr. Maghsoudnia was employed by Analog Devices, Inc., where he was responsible for wafer fabrication and technology in his last assignment. Ibrahim Korgav has served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Business Operations since January 2007 and as our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing and Business Operations from March 2002 to January 2007. Chris O’Reilly has served as our Vice President of Marketing since August 2007. Prior to August 2007, Mr. O’Reilly served as our senior director of marketing, director of sales for the Asia Pacific region and senior marketing manager since 1999. Roland Cortes has served as our Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since April 2007. Prior to April 2007, Mr. Cortes served as our Secretary since May 2004, as our Senior Director of Legal Affairs and IP Management since July 2002, and as our Director of Legal Affairs and IP Management since April 1999. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 