ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition or stock price could suffer significantly. We derive most of our revenue from sales of products for use predominantly in networking systems, and if demand for these products does not grow, we may not achieve our growth and strategic objectives. Our products are used primarily in networking systems, including routers, switches, network access equipment and networked storage devices. We believe our future business and financial success depends on continued market acceptance and increasing sales of our knowledge-based and communication processors. In order to meet our growth and strategic objectives, networking and communications infrastructure OEMs must continue to incorporate, and increase the incorporation of, our products into their systems as their preferred means of enabling network-aware processing of IP packets, and the demand for their systems must grow as well. We cannot provide assurance that sales of products will increase substantially in the future or that the demand for our customers' systems will increase as well. Our future revenues from these products may not i ncrease in accordance with our growth and strategic objectives if the OEM customers modify their current product designs or select products sold by our competitors instead. Thus, the future success of this part of our business depends in large part on factors outside our control, and sales of our products may not meet our revenue growth and strategic objectives. Additionally, due to the high concentration of our sales with a small number of OEMs, we cannot guarantee that the demand for the systems offered by these customers will increase or that our sales will increase outside this core customer base, and, accordingly, prior quarterly or annual results may not be an indication of our future revenue growth or financial results. Because we rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our total revenue, the loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders for our products from these customers would negatively affect our total revenue and business. To date, we have been dependent on sales to a limited number of customers, including Cisco, for most of our total revenue. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, our top five customers accounted for 58%, 68% and 68% of our total revenue, respectively. Also, within those revenues, during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 Cisco and its contract manufacturers accounted for 27%, 35% and 38% of our total revenue, respectively. We expect that our future financial performance will continue to depend in large part upon our relationship with Cisco and several other large OEMs. We cannot assure you that existing or potential customers will not develop their own solutions, purchase competitive products or acquire companies that use alternative methods in their systems. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from any of our OEM customers or their contract manufacturers. Although we entered into master purchase agreements with certain significant customers including Cisco, these agreements do not include any long-term purchase commitments. Our customers generally only place with us short-term purchase orders, which often are cancelable prior to shipment. The loss of orders for our products from major customers would have a significant negative impact on our business. We face additional risks to our business success and financial condition because of our dependence on a small number of customers for sales of our products. Our dependence on a small number of customers, for most of our revenue in the foreseeable future creates additional risks for our business, including the following: • we may face increased pressure to reduce the average selling prices of our products; • we may find it difficult to pass through increases in our manufacturing and other direct costs; • the reputation of our products in the marketplace may be affected adversely if any of our large OEM customers that represent a significant percentage of our sales of products reduce or cease their use of our products; and • we may face problems in collecting a substantial portion of our accounts receivable if any of these companies faces financial difficulties or dispute payments. 10 Table of Contents While we have generated significant cash flows from operations, we reported net losses in 2010 and 2009 and had a history of net losses prior to 2005. We may incur significant net losses in the future and may not be able to sustain profitability. We reported a net loss of $66.4 million and $47.2 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. We reported net income of $3.6 million and $2.6 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively and recorded net losses in years prior to 2005. At December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $189.5 million. To regain profitability, we will have to continue to generate greater total revenue and control costs and expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate greater total revenue, or limit our costs and expenses, sufficiently to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We have used a substantial part of our cash flows from operations, and other sources of capital, to make acquisitions, with respect to which we have incurred substantial charges for amortization of intangibles, changes in contingent earn-out liability, fair value inventory adjustments and increased stock-based compensation expenses. Due to these items we have reported net losses under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles in 2010 and 2009 and significantly lower profit than would otherwise have been the case. If we continue to make acquisitions and other transactions that generate substantial expenses related to acquired intangible assets, fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and other acquisition-related items, we may not become profitable in the near term even though we otherwise meet our growth and operating objectives. Because we sell our products on a purchase order basis and rely on estimated forecasts of our customers' needs, inaccurate forecasts could adversely affect our business. We sell our products pursuant to individual purchase orders (subject to the terms of a master purchase agreement where applicable), and not pursuant to long-term purchase commitments. Therefore, we rely on estimated demand forecasts, based upon input from our customers, to determine how much product to manufacture. Because our sales are based on purchase orders, our customers may cancel, delay or otherwise modify their purchase commitments with little or no consequence to them and with little or no notice to us. For these reasons, we generally have limited visibility regarding our customers' product needs. We cannot provide assurance as to the quantities or timing required by our customers for our products. We cannot assure you that we will not experience subsequent substantial warranty claims or that warranty claims will not result in cancellation of existing orders or reluctance of customers to place future orders. In addition, the product design cycle for networking OEMs is lengthy, and it may be difficult for us to accurately anticipate when they will commence commercial shipments of products that include our products. Whether in response to changes affecting the industry or a customer's specific business pressures, any cancellation, delay or other modification in our customers' orders could significantly reduce our revenue, cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult for us to predict our revenue. In the event of a cancellation or reduction of an order, we may not have enough time to reduce operating expenses to minimize the effect of the lost revenue on our business, and we may purchase too much inventory and spend more capital than expected. If we overestimate customer demand for our products, we may purchase products from manufacturers that we may not be able to sell. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we would forego revenue opportunities and could lose market share in the markets served by our products. In addition, our inability to meet customer requirements for our products could lead to delays in product shipments, force customers to identify alternative sources and otherwise adversely affect our ongoing relationships with our customers. We are dependent on contract manufacturers for a significant portion of our revenue. Many of our OEM customers, including Cisco, use third party contract manufacturers to manufacture their systems. These contract manufacturers represented 44%, 43% and 41% of our total revenue for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Contract manufacturers purchase our products directly from us on behalf of OEMs. Although we work with our OEM customers in the design and development phases of their systems, these OEM customers are gradually giving contract manufacturers more authority in product purchasing decisions. As a result, we depend on a concentrated group of contract manufacturers for a substantial portion of our revenue. If we cannot compete effectively for the business of these contract manufacturers or if any of the contract manufacturers, which work with our OEM customers, experience financial or other difficulties in their bus inesses, our revenue and our business could be adversely affected. In particular, if one of our OEM customer's contract manufacturer becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings, neither we nor our OEM customer may be able to obtain any of our products held by the contract manufacturer. In addition, we may not be able to recover any payments owed to us by the contract manufacturer for products already delivered or recover the products held in the contract manufacturer's inventory when the bankruptcy proceeding is initiated. If we are unable to deliver our products to our OEM customers in a timely manner, our business would be adversely affected. The average selling prices of our products may decline, which could reduce our revenue and gross margin. In our experience, the average selling prices of our products have declined over the course of their commercial lives, principally due to the supply of competing products, pressure from customers to reduce prices and product cycle changes; we expect these trends to continue. Declining average selling prices can adversely affect our future operating results. To maintain acceptable operating results, we will need to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis while retaining cost competitiveness. If we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes and achieving corresponding production cost reductions, or if we fail to develop and introduce new products and enhancements on a timely basis, our revenue and operating results will suffer.< /div> 11 Table of Contents We rely on third parties for the manufacture of our products, and a significant increase in wafer pricing or our failure to secure sufficient capacity could limit our growth and adversely affect our operating results. As a fabless semiconductor company, we rely on third-party wafer foundries to manufacture our products. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of the wafer foundries, including TSMC, and United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC. Neither TSMC nor UMC is obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. As a result, there are numerous risks associated with our reliance on these wafer foundries, including the possibilities that TSMC or UMC may give higher priority to their other customers or that our relationships with either wafer foundry may deteriorate. We cannot assure you that TSMC and UMC will continue to provide us with our products at acceptable yields or in suff icient quantities, for reasonable costs and on a timely basis to meet our customers' needs. A failure to ensure the timely fabrication of our products could cause us to lose customers and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If either wafer foundry, and in particular TSMC, ceases to provide us with required production capacity with respect to our products, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain manufacturing capacity from other wafer foundries on commercially reasonable terms or that these arrangements, if established, will result in the successful manufacturing of our products. These arrangements might require us to share our technology and might be subject to unilateral termination by the wafer foundries. Even if such capacity is available from another manufacturer, we would need to convert the production of our integrated circuits to a new fabrication process and qualify the other manufacturer. Qualification of a new fabrication process or foundry could take nine months or longer. Furthermore, we may not be able to identify or qu alify manufacturing sources that would be able to produce wafers with acceptable manufacturing yields. Additionally, some of the network search engine products we acquired from IDT are manufactured for us by IDT at their wafer fabrication facilities. While IDT is contractually obligated to manufacture for us certain quantities of these products, we cannot assure you that IDT will continue to honor these commitments, that IDT's fabrication facility will remain in business or that IDT will be able to always meet our production demands which may adversely impact our operating results. We also rely on third parties for other products and services, including the assembly, testing and packing of our products, and engineering services, and any failure by third parties to provide the tools and services we require could limit our growth and adversely affect our future operating results. Our products are assembled and tested by third-party vendors that require the use of high performance assembly and test equipment. In addition, in connection with the design of our products, we use software tools, which we obtain from third party software vendors, for simulation, layout and other design purposes. Our reliance on independent assembly, testing, software and other vendors involves a number of risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of these third party vendors. As a result, most of these third party vendors are not obligated to provide products or perform services to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. The inabilit y of these third party vendors to deliver high performance products or services of acceptable quality and in a timely manner, could lengthen our design cycle, result in the loss of our customers and reduce our revenue. We also rely on third party component suppliers to provide custom designed integrated circuit packages for our products. In some instances, these package designs are provided by a single supplier. Our reliance on these suppliers involves a number of risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of these package vendors. As a result, most of these third party vendors are not obligated to provide products or perform services to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. The inability of these third party vendors to deliver packages of acceptable quality and in a timely manner, particularly the sole source vendors, could adversely aff ect our delivery commitments and adversely affect our operating results or cause them to fluctuate more than anticipated. Additionally, these packages may require specialized or high-performance component parts that may not be available in quantities or in time frames that meet our requirements or the anticipated requirement of our customers. In connection with the design of our products, we have and may license third party intellectual property, and use third party engineering services. Our reliance on these third party intellectual property and engineering services providers involves a number of risks, including reduced control over and quality of the intellectual property and service deliverables, quality and costs. The inability of these third party providers to deliver high performance products or services of acceptable quality and in a timely manner, could lengthen our design cycle, result in the loss of our customers and reduce our revenue. Our costs may increase substantially if the wafer foundries, assembly and test vendors that supply and test our products do not achieve satisfactory product yields, reliability or quality. The wafer fabrication process is an extremely complicated process where the slightest changes in the design, specifications or materials can result in material decreases in manufacturing yields or even the suspension of production. From time to time, we and our wafer foundries have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields related to errors or problems in our wafer foundries' manufacturing processes or the interrelationship of their processes with our designs. In some cases, our wafer foundries may not be able to detect these defects early in the fabrication process or determine the cause of such defects in a timely manner, which may affect the quality or reliability of our products. We may incur substantial research and development expense for prototype or development stage products as we qualify the products for production. Generally, in pricing our products, we assume that manufacturing, assembly and test yields will continue to increase, even as the complexity of our products increases. Once our products are initially qualified with our wafer foundries, minimum acceptable yields are established. We are responsible for the costs of the wafers if the actual yield is above the minimum. If actual yields are below the minimum, we are not required to purchase the wafers. The minimum acceptable yields for our new products are generally lower at first and increase as we achieve full production. Whether as a result of a design defect or manufacturing, assembly or test error, unacceptably low product yields or other product manufacturing, assembly or test problems could substantially increase the overall production time and costs and adversely impact our operatin g results on sales of our products. Product yield losses will increase our costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition to significantly harming our operating results and cash flow, poor yields may delay shipment of our products and harm our relationships with existing and potential customers. 12 Table of Contents To be successful we must continue to develop and have manufactured for us, innovative products to meet the evolving requirements of networking OEMs. To remain competitive, we devote substantial resources to research and development, both to improve our existing technology and to develop new technology. We also seek to improve the manufacturing processes for our products, including the use of smaller process geometries, which we believe is important for our products to serve our OEM customers' requirements for enhanced processing. Our failure to migrate our products to processes at smaller process geometries could substantially reduce the future competitiveness of our products. In addition, from time to time, we may have to redesign some of our products or modify the manufacturing process for them. We cannot give you any assurance that we will be able to improve our existing technology or develop and integrate new technology into our products. Even if we design better products, we m ay encounter problems during the manufacturing or assembly process, including reduced manufacturing yields, production delays and increased expenses, all of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, given the highly complex nature of these products, even the slightest change or adjustment to our integrated circuit designs could require substantial resources to implement them. We may not be able to make these changes or adjustments to our products or correct any errors or defects arising from their implementation. Failure to make these changes or adjustments or correct these errors or defects during the product development stages, or any resulting delays, could severely harm our existing and potential customer relationships and could likely increase our development costs, adversely affecting our operating results. If these changes, adjustments, errors or defects are not identified or requested until after commercial production has begun or after products have been delivered to customers, we may be required to re-test e xisting inventory, replace products already shipped or re-design the products, all of which would likely result in significant time delays and additional costs and expenses. We have sustained substantial losses from low production yields in the past and may incur such losses in the future. Designing and manufacturing integrated circuits is a difficult, complex and costly process. Once research and development has been completed and the foundry begins to produce commercial volumes of the new integrated circuit, products still may contain errors or defects that could adversely affect product quality and reliability. We have experienced low yields and have incurred substantial research and development expenses in the design and initial production phases of all of our products. We cannot assure you that we will not experience low yields, substantial research and development expenses, product quality, reliability or design problems, or other material problems with our products that we have shipped or may ship in the future. If we fail to retain key personnel and hire additional personnel, our business and growth could be negatively affected. Our business has been dependent to a significant degree upon the services of a small number of executive officers and technical employees. We generally do not have non-competition agreements or term employment agreements with any of our executive officers, whom we generally employ at will. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on the lives of any of our key personnel. The loss of any of these individuals could negatively impact our technology development efforts and our ability to service our existing customers and obtain new customers. Our future growth will also depend, in part, upon our ability to recruit and retain other qualified managers, engineers and sales and marketing personnel. There is intense competition for these individuals in our industry, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in recruiting and retaining these individuals. If we are unable to recruit and retain these individuals, our technology development and sales and marketing efforts could be negatively impacted. If we fail to maintain competitive equity compensation packages for our employees, or if our stock price declines materially for a protracted period of time, we might have difficulty retaining our employees and our business may be harmed. In today's competitive technology industry, employment decisions of highly skilled personnel are influenced by equity compensation packages, which offer incentives above traditional compensation only where there is a consistent, long-term upward trend over time of a company's stock price. If our stock price declines due to market conditions, investors' perceptions of the technology industry or managerial or performance problems we have, our equity compensation incentives, especially stock awards may lose value to key employees, and we may lose these employees or be forced to grant additional equity compensation incentives to retain them. This in turn could result in: • immediate and substantial dilution to investors resulting from the grant of additional equity awards necessary to retain employees; and • potential compensation charges against the company, which could negatively impact our operating results. Additionally, if we fail to provide an adequate amount of equity consideration to new and existing employees we may be unable to compete for new talent and retain our existing talent. Also, we have a limited number of shares available for grant under our Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and it may not be adequate to enable us to continue to competitively compensate our employees in the future, which may prevent us from retaining our employees and could significantly impact our operating results. 13 Table of Contents A failure to successfully address the potential difficulties associated with international business could reduce our growth, increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business. We conduct a significant amount of our business with companies that operate primarily outside of the United States, and intend to increase sales to companies operating outside of the United States. For example, our customers based outside the United States accounted for 82%, 75% and 67% of our total revenue during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Not only are many of our customers located abroad, but our wafer foundries are predominantly located in Taiwan, and we outsource the assembly and testing of our products to companies based principally in Taiwan. We face a variety of challenges in doing business internationally, including: • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • compliance with local laws and regulations that we not be familiar with; • unanticipated changes in local regulations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, such as withholding taxes; • timing and availability of export and import licenses; • political and economic instability; • reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property; • additional resources and management time required to manage relationships with international distributors and other international sales channels that may be unfamiliar with our operating and disclosure practices and procedures and the requirements of our system of internal control; • pro tectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; and • additional financial risks, such as potentially longer and more difficult collec tion periods. Because we anticipate that we will continue to rely heavily on foreign based customers for our future growth, the occurrence of any of the circumstances identified above could significantly increase our operating costs, delay the timing of our revenue and harm our business and financial condition. We must design our products to meet the needs of our OEM customers and convince them to use our products, or our revenue will be adversely affected. In general, our OEM customers design our products into their equipment during the early stages of their development after an in-depth technical evaluation of both our and our competitors' products. These design wins are critical to the success of our business. In competing for design wins, if a competitor's product is already designed into the product offering of a potential customer, it becomes very difficult for us to sell our products to that customer. Changing suppliers involves additional cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. In addition, our products must comply with the continually evolving specifications of our OEMs. Our ability to compete in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to comply with these specifications. As a result, we expect to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant exp ense to design our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. Even if an OEM designs our products into its systems, we cannot assure you that its systems will be commercially successful or that we will receive significant revenue from sales of our products for those systems. Factors that negatively affect the businesses of our targeted OEMs that use or could use our products could negatively impact our total revenue. The timing and amount of our revenue depend on the ability of our targeted OEMs who use our products to market, produce and ship systems incorporating our technology. Factors that negatively affect a significant customer or group of customers could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Many issues beyond our control influence the success of our targeted OEMs that use our products, including, for example, the highly competitive environment in which they operate, the strength of the markets for their products, their engineering capabilities, their ability or inability to obtain other components from other suppliers, the compatibility of any of their other components with our products, the impact of a worldwide recession on their capital spending and sales of their equipment, and their financial and other re sources. Likewise, we have no control over their product development or pricing strategies, which directly affect sales of their products and, in turn, our revenue. A decline in sales of our OEM customers' systems that use our products would reduce our revenue. In addition, seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for their products could cause our operating results to fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to fall. We have a lengthy sales cycle, which may result in significant expenses that do not generate significant revenue or delayed revenue generation from our selling efforts and limits our ability to forecast our revenue. We expect that our product sales cycle, which results in our products being designed into our customers' products, could take over 24 months. It can take an additional nine months to reach volume production of these products. A number of factors can contribute to the length of the sales cycle, including technical evaluations of our products by our OEMs, the design process required to integrate our products into our OEM customers' products and the timing of our OEMs' new product announcements. In anticipation of product orders, we may incur substantial costs before the sales cycle is complete and before we receive any customer payments. As a result, in the event that a sale is not completed or is cancelled or delayed, we may have incurred substantial expenses, making it more difficult for us to become profitable or otherwise negatively impacting our financial results. Furthermore, because of our lengthy sales cycle, our receipt of revenue from our selling efforts may be substantially delayed, our ability to forecast our future revenue may be more limited and our revenue may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. 14 Table of Contents Our operating results could be adversely affected if we have to satisfy product warranty or liability claims. If our products are defective or malfunction, we could be subject to product warranty or product liability claims that could have significant related warranty charges or warranty reserves in our financial statements. Further, we may spend significant resources investigating potential product design, quality and reliability claims, which could result in additional charges in our financial statements until such claims are resolved. We cannot guarantee that warranty reserves will either increase or decrease in future periods. Further, in connection with master purchase agreements that we entered into with certain large OEM customers, we agreed to provide varying product warranty periods and to indemnify customers for costs incurred in rectifying epidemic failures. If we are required to make payments under this indemnity, our operating res ults may be adversely affected. Moreover, these claims in the future, regardless of their outcome, could adversely affect our business. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, on a quarterly or annual basis, causing volatility in our stock price. Our total revenue and operating results have fluctuated from quarter-to-quarter in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. As a result, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our total revenue and operating results could negatively affect the trading price of our stock. In addition, our total revenue and results of operations may, in the future, be below the expectations set by us or of analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Factors that are likely to cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate include, for example, the periodic costs associated with the generation of mask sets for new products and product improvements and the risk factors discussed throughout this section. Ad ditional factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate from period to period include: • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • the timing and volume of orders received from our customers; • market demand for, and changes in the average selling prices of, our products; font> • the rate of qualification and adoption of our products by networking OEMs; • fluctuating demand for, and lengthy life cycles of, the products and systems tha t incorporate our products; • the market success of the OEM systems that incorporate our products; • the ability of our wafer foundries to supply us with production capacity and fin ished products to sell to our customers; • changes in the level of our costs and operating expenses; font> • our ability to receive our manufactured products from our wafer foundries and sh ip them within a particular reporting period; • deferrals or cancellations of customer orders in anticipation of the development and commercialization of new technologies or for other reasons; • changes in our product lines and revenue mix; • the timing of the introduction by others of competing, replacement or substitute products technologies; • our ability or the ability of our customers that use our products to procure required components or fluctuations in the cost of such components; • cyc lical fluctuations in semiconductor or networking markets; and • general economic conditions that may affect end-user demand for products that use our products. 15 Table of Contents The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the networking markets could adversely affect our operating results and our business. We expect our business to be subject to the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry, especially the market for communications integrated circuits. Historically, there have been significant downturns in this industry segment, characterized by reduced demand for integrated circuits and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. At times, these downturns have lasted for prolonged periods of time. Furthermore, from time to time, the semiconductor industry also has experienced periods of increased demand and production constraints, in which event we may not be able to have our products produced in sufficient quantities, if at all, to satisfy our customers' needs. It is likely that the communications integrated circuit business will experience similar downturns in the future and that, during such times, our business could be affected a dversely. It is also likely that the semiconductor industry will experience periods of strong demand. We may have difficulty in obtaining enough products to sell to our customers or may face substantial increases in the wafer prices charged by our foundries. In addition, the networking industry from time to time has experienced and may experience a pronounced downturn. To respond to a downturn, many networking service providers may be required to slow their research and development activities, cancel or delay new product developments, reduce their workforces and inventories and take a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies from networking OEMs, which would have a significant negative impact on our business. In the future, a downturn in the networking industry may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from year to year, which also may tend to increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. We may not be able to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, which could impair our ability to compete and reduce the value of our technology. Our success and future revenue growth depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. However, these measures may not provide meaningful protection for our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from any of our pending applications. Any rights granted under any of our existing or future patents may not provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. For example, such patents could be challenged or circumvented by our competitors or declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. The failure of any patents to adequately protect our technology would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products. We do not have foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to many of our U.S. patents and patent applications, including in some foreign countries where our products are sold or may be sold in the future. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. div> With respect to our other proprietary rights, it may be possible for third parties to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology or marks without authorization or to develop similar technology independently. Monitoring unauthorized use of our proprietary technology or marks is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technology or marks. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available or may be limited in certain foreign countries. Many companies based in the U.S. have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries, including countries in which we sell products. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could reduce the value of our techn ology and could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, we have in the past and may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may in the future initiate litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers or to protect our trade secrets. Litigation by us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and could materially and adversely affect our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. Any claim that our products or our proprietary technology infringe third party intellectual property rights could increase our costs of operation, and distract management, and could result in expensive settlement costs. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to intellectual property rights. In addition, we have received notices from time to time that claim we have infringed upon or misappropriated intellectual property rights owned by others. We typically respond when appropriate and as advised by legal counsel. We cannot assure you that parties will not pursue litigation with respect to those allegations. We may, in the future, receive similar notices, any of which could lead to litigation against us. For example, parties may initiate litigation based on allegations that we have infringed their intellectual property rights or misappropriat ed or misused their trade secrets, or may seek to invalidate or otherwise render unenforceable one or more of our patents. Litigation against us can result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our management, technical, marketing and other personnel, whether or not the litigation results in a determination adverse to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to prevail or settle any such claims or that we will be able to do so at a reasonable cost. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages for past infringement and royalties for any future use of the technology. In addition, we may be required to cease the sale of certain products, recall certain products from the market, redesign certain products offered for sale or under development or cease the use of certain marks or names. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully redesign our products or do so at a reasonable cost. Additionally, we have in the past sought an d may in the future seek to obtain a license to a third party's intellectual rights and have granted and may in the future grant a license to certain of our intellectual property rights to a third party in connection with a cross-license agreement or a settlement of claims or actions asserted against us. However, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our customers could also become the target of litigation relating to the patent and other intellectual property rights of others. This could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our license or customer agreements. These obligations could result in substantial expenses, including the payment by us of costs and damages related to claims of patent infringement. In addition to the time and expense required for us to provide support or indemnification to our customers, any such litigation could disrupt the businesses of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause the sale of our products to decrease. We cannot assure you that claims for indemnification will not be made or that if made, such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating result s or financial condition. We do not have any insurance coverage for intellectual property infringement claims for which we may be obligated to provide indemnification. If we are obligated to pay damages in excess of, or otherwise outside of, our insurance coverage, or if we have to settle these claims, our operating results could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenue and market share may be reduced. Our business is extremely competitive, especially during the design-in phase of our customers' design cycles. We compete with large semiconductor manufacturers, many of which have more established reputations, more diverse customer bases and greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, our OEM customers may design their own integrated circuits to address their system needs. As we develop new applications for our products and expand into new markets, we expect to face even greater competition. Our present and future competitors may be able to better anticipate customer and industry demands and to respond more quickly and efficiently to those demands, such as with product offerings, financial discounts or other incentives. Furthermore, our OEM customers may be able develop or acquire integrated circuits that s atisfy their needs faster or most cost effectively than we can. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively against these and our other competitors. If we do not compete effectively, our revenue and market share may decline. Our success may depend on our ability to comply with new or evolving industry standards applicable to our products or our business. Our ability to compete in the future may depend on our ability to ensure that our products comply with evolving industry standards affecting our customers' equipment and other markets in which we compete. In addition, from time to time, new industry standards may emerge which could render our products incompatible with the products of our customers or suppliers. In order to ensure compliance with the relevant standards, we may be required to devote significant time, capital and other resources to modify or redesign our existing products or to develop new products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop products which comply with prevailing standards. If we are unable to develop these products in a timely manner, we may miss significant business opportunities, and our revenue and operating results could suffer. If an earthquake or other natural disaster disrupts the operations of our third party wafer foundries or other vendors located in high risk regions, we could experience significant delays in the production or shipment of our products. TSMC and UMC, which manufacture our products, along with most of our vendors who handle the assembly and testing of our products, are located in Asia. The risk of an earthquake in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines. In September 1999, a major earthquake in Taiwan affected the facilities of several of these third party vendors, as well as other providers of these services. As a result of this earthquake, these vendors suffered power outages and disruptions that impaired their production capacity. In March 2002 and September 2003, additional earthquakes occurred in Taiwan. The occurrence of additional earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in the disruption of the wafer foundry or assembly and test capacity of the third parties that supply these services to us. We may n ot be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms, if at all. Any future acquisitions we make could disrupt our business, and harm our financial condition and dilute our stockholders. In the future, we may consider additional opportunities to acquire other businesses or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. Acquisitions present a significant number of potential challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs, reduce the value to us of the acquired company or business, including: • integration of the acquired employees, operations, technologies and products wit h our existing business and products; • focusing management's time and attention on our existing core business; font> • retention of business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; • entering markets in which we may lack prior experience; • ret ention of key employees of the acquired company or business; • amortization of intangible assets, write-offs, fair market value adjustments for acquired inventory, changes in contingent earn-out liability, stock-based compensation and other charges relating to the acquired business and our acquisition costs; and • dil ution to our existing stockholders from the issuance of additional shares of common stock or reduction of earnings per outstanding share in connection with an acquisition that fails to increase the value of our company. We cannot provide assurances, however, that this acquisition or future acquisitions that we might make will achieve our business objectives or increase our value or the price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents We expect to rely on third-party technologies for the development of our products, and our inability to use these technologies in the future could harm our ability to compete in the markets for these products. We rely on third parties for technologies that are integrated into a number of our products, such as wafer fabrication and assembly and test technologies used by its contract manufacturers, as well as licensed MIPS architecture technologies. If we are unable to continue to use or license these technologies on reasonable terms, or if these technologies fail to operate properly following the acquisition, we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner, and our ability to remain competitive in the markets served by these products would be harmed. In addition, the MIPS license requires that certain improvements be made available to the community of all of MIPS' licensees, which could conceivably reduce the proprietary advantage that we will have with this architecture. If we are unable to license technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms in order to continue to develop current products or to develop future products for the markets served by the RMI products, we may not be able to develop these products in a timely manner or at all. We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets. Over the past several years, we have made several acquisitions. As a result of these acquisitions, we had approximately $112.7 million of goodwill, $180.8 million of intangible assets and other long-lived assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2010. Under GAAP, we are required to review our intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We perform an assessment of long-lived assets annually and on an interim basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. If the businesses acquired fail to meet the expectations we established at the time of the acquisition, or if our market capitalization adjusted for control premiums and other factors declines to b elow our carrying value, we could incur significant goodwill or intangible impairment charges, which could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, from time to time, we have made investments in other companies which are privately held. If such companies are unable to execute their business plans and succeed in their respective markets, we may not benefit from the investments, and may incur a loss on them. We evaluate our investment portfolio on a regular basis to determine if impairments have occurred. Impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations in any period. We may be required to record additional income tax provision which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. Our income tax provision reflects judgment and estimation regarding the allocation of profits between taxing jurisdictions and the application of complex tax laws throughout the jurisdictions where we operate. These calculations of income taxes are based on our legal and factual interpretations of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file returns and involve judgment and taking positions in matters of uncertainty. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome which may arise from an examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Services in the U.S. or other tax authorities, may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may cause a higher effective tax rate that could materially affect our income tax provision, results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination is made. We believe that we have provided sufficient tax provisions for all open tax years and the ultimate outcome from any tax audits will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations in future periods. Potential changes to tax laws include, but are not limited to changes in corporate tax rates, curbing the deferral of U.S. taxation of certain foreign earnings, and limiting the ability to use research and development and foreign tax credits. However, we cannot predict with certainty how these matters which could change as a result of new legislature, evolution of regulation and court rulings, or an unexpected audit or litigation outcome will ultimately be resolved and whether we will be required to make additional tax payments. Furthermore, our provision for income tax could increase as we expand our international operations, adopt new products, implement changes to our operating structure or undertake intercompany transactions in light of acquisitions, changing tax laws, expiring rulings, and our current and anticipated business and operational requirements. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in foreign markets. Because we incorporate encryption technology into our communication processors, some of these products are subject to United States export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to introduce products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or an inability to export or sell our products to, existing or prospective customers with international operations and harm our business. 18 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price could drop, and there could be significantly less trading activity in our stock, if securities or industry analysts downgrade our stock or do not publish research or reports about our business. Our stock price and the trading market for our stock are likely to be affected significantly by the research and reports concerning our company and our business which are published by industry and securities analysts. We do not have any influence or control over these analysts, their reports or their recommendations. Our stock price and the trading market for our stock could be negatively affected if any analyst downgrades our stock, publishes a report which is critical of our business, or discontinues coverage of us. Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. Such volatility may occur in the future, particularly because of quarter-to-quarter variations in our actual or anticipated financial results, or the reported financial results of other semiconductor companies or our customers. Stock price volatility may also result from product announcements by us or our competitors, or from changes in perceptions about the various types of products we manufacture and sell. In addition, our stock price may fluctuate due to price and volume fluctuations in the stock market, especially in the technology sector. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and customer agreements might delay or prevent a change of control transaction and depress the market price of our stock. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors, limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings and establish specific procedures for director nominations by stockholders and the submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law which could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. In particular, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless specific conditions are met. Any of these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including, without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. Our board of directors might issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval on such terms as the board might determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and might be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that might be issued in the future. Under our master purchase agreements with large OEMs, certain customers may exercise rights to purchase our products directly from our manufacturers under certain circumstances. This provision may discourage or complicate attempts by some third parties to acquire us. Our stockholder rights plan could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price for their shares from a potential acquirer. We adopted a stockholder rights plan that generally entitles our stockholders to rights to acquire additional shares of our common stock when a third party acquires 15.0% of our common stock or commences or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for at least 15.0% of our common stock, other than for certain stockholders that were stockholders prior to our initial public offering as to whom this threshold is 20.0%. This plan could delay, deter or prevent an investor from acquiring us in a transaction that could otherwise result in stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. We may need to obtain financing in order to fund our growth strategy. We believe that we have or will have access to capital sufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, it may become necessary for us to raise additional funds to support our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing when needed or that, if available to us, the terms will be acceptable to us. If we issue equity securities in any financing, the new securities may have rights and preferences senior to our shares of common stock, and the ownership interest in us of our current stockholders will be proportionately reduced. If we issued debt securities, they will rank senior to all equity securities. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy, and our business could be harmed significantly. Our future capital r equirements will depend on many factors, including the amount of revenue we generate, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of introductions of new products, the costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity, and the continuing market acceptance of our products, and any future business acquisitions that we might undertake. However, if we do not meet our plan, we could be required, or might elect, to seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing and additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also might decide to raise additional capital at such times and upon such terms as management considers favorable and in the interests of the Company. We may sell up to approximately an additional $120 million of our debt and/or equity securities (before reductions for expenses, underwriting discounts and commissions) under our existing shelf regis tration statement on Form S-3 which may result in an increase in the number of shares and decline in earnings per share. We may also sell securities pursuant to one ore more automatic shelf registration statements that become effective automatically upon filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided we continue to meet the eligibility requirements for this form. We may sell these securities under these registration statements from time-to-time without prior announcement. 19 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table provides the names, ages and offices of each of our current executive officers: Title Age Position Ronald Jankov 52 Director, Chief Executive Officer and President Behrooz Abdi 49 Executive Vice President and General Manager Michael Tate 44 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Marcia Zander 48 Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales Varadarajan Srinivasan 60 Vice President of Product Development and Chief Technical Officer Dimitrios Dimitrelis 53 Vice President of Engineering Mozafar Maghsoudnia 45 Vice President of Worldwide Manufacturing Ibrahim Korgav 62 Senior Vice President of Worldwide Business Operations Chris O'Reilly 38 Vice President of Marketing Roland Cortes 45 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Ronald Jankov has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our board of directors since April 2000. Prior to joining us, Mr. Jankov served as Senior Vice President at NeoMagic Corp. through its IPO in 1997, and Vice President of Cyrix Corporation through its IPO in 1993. Mr. Jankov began his career with various engineering and management positions at Texas Instruments and LSI Logic Corp. Behrooz Abdi has served as our Executive Vice President and General Manager since he joined us in November 2009 as part of our acquisition of RMI Corporation. From November 2007 to October 2009, Mr. Abdi was President and Chief Executive Officer of RMI. From March 2004 to November 2007, Mr. Abdi was Senior Vice President and General Manager of Qualcomm CDMA Technologies at Qualcomm, Inc., a provider of integrated circuit products. Prior to Qualcomm, Mr. Abdi held leadership and engineering positions at Motorola in its Semiconductor Products Sector, now Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. His last role at Motorola was Vice President and General Manager for the Radio Products Division from July 1985 to December 2003. Michael Tate has served as our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer since July 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Tate was interim chief financial officer, vice president, corporate controller, and treasurer at Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a semiconductor integrated circuit company. He joined Marvell in January 2001 as part of Marvell's acquisition of Galileo Technology Ltd. Prior to joining Marvell, from 1997 to 2001, he served in various senior financial management roles at Galileo Technology Ltd., including vice president of finance and chief financial officer. From 1994 to 1997, Mr. Tate held various senior financial management positions at S3 Incorporated. In addition, he served for more than five years at Deloitte & Touche LLP. Marcia Zander has served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales since January 2006 and Vice President of Sales since July 1999. Prior to joining us, Ms. Zander was a top performer in semiconductor sales and sales management for QuadRep, Inc., a leading manufacturers representative firm. Before joining QuadRep, Ms. Zander held sales and sales management positions at AVX Corporation and Corning Electronics. Varadarajan Srinivasan has served as our Vice President of Product Development since March 1996, as our Chief Technical Officer since August 2000. Dr. Varad Srinivasan co-founded us and is the principal designer of a number of our product architectures. Prior to co-founding us, Dr. Srinivasan was director of design at Quality Semiconductor. Before joining Quality in 1989, he designed the world's fastest bipolar PLD at Aspen Semiconductor. Before Aspen, Dr. Srinivasan was a design engineer at IDT, where he was a principal designer of the company's SRAMs, specialty and multi-port memories. He also designed DRAM and SRAM products at Fairchild Semiconductor. Dimitrios Dimitrelis has served as our Vice President of Engineering since July 2002. From July 1999 to March 2002, Mr. Dimitrelis was Director of Engineering for Vitesse Semiconductor Corp., a communications integrated circuit company, where he was primarily responsible for the development of a 10G network processor. Before joining Vitesse, Dr. Dimitrelis spent 11 years at VLSI Technology where his last assignment was the management of the ARM peripherals development group. In this role, he managed teams responsible for development of ARM peripheral IP components and for the integration of ARM processors into VLSI's product portfolio. Mozafar Maghsoudnia has served as our Vice President of Worldwide Manufacturing since January 2007, as Vice President of Manufacturing since August 2006, and Director of Technology since June 2003. From June 1988 to June 2003, Mr. Maghsoudnia was employed by Analog Devices, Inc., where he was responsible for wafer fabrication and technology in his last assignment. Ibrahim Korgav has served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Business Operations since January 2007 and as our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing and Business Operations from March 2002 to January 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Korgav was a member of venture capital firm Global Catalyst Partners as an entrepreneur-in-residence. Prior to joining Global Catalyst Partners, he was at Zaffire, an optical transport systems company, as senior vice president of operations. Previously, Mr. Korgav was with NeoMagic as vice president of manufacturing operations from its early start-up stage and helped build it into a successful public company with more than $250 million in sales. Before NeoMagic, he co-founded Micro Linear and also worked at Seeq, Synertek, AMD and Sil iconix in various manufacturing engineering and operations positions. Chris O'Reilly has served as our Vice President of Marketing since August 2007. Prior to August 2007, Mr. O'Reilly served as our senior director of marketing, director of sales for the Asia Pacific region and senior marketing manager since 1999. Prior to joining us, Mr. O’Reilly was product marketing manager at Hitachi where he was responsible for the ASIC, microprocessors and microcontrollers product lines. Roland Cortes has served as our Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since April 2007. Prior to April 2007, Mr. Cortes served as our Secretary since May 2004, as our Senior Director of Legal Affairs and IP Management since July 2002, and as our Director of Legal Affairs and IP Management since April 1999. From December 1995 to April 1999, Mr. Cortes was an intellectual property attorney with Blakely, Sokoloff, Taylor & Zafman LLP, and from 1989 to 1995 held various engineering positions at semiconductor technology companies in San Jose, California. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 