ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Important risk factors that could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated operating results and growth plan goals are presented below. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of our business and the factors affecting our business located elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. INDUSTRY-RELATED RISKS • Demand for the systems and services provided by our businesses depends on oil and gas industry activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in the demand for and price of crude oil and natural gas. We are substantially dependent on conditions in the oil and gas industry and that industry’s willingness and ability to spend capital on the exploration for and development of crude oil and natural gas. Any substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the reduced discovery and development of new reserves of oil and gas and the reduced exploitation of existing wells, which could adversely affect demand for our systems and services. The level of spending is generally dependent on current and anticipated crude oil and natural gas prices, which have been volatile in the past. • The industries in which we operate or have operated expose us to potential liabilities arising out of the installation or use of our systems that could adversely affect our financial condition. We operate in an industry that is subject to equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, equipment misuse and natural disasters, the occurrence of which may result in uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. Although we have obtained insurance against many of these risks, we cannot assure that our insurance will be adequate to cover our liabilities. Further, we cannot assure that insurance will generally be available in the future or, if available, that premiums will be commercially justifiable. If we incur substantial 8 Table of Contents liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. • Our customers’ industries are undergoing continuing consolidation that may impact our results of operations. Some of our largest customers have consolidated and are using their size and purchasing power to achieve economies of scale and pricing concessions. This consolidation may result in reduced capital spending by such customers or the acquisition of one or more of our other primary customers, which may lead to decreased demand for our products and services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our level of sales to any customer that has consolidated or replace that revenue with increased business activities with other customers. As a result, this consolidation activity could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We are unable to predict what effect consolidations in the industries may have on prices, capital spending by our customers, our selling strategies, our competitive position, our ability to retain customers or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with our customers. • Our operations and the industries in which we operate are subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations that may increase our costs, limit the demand for our products and services or restrict our operations. We depend on the demand for our systems and services from oil and gas companies. This demand is affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry. For example, the adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development of drilling for crude oil and natural gas in our areas of operation for economic, environmental or other reasons could adversely affect our operations by limiting demand for our systems and services. In light of our foreign operations and sales, we are also subject to changes in foreign laws and regulations that may encourage or require hiring of local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular non-U.S. jurisdiction. In addition, environmental laws and regulations affect the systems and services we design, market and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our systems. We are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations and anticipate that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. Because these laws and regulations change frequently, we are unable to predict the cost or impact that they may have on our businesses. The modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations imposing more stringent environmental restrictions could adversely affect our operations. COMPANY-RELATED RISKS • Disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic and social conditions of the foreign countries in which we conduct business could adversely affect our business or results of operations. We operate manufacturing facilities in 13 countries outside of the United States, and approximately 76% of our 2008 revenue was generated internationally. Instability and unforeseen changes in the international markets in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas such as North Africa, West Africa, the Middle East, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region, could cause or contribute to factors that could have an adverse effect on the demand for our systems and services, our financial condition or our results of operations. These factors include: • foreign currency fluctuations or currency restrictions; • fluctuations in the interest rate component of forward foreign currency rates; 9 Table of Contents • nationalization and expropriation; • potentially burdensome taxation; • inflationary and recessionary markets, including capital and equity markets; • civil unrest, labor issues, political instability, terrorist attacks, military activity and wars; • supply disruptions in key oil producing countries; • ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • seizure of assets; • trade restrictions, trade protection measures or price controls; • foreign ownership restrictions; • import or export licensing requirements; • restrictions on operations, trade practices, trade partners and investment decisions resulting from domestic and foreign laws and regulations; • changes in governmental laws and regulations and the level of enforcement of laws and regulations; • inability to repatriate income or capital; and • reductions in the availability of qualified personnel. Because a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in foreign currencies, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in our costs and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside of the U.S. and the amount of our stockholders’ equity. Although it is our policy to seek to minimize our currency exposure by engaging in hedging transactions where appropriate, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful. To the extent we sell our products and services in foreign markets, currency fluctuations may result in our products and services becoming too expensive for foreign customers. • We may lose money on fixed-price contracts. As is customary for the business areas in which we operate, we agree to provide products and services under fixed-price contracts. Under these contracts, we are typically responsible for cost overruns. Our actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts may vary from the estimated amounts on which these contracts were originally based. There is inherent risk in the estimation process, including significant unforeseen technical and logistical challenges or longer than expected lead times. A fixed-price contract may prohibit our ability to mitigate the impact of unanticipated increases in raw material prices (including the price of steel) through increased pricing. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a significant impact on our operating results. • Due to the types of contracts we enter into, the cumulative loss of several major contracts or alliances may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We often enter into large, long-term contracts and leases that, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue. These agreements, if terminated or breached, may have a larger impact on our operating results or our financial condition than shorter-term contracts due to the value at risk. If we were to lose several key alliances or agreements over a relatively short period of time we could experience a significant adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 10 Table of Contents • Our businesses are dependent on the continuing services of certain of our key managers and employees. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of any of these officers or key management could adversely impact our business if we are unable to implement key strategies or transactions in their absence. In addition, competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology (as we do) is intense. The loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products and services. • Increased costs of raw materials and other components may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by our inability to manage the rising costs and availability of raw materials and components used in our wide variety of products and systems. Unexpected changes in the size and timing of regional and/or product markets, particularly for short lead-time products, could affect our results of operations and our cash flows. • Our success depends on our ability to implement new technologies and services. Our success depends on the ongoing development and implementation of new product designs and improvements, and on our ability to protect and maintain critical intellectual property assets related to these developments. If we are not able to obtain patent or other protection of our technology, we may not be able to continue to develop systems, services and technologies to meet evolving industry requirements, and if so, at prices acceptable to our customers. Some of our competitors are large national and multinational companies that may be able to devote greater resources to research and development of new systems, services and technologies than we are able to do. Moreover, some of our competitors operate in narrow business areas, allowing them to concentrate their research and development efforts directly on products and services for those areas. If we are unable to compete effectively given these risks, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. • Our inability to deliver our backlog on time could affect our future sales and profitability and our relationships with our customers. Many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and may contain penalty clauses relating to on-time delivery. A failure by us to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties and may result in damage to existing customer relationships. Additionally, we include within our earnings guidance to the financial markets our expectations regarding the timing of delivery of product currently in backlog. Failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance and thus cause adverse changes in the market price of our outstanding common stock. • Our businesses are subject to a variety of governmental regulation. We are exposed to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to matters such as environmental, health and safety, labor and employment, import/export control, currency exchange, bribery and corruption and taxation. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. In the event the scope of these laws and regulations expand in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 11 Table of Contents • Many of our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services may be affected by the current deterioration in the credit markets and significant reductions in commodity prices. The recent worldwide shortage of liquidity and credit to fund industrial business operations, combined with substantial losses in worldwide equity markets, could lead to an extended global economic recession. Many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit. Additionally, many of our customers’ equity values have substantially declined. The combination of a reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our customers’ spending for our products and services. During the second half of 2008, and now continuing into 2009, crude oil prices have dropped substantially. An extended worldwide economic recession could lead to further reductions in worldwide demand for energy and thus lower oil and natural gas prices. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices is likely to depress short-term exploration, development and production and expenditure levels. Oil and gas company perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices may reduce or defer major expenditures on long-term, large scale development projects. Lower levels of oil and gas industry activity and expenditure levels could result in a decline in demand for our systems and services and could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. These same factors may result in our customers’ inability to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 