ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. We expect to derive most of our revenue from sales of our knowledge-based processors, and, if the demand for these products does not grow, we may not achieve our growth and strategic objectives. Our knowledge-based processors are used primarily in networking systems, including routers, switches, network access equipment and networked storage devices. We derive a substantial portion of our total revenue from sales of our knowledge-based processors in the networking market and expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our total revenue from this market for the foreseeable future. Sales of our knowledge-based processors accounted for 85%, 93% and 86% of our total revenue during the year ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We believe our future business and financial success depends on continued market acceptance and increasing sales of our knowledge-based processors. Year-over-year sales of our knowledge-based processors increased 8% from 2005 to 2006. In order to meet our growth and strategic objectives, networking original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, must continue to incorporate, and increase the incorporation of, our products into their systems as their preferred means of enabling network-aware processing of IP packets, and the demand for their systems must grow as well. We cannot provide assurance that sales of our knowledge-based processors will increase substantially in the future or that the demand for our customers’ systems will increase as well. Thus, our future success depends in large part on factors outside our control, and sales of our knowledge-based processors may not meet our revenue growth and strategic objectives. Additionally, due to the high concentration of our sales with a small number of networking OEMs, we cannot guarantee that the demand for the systems offered by these customers will increase or that our sales will increase outside this core customer base, and, accordingly, prior quarterly or annual results may not be an indication of our future revenue growth or financial results 20 Table of Contents Because we rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our total revenue, the loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders for our products from these customers would negatively affect our total revenue and business. To date, we have been dependent upon orders for sales of knowledge-based processors to a limited number of customers, and, in particular, Cisco, for most of our total revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, Cisco and its contract manufacturers accounted for 61%, 74% and 73% of our total revenue, respectively. We expect that our future financial performance will continue to depend in large part upon our relationship with Cisco and several other networking OEMs. We cannot assure you that existing or potential customers will not develop their own solutions, purchase competitive products or acquire companies that use alternative methods to enable network-aware processing in their systems. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from any of our OEM customers or their contract manufacturers. Although we recently entered into master purchase agreements with Cisco and one of its foreign affiliates, these agreements do not include any long-term purchase commitments. Cisco and our other customers do business with us currently only on the basis of short-term purchase orders (subject, in the case of Cisco, to the terms of the master purchase agreements), which often are cancelable prior to shipment. The loss of orders for our knowledge-based processors for Cisco products or products of other major users of our knowledge-based processors would have a significant negative impact on our business. We face additional risks to our business success and financial condition because of our dependence on a small number of customers for sales of our products. Our dependence on a small number of customers, especially Cisco and its contract manufacturers, for most of our revenue in the foreseeable future creates additional risks for our business, including the following: • we may face increased pressure to reduce the average selling prices of our knowledge-based processors; • we may find it difficult to pass through increases in our manufacturing and other direct costs; • the reputation of our knowledge-based processors in the marketplace may be affected adversely if Cisco or other networking OEMs that represent a significant percentage of our sales of knowledge-based processors reduce or cease their use of our products; and • we may face problems in collecting a substantial portion of our accounts receivable if any of these companies faces financial difficulties or dispute payments. We have a history of net losses, may incur significant net losses in the future and may not be able to sustain profitability. Although we reported net income of $0.6 million and $16.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we reported net losses in years prior to fiscal 2005. At December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $82.2 million. To sustain profitability, we will have to continue to generate greater total revenue and control costs and expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate greater total revenue, or limit our costs and expenses, sufficiently to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Because we sell our products on a purchase order basis and rely on estimated forecasts of our customers’ needs, inaccurate forecasts could adversely affect our business. We sell our products pursuant to individual purchase orders (subject, in the case of Cisco, to the terms of a master purchase agreement), and not pursuant to long-term purchase commitments. Therefore, we rely on estimated demand forecasts, based upon input from our customers, to determine how much product to manufacture. Because our sales are based on purchase orders, our customers may cancel, delay or otherwise modify their purchase commitments with little or no consequence to them and with little or no notice to us. For 21 Table of Contents these reasons, we generally have limited visibility regarding our customers’ product needs. We cannot provide assurance as to the quantities or timing required by our customers for our products. We cannot assure you that we will not experience subsequent substantial warranty claims or that warranty claims will not result in cancellation of existing orders or reluctance of customers to place future orders. In addition, the product design cycle for networking OEMs is lengthy, and it may be difficult for us to accurately anticipate when they will commence commercial shipments of products that include our knowledge-based processors. Whether in response to changes affecting the industry or a customer’s specific business pressures, any cancellation, delay or other modification in our customers’ orders could significantly reduce our revenue, cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult for us to predict our revenue. In the event of a cancellation or reduction of an order, we may not have enough time to reduce operating expenses to minimize the effect of the lost revenue on our business, and we may purchase too much inventory and spend more capital than expected. As a result of acquiring Cypress Semiconductor’s Network Search Engine Products on February 15, 2006, we began selling some of the acquired products through a distributor previously used by Cypress. The distributor has sole authority to accept returns from end customers in the ordinary course of business. Because we recognize revenue when the distributor sells product to end customers, returns from end customers to our distributor reduce our reported sales. We have no direct control over our distributor’s policies or practices on accepting customer returns and may have no forewarning of significant customer returns. Consequently, large returns could have an unexpected material adverse impact on our sales. We may not significantly increase our revenue growth rate. We have recently experienced decreasing revenue growth. Specifically, our total revenue increased 253% from $13.5 million in 2003 to $47.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, 71% from 2004 to $81.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and 18% from 2005 to $96.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. While our revenue has grown each year, we did experience a drop in revenue of 21% from our third fiscal quarter 2006 to our fourth fiscal quarter 2006. This was primarily due to inventory level adjustments by some of our larger customers who, it appears, had placed excess orders in prior quarters out of concern for a component shortage that did not occur. While we believe that this inventory correction is largely behind us, we can not guarantee that our customers have completed their inventory corrections, or that they will not place excess orders in anticipation of component shortages that in fact may not occur, or that they will increase their purchases of our products in any event. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of the future rate of our revenue growth or our future financial results. We are dependent on contract manufacturers for a significant portion of our revenue. Many of our OEM customers, including Cisco, use third party contract manufacturers to manufacture their networking systems. These contract manufacturers represented 78%, 79% and 78% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Contract manufacturers purchase our products directly from us on behalf of networking OEMs. Although we work with our OEM customers in the design and development phases of their systems, these OEM customers are gradually giving contract manufacturers more authority in product purchasing decisions. As a result, we depend on a concentrated group of contract manufacturers for a substantial portion of our revenue. If we cannot compete effectively for the business of these contract manufacturers or if any of the contract manufacturers, which work with our OEM customers, experience financial or other difficulties in their businesses, our revenue and our business could be adversely affected. In particular, if one of our OEM customer’s contract manufacturers becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings, neither we nor our OEM customer may be able to obtain any of our products held by the contract manufacturer. In addition, we may not be able to recover any payments owed to us by the contract manufacturer for products already delivered or recover the products held in the contract manufacturer’s inventory when the bankruptcy proceeding is initiated. If we are unable to deliver our products to our OEM customers in a timely manner, our business would be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents The average selling prices of our products may decline, which could reduce our revenue and gross margin. The average selling prices of our products are expected to decline over the course of their commercial lives, principally due to the supply of competing products, reduction in demand from customers, pressure from customers to reduce prices and product cycle changes. In addition, under our master purchase agreements with Cisco, we agreed to provide to Cisco all price decreases that we achieve, and granted to Cisco the right (under limited circumstances) to purchase our knowledge-based processors directly from our manufacturers (subject to payments to us, net of specified costs). The average selling prices of our knowledge-based processors have declined by 19% from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006, and we expect average selling prices for each knowledge-based process family to decline approximately 10% to 20% each year. Declining average selling prices will adversely affect our future operating results. To maintain acceptable operating results, we will need to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continue to reduce our costs. If we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes and achieving corresponding production cost reductions, or if we fail to develop and introduce new products and enhancements on a timely basis, our revenue and operating results will suffer. We rely on third parties for the manufacture of our products, and a significant increase in wafer pricing or our failure to secure sufficient capacity could limit our growth and adversely affect our operating results. As a fabless semiconductor company, we rely on third-party wafer foundries to manufacture our products. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with either of our wafer foundries, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd., or TSMC, and United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC. Neither TSMC nor UMC is obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. As a result, there are numerous risks associated with our reliance on these wafer foundries, including the possibilities that TSMC or UMC may give higher priority to their other customers or that our relationships with either wafer foundry may deteriorate. We cannot assure you that TSMC and UMC will continue to provide us with our products at acceptable yields or in sufficient quantities, for reasonable costs and on a timely basis to meet our customers’ needs. A failure to ensure the timely fabrication of our products could cause us to lose customers and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If either wafer foundry, and in particular TSMC, ceases to provide us with required production capacity with respect to our products, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain manufacturing capacity from other wafer foundries on commercially reasonable terms or that these arrangements, if established, will result in the successful manufacturing of our products. These arrangements might require us to share our technology and might be subject to unilateral termination by the wafer foundries. Even if such capacity is available from another manufacturer, we would need to convert the production of our integrated circuits to a new fabrication process and qualify the other manufacturer, which process could take nine months or longer. Furthermore, we may not be able to identify or qualify manufacturing sources that would be able to produce wafers with acceptable manufacturing yields. We also rely on third parties for other products and services, including the assembly, testing and packing of our products, and engineering services, and any failure by third parties to provide the tools and services we require could limit our growth and adversely affect our future operating results. All of our products are assembled and tested by third-party vendors and require the use of high performance assembly and test equipment. In addition, in connection with the design of our products, we use software tools, which we obtain from third party software vendors, for simulation, layout and other design purposes. Our reliance on independent assembly, testing, software and other vendors involves a number of risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with all of these third party vendors. As a result, most of these third party vendors are not obligated to provide products or perform services to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific 23 Table of Contents price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. The inability of these third party vendors to deliver high performance products or services of acceptable quality and in a timely manner, could lengthen our design cycle, result in the loss of our customers and reduce our revenue. We also rely on third party component suppliers to provide custom designed integrated circuit packages for our products. In some instances, these package designs are provided by a single supplier. Our reliance on these suppliers involves a number of risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with all of these package vendors. As a result, most of these third party vendors are not obligated to provide products or perform services to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. The inability of these third party vendors to deliver packages of acceptable quality and in a timely manner, particularly the sole source vendors, could adversely affect our delivery commitments and adversely affect our operating results or cause them to fluctuate more than anticipated. Additionally, these packages may require specialized or high-performance component parts that may not be available in quantities or in time frames that meet our requirements or the anticipated requirement of our customers. For example, we did experience a drop in revenue of 21% from our third fiscal quarter 2006 to our fourth fiscal quarter 2006 primarily due to inventory level adjustments by some of our larger customers who, it appears, had placed excess orders in prior quarters out of concern of an anticipated component shortage at a package supplier to us. While we believe that this inventory correction is largely behind us, we can not guarantee that our customers have completed their inventory corrections, or that they will not place excess orders in anticipation of component shortages that in fact may not occur. In connection with the design of our products, we have and may license third party intellectual property, and use third party engineering services. Our reliance on these third party intellectual property and engineering services providers involves a number of risks, including reduced control over and quality of the intellectual property and service deliverables, quality and costs. The inability of these third party providers to deliver high performance products or services of acceptable quality and in a timely manner, could lengthen our design cycle, result in the loss of our customers and reduce our revenue. Our costs may increase substantially if the wafer foundries, assembly and test vendors that supply and test our products do not achieve satisfactory product yields, reliability or quality. The wafer fabrication process is an extremely complicated process where the slightest changes in the design, specifications or materials can result in material decreases in manufacturing yields or even the suspension of production. From time to time, we and our wafer foundries have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields related to errors or problems in our wafer foundries’ manufacturing processes or the interrelationship of their processes with our designs. In some cases, our wafer foundries may not be able to detect these defects early in the fabrication process or determine the cause of such defects in a timely manner, which may affect the quality or reliability of our products. We may incur substantial research and development expense for prototype or development stage products as we qualify the products for production. Generally, in pricing our knowledge-based processors, we assume that manufacturing, assembly and test yields will continue to increase, even as the complexity of our products increases. Once our products are initially qualified with our wafer foundries, minimum acceptable yields are established. We are responsible for the costs of the wafers if the actual yield is above the minimum. If actual yields are below the minimum, we are not required to purchase the wafers. The minimum acceptable yields for our new products are generally lower at first and increase as we achieve full production. Whether as a result of a design defect or manufacturing, assembly or test error, unacceptably low product yields or other product manufacturing, assembly or test problems could substantially increase the overall production time and costs and adversely impact our operating results on sales of our products. Product yield losses will increase our costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition to significantly harming our operating results and cash flow, poor yields may delay shipment of our products and harm our relationships with existing and potential customers. 24 Table of Contents To be successful we must continue to develop and have manufactured for us, innovative products to meet the evolving requirements of networking OEMs. To remain competitive, we devote substantial resources to research and development, both to improve our existing knowledge-based processor technology and to develop new technology. We also seek to improve the manufacturing processes for our knowledge-based processors, including the use of smaller process geometries, which we believe is important for our products to serve our OEM customers’ requirements for increased network-aware processing. Our failure to migrate our knowledge-based processors to logic processes at smaller process geometries could substantially reduce the future competitiveness of our products. In addition, from time to time, we may have to redesign some of our knowledge-based processors or modify the manufacturing process for them. We cannot give you any assurance that we will be able to improve our existing knowledge-based processor technology or develop and integrate new technology into our products. Even if we design better knowledge-based processors, we may encounter problems during the manufacturing or assembly process, including reduced manufacturing yields, production delays and increased expenses, all of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, given the highly complex nature of these products, even the slightest change or adjustment to our integrated circuit designs could require substantial resources to implement them. We may not be able to make these changes or adjustments to our knowledge-based processors or correct any errors or defects arising from their implementation. Failure to make these changes or adjustments or correct these errors or defects during the product development stages, or any resulting delays, could severely harm our existing and potential customer relationships and could likely increase our development costs, adversely affecting our operating results. If these changes, adjustments, errors or defects are not identified or requested until after commercial production has begun or after products have been delivered to customers, we may be required to re-test existing inventory, replace products already shipped or re-design the products, all of which would likely result in significant time delays and additional costs and expenses. For example, we accelerated production of our knowledge-based processors to meet the schedule demands of Cisco in the fall of 2003. As a result of certain design issues, these production runs had relatively low production yields, which resulted in related costs and expenses of approximately $11.4 million in 2003 including $9.8 million in adverse purchase commitments, $1.0 million in warranty accruals and a $0.6 million write down of inventory. We have sustained substantial losses from low production yields in the past and may incur such losses in the future. Designing and manufacturing integrated circuits is a difficult, complex and costly process. Once research and development has been completed and the foundry begins to produce commercial volumes of the new integrated circuit, products still may contain errors or defects that could adversely affect product quality and reliability. We have experienced low yields and have incurred substantial research and development expenses in the design and initial production phases of all of our legacy network search engine products and knowledge-based processors. We cannot assure you that we will not experience low yields, substantial research and development expenses, product quality, reliability or design problems, or other material problems with our products that we have shipped or may ship in the future. If we fail to retain key personnel and hire additional personnel, our business and growth could be negatively affected. Our business has been dependent to a significant degree upon the services of a small number of executive officers and technical employees. We generally do not have non-competition agreements or term employment agreements with any of our executive officers, whom we generally employ at will. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on the lives of any of our key personnel. The loss of any of these individuals could negatively impact our technology development efforts and our ability to service our existing customers and obtain new customers. 25 Table of Contents Our future growth will also depend, in part, upon our ability to recruit and retain other qualified managers, engineers and sales and marketing personnel. There is intense competition for these individuals in our industry, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in recruiting and retaining these individuals. If we are unable to recruit and retain these individuals, our technology development and sales and marketing efforts could be negatively impacted. If we fail to maintain competitive stock option packages for our employees, or if our stock price declines materially for a protracted period of time, we might have difficulty retaining our employees and our business may be harmed. In today’s competitive technology industry, employment decisions of highly skilled personnel are influenced by stock option packages, which offer incentives above traditional compensation only where there is a consistent, long-term upward trend over time of a company’s stock price. If our stock price declines due to market conditions, investors’ perceptions of the technology industry or managerial or performance problems we have, our stock option incentives may lose value to key employees, and we may lose these employees or be forced to grant additional options to retain them. This in turn could result in: • immediate and substantial dilution to investors resulting from the grant of additional options necessary to retain employees; and • potential compensation charges against the company, which could negatively impact our operating results. A failure to successfully address the potential difficulties associated with international business could reduce our growth, increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business. We conduct a significant amount of our business with companies that operate primarily outside of the United States, and intend to increase sales to companies operating outside of the United States. For example, our customers based outside the United States accounted for 52%, 33% and 7% of our total revenue during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. The increase is foreign sales is primarily due to the use of off-shore contract manufacturers by our largest customers. Not only are many of our customers located abroad, but our two wafer foundries are based in Taiwan, and we outsource the assembly and some of the testing of our products to companies based in Taiwan and Hong Kong. We face a variety of challenges in doing business internationally, including: • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • unanticipated changes in local regulations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, such as withholding taxes; • timing and availability of export and import licenses; • political and economic instability; • reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; and • additional financial risks, such as potentially longer and more difficult collection periods. Because we anticipate that we will continue to rely heavily on foreign companies for our future growth, the occurrence of any of the circumstances identified above could significantly increase our operating costs, delay the timing of our revenue and harm our business and financial condition. We must design our processors to meet the needs of our OEM customers and convince them to use our products, or our revenue will be adversely affected. In general, our OEM customers design our processors into their products during the early stages of their development after an in-depth technical evaluation of both our and our competitors’ products. These design wins 26 Table of Contents are critical to the success of our business. In competing for design wins, if a competitor’s product is already designed into the product offering of a potential customer, it becomes very difficult for us to sell our products to that customer. Changing suppliers involves additional cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. In addition, our products must comply with the continually evolving specifications of networking OEMs. Our ability to compete in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to comply with these specifications. As a result, we expect to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to design our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. Even if a networking OEM designs our knowledge-based processors into its systems, we cannot assure you that its systems will be commercially successful or that we will receive significant revenue from sales of knowledge-based processors for those systems. Factors that negatively affect the businesses of the networking OEMs that use or could use our knowledge-based processors could negatively impact our total revenue. The timing and amount of our revenue depend on the ability of the networking OEMs who use our knowledge-based processors to market, produce and ship systems incorporating our technology. Factors that negatively affect a significant customer or group of customers could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Many issues beyond our control influence the success of the networking OEMs that use our products, including, for example, the highly competitive environment in which they operate, the strength of the markets for their products, their engineering capabilities, their ability or inability to obtain other components from other suppliers, the compatibility of any of their other components with our products, and their financial and other resources. Likewise, we have no control over their product development or pricing strategies, which directly affect sales of their products and, in turn, our revenue. A decline in sales of our OEM customers’ systems that use our knowledge-based processors would reduce our revenue. In addition, seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for their products could cause our operating results to fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to fall. We have a lengthy sales cycle, which may result in significant expenses that do not generate significant revenue or delayed revenue generation from our selling efforts and limits our ability to forecast our revenue. We expect that our product sales cycle, which results in our knowledge-based processors being designed into our customers’ products, could take up to 24 months. It can take an additional nine months to reach volume production of these products. A number of factors can contribute to the length of the sales cycle, including technical evaluations of our products by networking OEMs, the design process required to integrate our products into our OEM customers’ products and the timing of networking OEMs’ new product announcements. In anticipation of product orders, we may incur substantial costs before the sales cycle is complete and before we receive any customer payments. As a result, in the event that a sale is not completed or is cancelled or delayed, we may have incurred substantial expenses, making it more difficult for us to become profitable or otherwise negatively impacting our financial results. Furthermore, because of our lengthy sales cycle, our receipt of revenue from our selling efforts may be substantially delayed, our ability to forecast our future revenue may be more limited and our revenue may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we have to satisfy product warranty or liability claims. If our products are defective or malfunction, we could be subject to product warranty or product liability claims that could have significant related warranty charges or warranty reserves in our financial statements. Further, we may spend significant resources investigating potential product design, quality and reliability claims, which could result in additional charges in our financial statements until such claims are resolved. For example, during fiscal 2006 we recorded additional warranty reserves while we investigated reports by one of our international customers of malfunctioning systems that included our knowledge-based processors. We cannot guarantee that warranty reserves will either increase or decrease in future periods. Further, in connection with the master purchase agreements that we entered into with Cisco in 2005, we agreed to extended product warranties 27 Table of Contents for the benefit of Cisco. Specifically, we agreed to general three-year warranties and, in the case of epidemic failures, to five-year warranties. While we have insurance for product liability claims for matters other than product warranty, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for all of the claims that may be asserted against us. In addition, under the Cisco agreements, we have agreed to indemnify Cisco for costs incurred in rectifying epidemic failures, up to the greater of (on a per claim basis) 25% of all amounts paid to us by Cisco during the preceding 12 months or $9.0 million, plus replacement costs. If we are required to make payments under this indemnity, our operating results may be adversely affected. Moreover, these claims in the future, regardless of their outcome, could adversely affect our business. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, on a quarterly or annual basis, causing volatility in our stock price. Our total revenue and operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. As a result, you should not rely on quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our total revenue and operating results could negatively affect the trading price of our stock. In addition, our total revenue and results of operations may, in the future, be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Factors that are likely to cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate include, for example, the periodic costs associated with the generation of mask sets for new products and product improvements and the risk factors discussed throughout this section. Additional factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate from period to period include: • the timing and volume of orders received from our customers; • market demand for, and changes in the average selling prices of, our products; • the rate of qualification and adoption of our knowledge-based processors by networking OEMs; • fluctuating demand for, and lengthy life cycles of, the products and systems that incorporate our knowledge-based processors; • the market success of the OEMs’ networking systems that incorporate our products; • the ability of our wafer foundries to supply us with production capacity and finished products to sell to our OEM customers; • changes in the level of our costs and operating expenses; • our ability to receive our manufactured products from our wafer foundries and ship them within a particular reporting period; • deferrals or cancellations of customer orders in anticipation of the development and commercialization of new technologies or for other reasons; • changes in our product lines and revenue mix; • the timing of the introduction by others of competing, replacement or substitute network-aware processing technologies; • our ability or the ability of networking OEM customers that use our knowledge-based processors to procure required components or fluctuations in the cost of such components; • our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, and the significant costs to us of related litigation; • cyclical fluctuations in semiconductor or networking markets; and • general economic conditions that may affect end-user demand for products that use our knowledge-based processors. 28 Table of Contents We have grown rapidly, and a failure to manage any continued growth could reduce our potential revenue and could negatively impact our future operating results. In order to successfully implement our overall growth strategies, we will need to carefully and efficiently manage our planned expansion. Among other things, this will require us to continue to: • improve our existing knowledge-based processor technology and develop new processor technologies; • implement and manage new marketing and distribution channels to penetrate different and broader markets for our products; • manage an increasing number of complex relationships with our customers, wafer foundries and other third parties; • monitor and improve our operating systems, procedures and financial controls on a timely basis; • retain existing, and hire additional, key management and technical personnel; and • expand, train and manage our workforce and, in particular, our development, sales, marketing and support organizations. We may not be able to adequately manage our growth or meet the foregoing objectives. A failure to do so could jeopardize our future revenue and cause our stock price to decline. Also, our ability to execute our business plan and grow our business will be heavily dependent on our management team’s ability to work effectively together. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the networking markets could adversely affect our operating results and our business. We expect our business to be subject to the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry, especially the market for communications integrated circuits. Historically, there have been significant downturns in this industry segment, characterized by reduced demand for integrated circuits and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. At times, these downturns have lasted for prolonged periods of time. Furthermore, from time to time, the semiconductor industry also has experienced periods of increased demand and production constraints, in which event we may not be able to have our products produced in sufficient quantities, if at all, to satisfy our customers’ needs. It is likely that the communications integrated circuit business will experience similar downturns in the future and that, during such times, our business could be affected adversely. It is also likely that the semiconductor industry will experience periods of strong demand. We may have difficulty in obtaining enough product to sell to our customers or may face substantial increases in the wafer prices charged by our foundries. In addition, the networking industry from time to time has experienced and may experience a pronounced downturn. To respond to a downturn, many networking service providers may be required to slow their research and development activities, cancel or delay new product developments, reduce their workforces and inventories and take a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies from networking OEMs, which would have a significant negative impact on our business. In the future, a downturn in the networking industry may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from year to year, which also may tend to increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. We may not be able to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, which could impair our ability to compete and reduce the value of our technology. Our success and future revenue growth depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. However, these measures may not provide meaningful protection for our intellectual property. 29 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from any of our pending applications. Any rights granted under any of our existing or future patents may not provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. For example, such patents could be challenged or circumvented by our competitors or declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. The failure of any patents to adequately protect our technology would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products. We do not have foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to many of our U.S. patents and patent applications, including in some foreign countries where our products are sold or may be sold in the future. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. With respect to our other proprietary rights, it may be possible for third parties to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology or marks without authorization or to develop similar technology independently. Monitoring unauthorized use of our proprietary technology or marks is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technology or marks. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available or may be limited in certain foreign countries. Many companies based in the U.S. have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries, including countries in which we sell products. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could reduce the value of our technology and could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, we have in the past and may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may in the future initiate litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers or to protect our trade secrets. Litigation by us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and could materially and adversely affect our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. Any claim that our products or our proprietary technology infringe third party intellectual property rights could increase our costs of operation and distract management and could result in expensive settlement costs. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to intellectual property rights. In addition, we have received notices from time to time that claim we have infringed upon or misappropriated intellectual property rights owned by others. We typically respond when appropriate and as advised by legal counsel. We cannot assure you that parties will not pursue litigation with respect to those allegations. We may, in the future, receive similar notices, any of which could lead to litigation against us. For example, parties may initiate litigation based on allegations that we have infringed their intellectual property rights or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets or may seek to invalidate or otherwise render unenforceable one or more of our patents. Litigation against us can result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our management, technical, marketing and other personnel, whether or not the litigation results in a determination adverse to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to prevail or settle any such claims or that we will be able to do so at a reasonable cost. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages for past infringement and royalties for any future use of the technology. In addition, we may be required to cease the sale of certain products, recall certain products from the market, redesign certain products offered for sale or under development or cease the use of certain marks or names. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully redesign our products or do so at a reasonable cost. Additionally, we have in the past sought and may in the future seek to obtain a license to a third party’s intellectual rights and have granted and may in the future grant a license to certain of our intellectual property rights to a third party in connection with a cross-license agreement or a settlement of claims or actions asserted against us. However, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 30 Table of Contents Our customers could also become the target of litigation relating to the patent and other intellectual property rights of others. This could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our license or customer agreements. These obligations could result in substantial expenses, including the payment by us of costs and damages related to claims of patent infringement. In addition to the time and expense required for us to provide support or indemnification to our customers, any such litigation could disrupt the businesses of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause the sale of our products to decrease. We cannot assure you that claims for indemnification will not be made or that if made, such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We do not have any insurance coverage for intellectual property infringement claims for which we may be obligated to provide indemnification. If we are obligated to pay damages in excess of, or otherwise outside of, our insurance coverage, or if we have to settle these claims, our operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenue and market share may be reduced. Our business is extremely competitive, especially during the design-in phase of networking OEMs’ design cycles. We compete with the enterprise and networking divisions of large semiconductor manufacturers, such as IDT and Renesas Technology, Corp., which have more established reputations, more diverse customer bases and greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, our OEM customers may design their own integrated circuits to address their needs for network-aware processing. As we develop new applications for our knowledge-based processors and expand into new markets, we expect to face even greater competition. Our present and future competitors may be able to better anticipate customer and industry demands and to respond more quickly and efficiently to those demands, such as with product offerings, financial discounts or other incentives. Furthermore, our OEM customers may be able develop or acquire integrated circuits that satisfy their needs faster or most cost effectively than we can. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively against these and our other competitors. If we do not compete effectively, our revenue and market share may decline. Any acquisitions we make, such as our recent acquisition of NSE products and business from Cypress Semiconductor, could disrupt our business, and harm our financial condition and dilute our stockholders. In the future, we may consider opportunities to acquire other businesses or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. Acquisitions, like our 2006 purchase of assets and intellectual property associated with Cypress Semiconductor’s standard NSE products, present a significant number of potential challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs, reduce the value to us of the acquired company or business, including: • integration of the acquired employees, operations, technologies and products with our existing business and products; • focusing management’s time and attention on our existing core business; • retention of business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; • entering markets in which we may lack prior experience; • retention of key employees of the acquired company or business; • amortization of intangible assets, write-offs, stock-based compensation and other charges relating to the acquired business and our acquisition costs; and • dilution to our existing stockholders from the issuance of additional shares of common stock in connection with an acquisition that fails to increase the value of our company. As a result of our purchase of assets and intellectual property associated with Cypress Semiconductor’s standard NSE products, we incurred $13.0 million in charges for amortization of intangible assets, an in-process research and development charge and the effect of a fair value adjustment to acquired inventory. Additionally, we issued 1,653,407 shares of common stock to Cypress in connection with the acquisition, which represented approximately 8.3% of our common shares outstanding as of the closing date of the acquisition on February 15, 2006. 31 Table of Contents We cannot provide assurances, however, that this acquisition or future acquisitions that we might make will achieve our business objectives or increase our value or the price of our common stock. Our success may depend on our ability to comply with new or evolving industry standards applicable to our products or our business. Our ability to compete in the future may depend on our ability to ensure that our products comply with evolving industry standards affecting the networking equipment and other markets in which we compete. In addition, from time to time, new industry standards may emerge which could render our products incompatible with the products of our customers or suppliers. In order to ensure compliance with the relevant standards, we may be required to devote significant time, capital and other resources to modify or redesign our existing products or to develop new products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop products which comply with prevailing standards. If we are unable to develop these products in a timely manner, we may miss significant business opportunities, and our revenue and operating results could suffer. If an earthquake or other natural disaster disrupts the operations of our third party wafer foundries or other vendors located in high risk regions, we could experience significant delays in the production or shipment of our products. TSMC and UMC, which manufacture our products, along with most of our vendors who handle the assembly and testing of our products, are located in Asia. The risk of an earthquake in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines. In September 1999, a major earthquake in Taiwan affected the facilities of several of these third party vendors, as well as other providers of these services. As a result of this earthquake, these vendors suffered power outages and disruptions that impaired their production capacity. In March 2002 and September 2003, additional earthquakes occurred in Taiwan. The occurrence of additional earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in the disruption of the wafer foundry or assembly and test capacity of the third parties that supply these services to us. We may not be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms, if at all. Our stock price could drop, and there could be significantly less trading activity in our stock, if securities or industry analysts downgrade our stock or do not publish research or reports about our business. Our stock price and the trading market for our stock are likely to be affected significantly by the research and reports concerning our company and our business which are published by industry and securities analysts. We do not have any influence or control over these analysts, their reports or their recommendations. Our stock price and the trading market for our stock could be negatively affected if any analyst downgrades our stock, publishes a report which is critical of our business, or discontinues coverage of us. Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. Such volatility may occur in the future, particularly because of quarter-to-quarter variations in our actual or anticipated financial results, or the reported financial results of other semiconductor companies or our customers. Stock price volatility may also result from product announcements by us or our competitors, or from changes in perceptions about the various types of products we manufacture and sell. In addition, our stock price may fluctuate due to price and volume fluctuations in the stock market, especially in the technology sector. A limited number of stockholders will have the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them will, in the aggregate, beneficially own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders acting together will have the ability to 32 Table of Contents exert substantial influence over all matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed acquisition, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, they could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding an acquisition, consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which might otherwise involve the payment of a premium for your shares of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and customer agreements might delay or prevent a change of control transaction and depress the market price of our stock. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors, limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings and establish specific procedures for director nominations by stockholders and the submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law which could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. In particular, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless specific conditions are met. Any of these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including, without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. Our board of directors might issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval on such terms as the board might determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and might be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that might be issued in the future. Under our master purchase agreements with Cisco, in the event of, among other things, the transfer of at least 50% of our voting control to a Cisco competitor that generates less than 50% of its annual sales from integrated circuit products, Cisco may exercise its rights to purchase our knowledge-based processors directly from our manufacturers, subject to payments to us. This provision may discourage or complicate attempts by some third parties to acquire us. The price of our stock could decrease as a result of shares being sold in the market, including sales by directors, officers and other significant stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock from time to time. Substantially all the shares of our common stock currently outstanding are eligible for sale in the public market subject to the volume restrictions set forth in SEC Rule 144(e). We believe that as of March 2, 2007, approximately 4,332,055 shares (including currently exercisable options) are held by our directors and officers. As of March 2, 2007, half of our executive officers have entered into plans for selling a portion of their shares of common stock in the manner described under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Each plan is non-discretionary and is administered by an independent brokerage firm. The plans provide for aggregate sales of between 8,600 and 150,000 shares pursuant to limit orders at specified prices. The duration of a majority of the plans is through December 31, 2007. Pursuant to these plans, these executive officers may sell up to 401,600 shares of common stock combined during 2007. Sales of the shares are further subject to the volume restrictions set forth in SEC Rule 144(e). Each plan provides for termination upon the completion of the specified trading program, the instruction of the stockholder, or the occurrence of other specified events, whichever is earliest. All of the shares are sold through broker-dealers in ordinary market transactions. In 33 Table of Contents addition, subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, each of these executive officers may sell shares of common stock outside of these plans. Pre-designated trading under these plans may cause unexpected declines in the market price of our common stock. Our stockholder rights plan could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price for their shares from a potential acquirer. We adopted a stockholder rights plan that generally entitles our stockholders to rights to acquire additional shares of our common stock when a third party acquires 15.0% of our common stock or commences or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for at least 15.0% of our common stock, other than for certain stockholders that were stockholders prior to our initial public offering as to whom this threshold is 20.0%. This plan could delay, deter or prevent an investor from acquiring us in a transaction that could otherwise result in stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. We may need to obtain financing in order to fund our growth strategy. We believe that we have or will have access to capital sufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. After that time, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds to support our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing when needed or that, if available to us, the terms will be acceptable to us. If we issue equity securities in any financing, the new securities may have rights and preferences senior to our shares of common stock, and the ownership interest in us of our current stockholders will be proportionately reduced. If we issued debt securities, they will rank senior to all equity securities. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy, and our business could be harmed significantly. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the amount of revenue we generate, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of introductions of new products, the costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity, and the continuing market acceptance of our products, and any future business acquisitions that we might undertake. However, if we do not meet our plan, we could be required, or might elect, to seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing and additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also might decide to raise additional capital at such times and upon such terms as management considers favorable and in the interests of the Company. For this purpose, we have a current effective universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 under which we may sell up to $150 million of our debt and/or equity securities (before reductions for expenses, underwriting discounts and commissions). We may sell these securities from time-to-time without prior announcement. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following table provides the names, ages and offices of each of our executive officers as of February 27, 2007: Name Age Position Ronald Jankov 48 Director, Chief Executive Officer and President Donald Witmer 53 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Dimitrios Dimitrelis 49 Vice President of Engineering Ibrahim Korgav 58 Senior Vice President of Worldwide Business Operations Mozafar Maghsoudnia 40 Vice President of Worldwide Manufacturing Varadarajan Srinivasan 56 Vice President of Product Development and Chief Technical Officer Marcia Zander 44 Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales Roland Cortes 42 Senior Director of Legal Affairs and IP Management and Secretary 34 Table of Contents Ronald Jankov has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our board of directors since April 2000. From September 1995 to September 1999, Mr. Jankov was Vice President of Sales and then Vice President and General Manager for the Multimedia Division of NeoMagic Corporation, a provider of semiconductors for handheld systems. Prior to that time, Mr. Jankov was Vice President of Cyrix Corporation, a microprocessor company, and held various engineering, sales and management positions at other semiconductor companies, including LSI Logic Corp. and Texas Instruments. Donald Witmer has served as our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer since January 2004. From September 2001 to December 2003, Mr. Witmer was the chairman of the board and Chief Executive Officer of Home Director, Inc., a home networking company. From December 1999 to September 2001, Mr. Witmer was the chairman of the board and Chief Executive Officer of Digital Interiors, Inc., a home networking company that was acquired by Home Director in October 2000. From June 1997 to December 1999, Mr. Witmer was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Amazing Smart Card Technologies, Inc., a smart card solutions company. In addition, Mr. Witmer has served previously as Chief Financial Officer of each of Catalyst Semiconductor, Inc. and DeltaPoint, Inc. and as an accountant with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Dimitrios Dimitrelis has served as our Vice President of Engineering since July 2002. From July 1999 to March 2002, Mr. Dimitrelis was Director of Engineering for Vitesse Semiconductor Corp., a communications integrated circuit company, where he was primarily responsible for the development of a 10G network processor. From May 1998 to June 1999, Mr. Dimitrelis was Director of ASIC Development for XaQti Corporation, a manufacturer of digital network processors, which was acquired by Vitesse Semiconductor Corp. Ibrahim Korgav has served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Business Operations since January 2007 and as our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing and Business Operations from March 2002 to January 2007. From April 2001 to March 2002, Mr. Korgav was a member of the venture capital firm Global Catalyst Partners, during which time he consulted with several semiconductor companies. From April 2000 to March 2001, Mr. Korgav was Senior Vice President of Manufacturing Operations for Zaffire Inc., an optical transport systems company. From June 1994 to March 2000, Mr. Korgav was Vice President of Manufacturing Operations for NeoMagic Corporation. Mozafar Maghsoudnia has served as our Vice President of Worldwide Manufacturing since January 2007, as Vice President of Manufacturing since August 2006, and Director of Technology since June 2003. From June 1988 to June 2003, Mr. Maghsoudnia was employed by Analog Devices, Inc., where he was responsible for wafer fabrication and technology in his last assignment. Varadarajan Srinivasan has served as our Vice President of Product Development since March 1996, as our Chief Technical Officer since August 2000. From January 1989 to March 1996, Mr. Srinivasan was a director of Design Engineering for Quality Semiconductor, Inc., working with SRAMs and logic products. Marcia Zander has served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales since January 2006 and Vice President of Sales since July 1999. From July 1987 to July 1999, Ms. Zander held various sales and sales management positions, including General Sales Manager, with QuadRep, Inc., a manufacturer’s representative firm, who represented large semiconductor and other electronic component companies. From June 1984 to June 1987, Ms. Zander worked in sales and sales management for AVX Corporation and Corning Electronics. Roland Cortes has served as our Secretary since May 2004, as our Senior Director of Legal Affairs and IP Management since July 2002, and as our Director of Legal Affairs and IP Management since April 1999. From December 1995 to April 1999, Mr. Cortes was an intellectual property attorney with Blakely, Sokoloff, Taylor & Zafman LLP. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 35 Table of Contents 