ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this report, including the risk factors listed below. Risks and uncertainties in addition to those we describe below, that may not be presently known to us, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also harm our business and operations. If any of these risks occurs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed, the price of our common stock could decline, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Risks related to our business We have a limited operating history, expect to continue to incur substantial operating losses and may be unable to obtain additional financing, causing our independent auditors to express substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern We have been unprofitable since our inception in 2003 and could continue to incur substantial additional operating losses and negative cash flow from operations for at least the next twelve months. As of December 31, 2010, these conditions raised substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. At December 31, 2010, cash and cash equivalents amounted to $4.6 million and we had a working capital of approximately $1.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, our cash and cash equivalents used in operating activities amounted to $8.4 million. Although we have recently taken actions to decrease expenses, increase revenues and obtain additional financing, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. We may not be successful in raising necessary funds on acceptable terms or at all, and we may not be able to offset this by sufficient reductions in expenses and increases in revenue. If this occurs, we may be unable to meet our cash obligations as they become due and we may be required to further delay or reduce operating expenses and curtail our operations, which would have a material adverse effect on us. 12 Table of Contents We may fail to successfully manage and grow our business, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business Continued expansion could put significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. The need to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC will continue to place significant demands on our financial and accounting staff, financial, accounting and information systems, and our internal controls and procedures, any of which may not be adequate to support our anticipated growth. We may not be able to effectively hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to satisfy our reporting obligations, or achieve our operating, marketing, commercialization and financial goals. Recent actions to reduce costs and streamline our operations, as well as any future cost reductions, could place further demands on our personnel, which could hinder our ability to effectively execute on our business strategies. We will need additional funding, and we cannot guarantee that we will find adequate sources of capital in the future We have incurred negative cash flows from operations since inception and have expended, and expect to continue to expend, substantial funds to grow our business. We currently estimate that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will only be sufficient to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements into the second half of 2011. We could require additional funds before we achieve positive cash flows and we may never become cash flow positive. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, such financing will result in further dilution to our stockholders. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technology or products, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We do not know whether additional financing will be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on commercially acceptable terms, we may need to continue to downsize, curtail program development efforts or halt our operations altogether. Our treatment programs may not be as effective as we believe them to be, which could limit our revenue growth Our belief in the efficacy of our OnTrak solution and PROMETA Treatment Program is based on a limited number of studies and commercial pilots that have been conducted to date and our initial experience with a relatively small number of patients. Such results may not be statistically significant, have not been subjected to close scientific scrutiny, and may not be indicative of the long-term future performance and safety of treatment with our programs. Future controlled scientific studies, may yield results that are unfavorable or demonstrate that treatment with our programs is not clinically effective or safe. If the initially indicated results cannot be successfully replicated or maintained over time, utilization of our programs could decline substantially. Our success is dependent on our ability to enroll third-party payor members in our OnTrak programs. Large scale outreach and enrollment efforts have not been conducted and we may not be able to achieve the anticipated enrollment rates. 13 Table of Contents Our OnTrak Program or PROMETA Treatment Program may not become widely accepted, which could limit our growth Further marketplace acceptance of our programs may largely depend upon healthcare providers’ and third-party payors’ interpretation of our limited data, the results of studies, pilots and programs, including financial and clinical outcome data from our OnTrak Programs, or upon reviews and reports that may be given by independent researchers or other clinicians. In the event such outcomes or research does not establish our treatment programs to be safe and effective, it is unlikely we will be able to achieve widespread market acceptance. In addition, our ability to achieve further marketplace acceptance for our OnTrak Program may be dependent on our ability to contract with a sufficient number of third party payors to and demonstrate financial and clinical outcomes from those agreements. If we are unable to secure sufficient contracts to achieve recognition of acceptance of our OnTrak program or if our program does not demonstrate the expected level of clinical improvement and cost savings it is unlikely we will be able to achieve widespread market acceptance. Disappointing results for our PROMETA Treatment Program or Catasys Program, or failure to attain our publicly disclosed milestones, could adversely affect market acceptance and have a material adverse effect on our stock price There are several studies, evaluations and pilot programs that have been completed or are currently in progress that are evaluating our PROMETA Treatment Program and the OnTrak Program. Some results have been published and we expect results to become available and/or published over time. Disappointing results, later-than-expected press release announcements or termination of evaluations, pilot programs or commercial programs could have a material adverse effect on the commercial acceptance of the PROMETA Treatment Program, our stock price and on our results of operations. In addition, announcements regarding results, or anticipation of results, may increase volatility in our stock price. In addition to numerous upcoming milestones, from time to time we provide financial guidance and other forecasts to the market. While we believe that the assumptions underlying projections and forecasts we make publicly available are reasonable, projections and forecasts are inherently subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Any failure to achieve milestones, or to do so in a timely manner, or to achieve publicly announced guidance and forecasts, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the price of our common stock. Our industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully The healthcare business, in general, and the substance dependence treatment business in particular, are highly competitive. We compete with many types of substance dependence treatment methods, treatment facilities and other service providers, many of whom are more established and better funded than we are. Many of these other treatment methods and facilities are well established in the same markets we target, have substantial sales volume, and are provided and marketed by companies with much greater financial resources, facilities, organization, reputation and experience than we have. The historical focus on the use of psychological or behavioral therapies, as opposed to medical or physiological treatments for substance dependence, may create further resistance to penetrating the substance dependence treatment market. There are a number of companies developing or marketing medications for reducing craving in the treatment of alcoholism, including: · the addiction medication naltrexone, an opiate receptor antagonist, is marketed by a number of generic pharmaceutical companies as well as under the trade names ReVia® and Depade®, for treatment of alcohol dependence; · VIVITROL®, an extended release formulation of naltrexone manufactured by Alkermes, administered via monthly injections for the treatment of alcohol dependence in patients who are able to abstain from drinking in an outpatient setting, and are not actively drinking prior to treatment initiation. Alkermes reported that in clinical trials, when used in combination with psychosocial support, VIVITROL was shown to reduce the number of drinking days and heavy drinking days and to prolong abstinence in patients who abstained from alcohol the week prior to starting treatment; 14 Table of Contents · Campral® Delayed-Release Tablets (acamprosate calcium), an NMDA receptor antagonist taken two to three times per day on a chronic or long-term basis and marketed by Forest Laboratories. Clinical studies supported the effectiveness in the maintenance of abstinence for alcohol-dependent patients who had undergone inpatient detoxification and were already abstinent from alcohol; and · Tropiramate (Topamax®), a drug manufactured by Ortho-McNeill Jannssen, which is approved for the treatment of seizures. A multi-site clinical trial reported in October 2007 found that tropiramate significantly reduced heavy drinking days in alcohol-dependent individuals. Our competitors may develop and introduce new processes and products that are equal or superior to our programs in treating alcohol and substance dependencies. Accordingly, we may be adversely affected by any new processes and technology developed by our competitors. There are approximately 13,500 facilities reporting to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration that provide substance abuse treatment on an inpatient or outpatient basis. Well known examples of residential treatment programs include the Betty Ford Center®, Caron Foundation®, Hazelden® and Sierra Tucson®. In addition, individual physicians may provide substance dependence treatment in the course of their practices. While we believe our products and services are unique, we operate in highly competitive markets. We compete with other healthcare management service organizations and disease management companies, including MBHOs, HMOs, PPOs, third-party administrators and other specialty healthcare and managed care companies. Most of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us. We believe that our ability to offer customers a comprehensive and integrated substance dependence solution, including the utilization of innovative medical and psychosocial treatments, and our unique technology platform will enable us to compete effectively. However, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter more effective competition in the future, which would limit our ability to maintain or increase our business. We depend on key personnel, the loss of which could impact the ability to manage our business Our future success depends on the performance of our senior management and operating personnel. The loss of the services of any key member of management and operating personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We and our Chief Executive Officer are a party to litigation, which, if determined adversely to us, could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. We and our Chief Executive Officer are party to a litigation in which the plaintiffs assert causes of action for conversion, a request for an order to set aside fraudulent conveyance and breach of contract. While we believe the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit and we intend to continue to vigorously defend the case, there can be no assurance that the litigation will be resolved in our favor. If this case is decided against us or our Chief Executive Officer, it may cause us to pay substantial damages, and other related fees. Regardless of whether this litigation is resolved in our favor, any lawsuit to which we are a party will likely be expensive and time consuming to defend or resolve. This could also divert management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. Costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flows and financial results. Please see “Item 3 Legal Proceedings” for more information. We may be subject to future litigation, which could result in substantial liabilities that may exceed our insurance coverage All significant medical treatments and procedures, including treatment utilizing our programs, involve the risk of serious injury or death. Even under proper medical supervision, withdrawal from alcohol may cause severe physical reactions. While we have not been the subject of any such claims, our business entails an inherent risk of claims for personal injuries and substantial damage awards. We cannot control whether individual physicians will apply the appropriate standard of care, or conform to our treatment programs in determining how to treat their patients. While our agreements typically require physicians to indemnify us for their negligence, there can be no assurance they will be willing and financially able to do so if claims are made. In addition, our license agreements require us to indemnify physicians, hospitals or their affiliates for losses resulting from our negligence. We currently have insurance coverage for up to $7 million per year, in the aggregate, for personal injury claims. We maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance coverage, subject to a self insured retention of $0 to $250,000 per claim. We may not be able to maintain adequate liability insurance at acceptable costs or on favorable terms. We expect that liability insurance will be more difficult to obtain and that premiums will increase over time and as the volume of patients treated with our programs increases. In the event of litigation, we may sustain significant damages or settlement expense (regardless of a claim's merit), litigation expense and significant harm to our reputation. 15 Table of Contents If third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate payment rates for our programs, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed Our future revenue growth will depend in part upon our ability to contract with third-party payors, such as self-insured employers, insurance plans and unions for our OnTrak program. To date, we have not received significant amount of revenue from our OnTrak substance dependence programs from managed care organizations and other third-party payors, and acceptance of our OnTrak substance dependence programs is critical to the future prospects of our business. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs, and may not cover or provide adequate payment for treatment using our programs. Adequate third-party payment might not be available to enable us to realize an appropriate return on investment in research and product development, and the lack of such reimbursement could have a material adverse effect on our operations and could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We may not be able to achieve promised savings for our OnTrak contracts, which could result in pricing levels insufficient to cover our costs or ensure profitability We anticipate that many or all of our Catasys contracts will be based upon anticipated or guaranteed levels of savings for our customers and achieving other operational metrics resulting in incentive fees based on savings. If we are unable to meet or exceed promised savings or achieve agreed upon operational metrics, we may be required to refund from the amount of fees paid to us any difference between savings that were guaranteed and the savings, if any, which were actually achieved; or we may fail to earn incentive fees based on savings. Accordingly, during or at the end of the contract terms, we may be required to refund some or all of the fees paid for our services. This exposes us to significant risk that contracts negotiated and entered into may ultimately be unprofitable. In addition, operations are at risk for costs incurred to provide the agreed upon services under our program. Therefore, failure to anticipate or control costs could have materially adverse effects on our business. Our prior international operations may be subject to foreign regulation The criteria of foreign laws, regulations and requirements are often vague and subject to change and interpretation. Our prior international operations may become the subject of foreign regulatory, civil, criminal or other investigations or proceedings, and our interpretations of applicable laws and regulations may be challenged. The defense of any such challenge could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management’s time and attention, regardless of whether it ultimately is successful. If we fail to comply with any applicable international laws, or a determination is made that we have failed to comply with these laws, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards may be limited As of December 31, 2010, we had net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) of approximately $151.3 million for federal income tax purposes that will begin to expire in 2023. These NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income, to the extent we generate any taxable income, and thereby reduce or eliminate our future federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes limitations on a corporation's ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an ownership change as defined in Section 382. In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percent over a three-year period. In the event that an ownership change has occurred, or were to occur, utilization of our NOLs would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382 determined by multiplying the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years. We may be found to have experienced an ownership change under Section 382 as a result of events in the past or the issuance of shares of common stock upon a conversion of notes, or a combination thereof. If so, the use of our NOLs, or a portion thereof, against our future taxable income may be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382, which may result in expiration of a portion of our NOLs before utilization. 16 Table of Contents Risks related to our intellectual property We may not be able to adequately protect the proprietary PROMETA Treatment Program which is important to our business We consider the protection of our proprietary PROMETA Treatment Program to be important to our business prospects. We obtained the rights to some of our most significant PROMETA technologies through an agreement that is subject to a number of conditions and restrictions, and a breach or termination of that agreement or the bankruptcy of any party to that agreement could significantly impact our ability to use and develop our technologies. While we have three issued U.S. patents, one relating to the treatment of cocaine dependency with our PROMETA Treatment Program one relating to our PROMETA Treatment Program for the treatment of certain symptoms associated with alcohol dependency, and one related to the treatment of methamphetamine dependency. The patent applications we have licensed or filed may not issue as patents, and any issued patents may be too narrow in scope to provide us with a competitive advantage. Our patent position is uncertain and includes complex factual and legal issues, including the existence of prior art that may preclude or limit the scope of patent protection. Issued patents will generally expire twenty years after their priority date. Two of our three issued U.S. patents will expire in 2021 and the third in 2028. Further, our patents and pending applications for patents and other intellectual property have been pledged as collateral to secure our obligations to pay certain debts, and our default with respect to those obligations could result in the transfer of our patents to our creditor. In the event of such a transfer, we may be unable to continue to operate our business. Patent examiners may reject our patent applications and thereby prevent us from receiving more patents. Competitors, licensees and others may challenge our patents and, if successful, our patents may be denied, subjected to reexamination, rendered unenforceable, or invalidated. The cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents, and to protect and prevent infringement can be substantial. We may not be able to adequately protect the aspects of our treatment programs that are not patented or have only limited patent protection. Furthermore, competitors and others may independently develop similar or more advanced treatment programs and technologies, may design around aspects of our technology, or may discover or duplicate our trade secrets and proprietary methods. To the extent we utilize processes and technology that constitute trade secrets under applicable laws, we must implement appropriate levels of security to ensure protection of such laws, which we may not do effectively. Policing compliance with our confidentiality agreements and unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. The loss of any of our trade secrets or proprietary rights which may be protected under the foregoing intellectual property safeguards may result in the loss of our competitive advantage over present and potential competitors. Our intellectual property may not prove to be an effective barrier to competition, in which case our business could be materially adversely affected. Our pending patent applications disclose and claim various approaches to the use of the PROMETA Treatment Program. There is no assurance that we will receive one or more patents from these pending applications, or that, even if we receive one or more patents, the patent claims will be sufficiently broad to create patent infringement liability for competitors using treatment programs similar to the PROMETA Treatment Program. Confidentiality agreements with employees, licensees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality provisions in our agreements with employees, licensees, treating physicians and others. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We have had several instances in which it was necessary to send a formal demand to cease and desist using our programs to treat patients due to breach of confidentiality provisions in our agreements, and in one instance have had to file suit to enforce these provisions. 17 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, and unfavorable outcomes could harm our business Our future operations may be subject to claims, and potential litigation, arising from our alleged infringement of patents, trade secrets or copyrights owned by other third parties. Within the healthcare, drug and bio-technology industry, many companies actively pursue infringement claims and litigation, which makes the entry of competitive products more difficult. We may experience claims or litigation initiated by existing, better-funded competitors and by other third parties. Court-ordered injunctions may prevent us from continuing to market existing products or from bringing new products to market and the outcome of litigation and any resulting loss of revenues and expenses of litigation may substantially affect our ability to meet our expenses and continue operations. Risks related to our industry The recently enacted healthcare reforms pose risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse affect on our business. There may be risks and uncertainties arising from the recently enacted healthcare reform and the implementing regulations that will be issued in the future. If we fail to comply with these laws or are unable to deal with these risks and uncertainties in an effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our policies and procedures may not fully comply with complex and increasing regulation by state and federal authorities, which could negatively impact our business operations Our PROMETA Treatment Program has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and while the drugs incorporated in the PROMETA Treatment Program have been approved for other indications, they are not FDA approved for the treatment of alcohol or substance dependency. We have not sought, and do not currently intend to seek, FDA approval for the PROMETA Treatment Program. It is possible that in the future the FDA could require us to seek FDA approval for the PROMETA Treatment Program. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and continues to undergo significant changes as third-party payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, traditional indemnity insurers, managed care organizations and other private payors increase efforts to control cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services. Healthcare companies are subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local laws, regulations and judicial decisions. The U.S. Congress and state legislatures are considering legislation that could limit funding to our licensees. In addition, the FDA regulates development, testing, labeling, manufacturing, marketing, promotion, distribution, record-keeping and reporting requirements for prescription drugs, medical devices and biologics. Other regulatory requirements apply to dietary supplements, including vitamins. Compliance with laws and regulations enforced by regulatory agencies that have broad discretion in applying them may be required for our programs or other medical programs or services developed or used by us. Many healthcare laws and regulations applicable to our business are complex, applied broadly and subject to interpretation by courts and government agencies. Regulatory, political and legal action and pricing pressures could prevent us from marketing some or all of our products and services for a period of time or permanently. Our failure, or the failure of our licensees, to comply with applicable regulations may result in the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions that we cannot afford, or require redesign or withdrawal of our programs from the market. We may be subject to regulatory, enforcement and investigative proceedings, which could adversely affect our financial condition or operations We could become the subject of regulatory, enforcement, or other investigations or proceedings, and our relationships, business structure, and interpretations of applicable laws and regulations may be challenged. The defense of any such challenge could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management’s time and attention. In addition, any such challenges could require significant changes to how we conduct our business. Any such challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of whether it ultimately is successful. If determination is made that we have failed to comply with any applicable laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents The promotion of our treatment programs may be found to violate federal law concerning off-label uses of prescription drugs, which could prevent us from marketing our programs Generally, the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic (FDC) Act, requires that a prescription drug be approved by the FDA for a specific indication before the product can be distributed in interstate commerce. Although the FDC Act does not prohibit a doctor’s use of a drug for another indication (this is referred to as off-label use), it does prohibit the promotion of a drug product for an unapproved use. The FDA also permits the non-promotional discussion of information related to off-label use in the context of scientific or medical communications. Our treatment programs include the use of prescription drugs that have been approved by the FDA, but not for the treatment of chemical dependence and drug addiction, which is how the drugs are used in our programs. Although we carefully structure our communications in a way that is intended to comply with the FDC Act and FDA regulations, it is possible that our actions could be found to violate the prohibition on off-label promotion of drugs. In addition, the FDC Act imposes limits on the types of claims that may be made for a dietary supplement, and the promotion of a dietary supplement beyond such claims may also be seen as the unlawful promotion of a drug product for an unapproved use. Because our treatment programs also include the use of nutritional supplements, it is possible that claims made for those products could also put us at risk of FDA enforcement for making unlawful claims. Violations of the FDC Act or FDA regulations can result in a range of sanctions, including administrative actions by the FDA (such as issuance of a Warning Letter), seizure of product, issuance of an injunction prohibiting future violations, and imposition of criminal or civil penalties. A successful enforcement action could prevent promotion of our treatment programs and we may be unable to continue operating under our current business model. Even if we defeat an enforcement action, the expenses associated with doing so, as well as the negative publicity concerning the “off-label” use of drugs in our treatment programs, could adversely affect our business and results of operation. The FDA has recently increased enforcement efforts in the area of promotion of “off-label” use of drugs, and we cannot assure you that our business practices or third party clinical trials will not come under scrutiny. Treatment using our programs may be found to require FDA or other review or approval, which could delay or prevent the study or use of our treatment programs Under authority of the FDC Act, the FDA extensively regulates entities and individuals engaged in the conduct of clinical trials, which broadly includes experiments in which a drug is administered to humans. FDA regulations require, among other things, submission of a clinical trial treatment program for FDA review, obtaining from the agency an investigational new drug (IND) exemption before initiating a clinical trial, obtaining appropriate informed consent from study subjects, having the study approved and subject to continuing review by an Institutional Review Board (IRB), and reporting to FDA safety information regarding the conduct of the trial. Certain third parties have engaged or are engaging in the use of our treatment program and the collection of outcomes data in ways that may be considered to constitute a clinical trial, and that may be subject to FDA regulations and require IRB approval and oversight. In addition, it is possible that use of our treatment program by individual physicians in treating their patients may be found to constitute a clinical trial or investigation that requires IRB review or submission of an IND or is otherwise subject to regulation by FDA. The FDA has authority to inspect clinical investigation sites and IRBs, and to take action with regard to any violations. Violations of FDA regulations regarding clinical trials can result in a range of actions, including suspension of the trial, prohibiting the clinical investigator from ever participating in clinical trials, and criminal prosecution. Individual hospitals and physicians may also submit their use of our treatment programs to their IRBs, which may prohibit or place restrictions on it. FDA enforcement actions or IRB restrictions could adversely affect our business and the ability of our customers to use our treatment programs. The FDA has recently increased enforcement efforts regarding clinical trials, and we cannot assure you that the activities of our customers or others using our treatment programs will not come under scrutiny. Failure to comply with FTC or similar state laws could result in sanctions or limit the claims we can make Our promotional activities and materials, including advertising to consumers and professionals, and materials provided to licensees for their use in promoting our treatment programs, are regulated by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) under the FTC Act, which prohibits unfair and deceptive acts and practices, including claims which are false, misleading or inadequately substantiated. The FTC typically requires competent and reliable scientific tests or studies to substantiate express or implied claims that a product or service is safe or effective. If the FTC were to interpret our promotional materials as making express or implied claims that our treatment programs are safe or effective for the treatment of alcohol, cocaine or methamphetamine addiction, or any other claims, it may find that we do not have adequate substantiation for such claims. Allegations of a failure to comply with the FTC Act or similar laws enforced by state attorneys general and other state and local officials could result in administrative or judicial orders limiting or eliminating the claims we can make about our treatment programs, and other sanctions including substantial financial penalties. 19 Table of Contents Our business practices may be found to constitute illegal fee-splitting or corporate practice of medicine, which may lead to penalties and adversely affect our business Many states, including California in which our principal executive offices and our managed treatment center is located, have laws that prohibit business corporations, such as us, from practicing medicine, exercising control over medical judgments or decisions of physicians, or engaging in arrangements with physicians such as employment, payment for referrals or fee-splitting. Courts, regulatory authorities or other parties, including physicians, may assert that we are engaged in the unlawful corporate practice of medicine by providing administrative and other services in connection with our treatment programs or by consolidating the revenues of the physician practice we manage, or that licensing our technology for a license fee that could be characterized as a portion of the patient fees, or subleasing space and providing turn-key business management to affiliated medical groups in exchange for management and licensing fees, constitute improper fee-splitting or payment for referrals, in which case we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, our contracts could be found invalid and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or we could be required to restructure our contractual arrangements. If so, we may be unable to restructure our contractual arrangements on favorable terms, which would adversely affect our business and operations. Our business practices may be found to violate anti-kickback, physician self-referral or false claims laws, which may lead to penalties and adversely affect our business The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal and state regulation with respect to financial relationships and kickbacks involving healthcare providers, physician self-referral arrangements, filing of false claims and other fraud and abuse issues. Federal anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit offers, payments, solicitations, or receipts of remuneration in return for (i) referring patients for items or services covered by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs, or (ii) purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending any service, good, item or facility for which payment may be made by a federal health care program. In addition, subject to numerous exceptions, federal physician self-referral legislation, commonly known as the Stark law, generally prohibits a physician from referring patients for certain designated health services reimbursable by Medicare or Medicaid from any entity with which the physician has a financial relationship, and many states have analogous laws. Other federal and state laws govern the submission of claims for reimbursement, or false claims laws. One of the most prominent of these laws is the federal Civil False Claims Act, and violations of other laws, such as the federal anti-kickback law or the FDA prohibitions against promotion of off-label uses of drugs, may also be prosecuted as violations of the Civil False Claims Act. Federal or state authorities may claim that our fee arrangements, agreements and relationships with contractors, hospitals and physicians violate these laws and regulations. Violations of these laws may be punishable by monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from participation in government-sponsored healthcare programs and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such laws. If our business practices are found to violate any of these provisions, we may be unable to continue with our relationships or implement our business plans, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be subject to healthcare anti-fraud initiatives, which may lead to penalties and adversely affect our business State and federal governments are devoting increased attention and resources to anti-fraud initiatives against healthcare providers, and may take an expansive definition of fraud that includes receiving fees in connection with a healthcare business that is found to violate any of the complex regulations described above. While to our knowledge we have not been the subject of any anti-fraud investigations, if such a claim were made defending our business practices could be time consuming and expensive, and an adverse finding could result in substantial penalties or require us to restructure our operations, which we may not be able to do successfully. 20 Table of Contents Our use and disclosure of patient information is subject to privacy and security regulations, which may result in increased costs In conducting research or providing administrative services to healthcare providers in connection with the use of our treatment programs, we may collect, use, disclose, maintain and transmit patient information in ways that will be subject to many of the numerous state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, storage, transmission and/or confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including the administrative simplification requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing regulations (HIPAA) and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (HITECH). The HIPAA Privacy Rule restricts the use and disclosure of patient information, and requires safeguarding that information. The HIPAA Security Rule and HITECH establish elaborate requirements for safeguarding patient information transmitted or stored electronically. HIPAA applies to covered entities, which may include healthcare facilities and does include health plans that will contract for the use of our programs and our services. The HIPAA and HITECH rules require covered entities to bind contractors like us to compliance with certain burdensome HIPAA rule requirements known as business associate requirements and data security provision and reporting requirements. If we are providing management services that include electronic billing on behalf of a physician practice or facility that is a covered entity, we may be required to conduct those electronic transactions in accordance with the HIPAA and HITECH regulations governing the form and format of those transactions. Services provided under our Catasys program also require us to comply with HIPAA, HITECH, Title 42 of the Code of Federal Regulations, which governs the confidentiality of certain patient identified drug and alcohol information, and other privacy and security regulations. Other federal and state laws restricting the use and protecting the privacy and security of patient information also apply to our licensees directly and in some cases to us, either directly or indirectly. We may be required to make costly system purchases and modifications to comply with the HIPAA and HITECH rule requirements that are imposed on us and our failure to comply may result in liability and adversely affect our business. Our failure to comply with the applicable regulations may result in imposition of civil or criminal sanctions that we cannot afford, or require redesign or withdrawal of our programs from the market. Federal and state consumer protection laws are being applied increasingly by the FTC and state attorneys general to regulate the collection, use, storage, and disclosure of personal or patient information, through web sites or otherwise, and to regulate the presentation of web site content. Courts may also adopt the standards for fair information practices promulgated by the FTC, which concern consumer notice, choice, security and access. Numerous other federal and state laws protect the confidentiality and security of personal and patient information. Other countries also have, or are developing laws governing the collection, use, disclosure and transmission of personal or patient information and these laws could create liability for us or increase our cost of doing business. Our business arrangements with health care providers may be deemed to be franchises, which could negatively impact our business operations Franchise arrangements in the United States are subject to rules and regulations of the FTC and various state laws relating to the offer and sale of franchises. A number of the states in which we operate regulate the sale of franchises and require registration of the franchise offering circular with state authorities and the delivery of a franchise offering circular to prospective franchisees. State franchise laws often limit, among other things, the duration and scope of non-competitive provisions, the ability of a franchisor to terminate or refuse to renew a franchise and the ability of a franchisor to designate sources of supply. Franchise laws and regulations are complex, apply broadly and are subject to interpretation by courts and government agencies. Federal or state authorities or healthcare providers with whom we contract may claim that the agreements under which we license rights to our technology and trademarks and provide services violate these laws and regulations. Violations of these laws are punishable by monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such laws. If our business practices are found to constitute franchises, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, our contracts could be found invalid and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or we could be required to restructure our contractual arrangements. We may be unable to continue with our relationships or restructure them on favorable terms, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may also be required to furnish prospective franchisees with a franchise offering circular containing prescribed information, and restrict how we market to or deal with healthcare providers, potentially limiting and substantially increasing our cost of doing business. 21 Table of Contents Certain of our professional healthcare employees, such as nurses, must comply with individual licensing requirements All of our healthcare professionals who are subject to licensing requirements, such as our care coaches, are licensed in the state in which they are physically present. Multiple state licensing requirements for healthcare professionals who provide services telephonically over state lines may require us to license some of our healthcare professionals in more than one state. New and evolving agency interpretations, federal or state legislation or regulations, or judicial decisions could increase the requirement for multi-state licensing of all call center health professionals, which would increase our costs of services. Risks related to our common stock Our common stock is thinly traded, and it is therefore susceptible to wide price swings. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “CATS.OB.” Thinly traded stocks are more susceptible to significant and sudden price changes than stocks that are widely followed by the investment community and actively traded on an exchange or NASDAQ. The liquidity of our common stock depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers. We cannot assure you that you will be able to find a buyer for your shares. In the future, if we successfully list the common stock on a securities exchange or obtain NASDAQ, or other national securities exchange, trading authorization, we will not be able to assure you that an organized public market for our securities will develop or that there will be any private demand for the common stock. We could also subsequently fail to satisfy the standards for continued exchange listing or NASDAQ or other national securities exchange trading, such as standards having to do with a minimum share price, the minimum number of public shareholders or the aggregate market value of publicly held shares. Any holder of our securities should regard them as a long-term investment and should be prepared to bear the economic risk of an investment in our securities for an indefinite period. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our operating results and the market for our common stock Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we maintain internal control over financial reporting that meets applicable standards. As with many smaller companies with small staff, other material weaknesses in our financial controls and procedures may be discovered. If we are unable, or are perceived as unable, to produce reliable financial reports due to internal control deficiencies, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and operating results, which could result in a negative market reaction and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Approximately 33% of our stock is controlled by our chairman and chief executive officer, who has the ability to substantially influence the election of directors and other matters submitted to stockholders 13,600,000, 207,045,924 and 22,216,628 shares are held of record by Reserva Capital, LLC, Socius LLC and Bonmore, LLC, respectively , whose sole managing member is our chairman and chief executive officer, The actual shares owned represent 29% of our 834,419,950 shares outstanding as of March 28, 2011. As a result, he has and is expected to continue to have the ability to significantly influence the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of all other issues submitted to our stockholders. The interests of these principal stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances his best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. One consequence to this substantial influence or control is that it may be difficult for investors to remove management of the company. It could also deter unsolicited takeovers, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Our stock price may be subject to substantial volatility, and the value of your investment may decline The market price of our common stock has experienced downward substantial volatility. The price at which our common stock will trade may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the number of shares available for sale in the market, quarterly variations in our operating results and actual or anticipated announcements of pilots and scientific studies of the effectiveness of our PROMETA Treatment Program, our OnTrak Program, announcements regarding new or discontinued OnTrak Program contracts, new products or services by us or competitors, regulatory investigations or determinations, acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors, recruitment or departures of key personnel, the gain or loss of significant customers, changes in the estimates of our operating performance, actual or threatened litigation, market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. 22 Table of Contents Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: · announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors; current events affecting the political, economic and social situation in the United States and other countries where we operate; · trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; · acquisitions and financings by us or our competitors; · the gain or loss of a significant customer; · quarterly variations in operating results; · the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may consider to be comparable; · purchases or sales of blocks of our securities; and · issuances of stock. Furthermore, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. Future sales of common stock by existing stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our stock price The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by, or the perceived possibility of sales by, our existing stockholders. We have completed a number of private placements of our common stock and other securities over the last several years, and we have effective resale registration statements pursuant to which the purchasers can freely resell their shares into the market. In addition, most of our outstanding shares are eligible for public resale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Approximately 293 million shares of our common stock are currently held by our affiliates and may be sold pursuant to an effective registration statement or in accordance with the volume and other limitations of Rule 144 or pursuant to other exempt transactions. Future sales of common stock by significant stockholders, including those who acquired their shares in private placements or who are affiliates, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the price of our common stock. Future issuances of common stock and hedging activities may depress the trading price of our common stock Any future issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon direct registration, upon satisfaction of our obligations, compensation of vendors, exercise of outstanding warrants, or effectuation of a reverse stock split, of which we have already received approval from our stockholders, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock. We currently have outstanding approximately 208 million options and 94 million warrants to acquire our common stock at prices between $0.01 and $8.56 per share. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, in connection with acquisitions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. 23 Table of Contents There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock In the future, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financing, which might include sales of equity securities. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or that represent the right to receive common stock or the exercise of such securities could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of our common stock made after this offering or the perception that such sales could occur. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interests in us. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, charter documents and Delaware law could discourage a change in control, or an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to you, thereby and adversely affect existing stockholders Our certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Delaware law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, and accordingly you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the continued development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Further, any payment of cash dividends will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors, including contractual restrictions to which we may be subject, and will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 