Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Inherent in Our Business Future acquisitions and completion of expansion projects will require significant amounts of debt and equity financing which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We plan to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures, including any future expansions we may undertake, with proceeds from sales of our debt and equity securities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility; however, we cannot be certain that we will be able to issue our debt and equity securities on terms or in 18 Table of Contents the proportions that we expect, or at all, and we may be unable refinance our revolving credit facility when it expires. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our current revolving credit facility because our lending counterparties may be unable to meet their funding obligations. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions may make it difficult to obtain funding. The cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. A significant increase in our indebtedness, or an increase in our indebtedness that is proportionately greater than our issuances of equity, as well as the credit market and debt and equity capital market conditions discussed above could negatively impact our credit ratings or our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our revolving credit agreement which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to finance acquisitions or our expansion projects as expected, we could be required to seek alternative financing, the terms of which may not be attractive to us, or to revise or cancel our expansion plans. If we do not continue to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future financial performance may be limited. Due to increased competition from alternative energy sources the propane industry is not a growth industry. In addition, as a result of long-standing customer relationships that are typical in the retail home propane industry, the inconvenience of switching tanks and suppliers and propane’s higher cost as compared to other energy sources, we may have difficulty in increasing our retail customer base other than through acquisitions. Therefore, while our operating objectives include promoting internal growth, our ability to grow depends principally on acquisitions. Our future financial performance depends on our ability to continue to make acquisitions at attractive prices. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to identify attractive acquisition candidates in the future or that we will be able to acquire businesses on economically acceptable terms. In particular, competition for acquisitions in the propane business has intensified and become more costly. We may not be able to grow as rapidly as we expect through our acquisition of additional businesses for various reasons, including the following: • We will use our cash from operations primarily to service our debt and for distributions to unitholders and reinvestment in our business. Consequently, the extent to which we are unable to use cash or access capital to pay for additional acquisitions may limit our growth and impair our operating results. Further, we are subject to certain debt incurrence covenants under our bank credit agreement and the indentures that govern our senior notes that may restrict our ability to incur additional debt to finance acquisitions. • Although we intend to use our securities as acquisition currency, some prospective sellers may not be willing to accept our securities as consideration. • We will use cash for capital expenditures related to expansion projects, which will reduce our cash available to pay for additional acquisitions. Moreover, acquisitions involve potential risks, including: • our inability to integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 19 Table of Contents • customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; and • a significant increase in our indebtedness. Our growth strategy includes acquiring entities with lines of business that are distinct and separate from our existing operations which could subject us to additional business and operating risks. Consistent with our announced growth strategy and our acquisition of the US Salt facility and related assets, we may acquire assets that have operations in new and distinct lines of business from our existing operations. Integration of new business segments is a complex, costly and time-consuming process and may involve assets in which we have limited operating experience. Failure to timely and successfully integrate acquired entities’ new lines of business with our existing operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The difficulties of integrating new business segments with existing operations include, among other things: • operating distinct business segments that require different operating strategies and different managerial expertise; • the necessity of coordinating organizations, systems and facilities in different locations; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; and • consolidating corporate and administrative functions. In addition, the diversion of our attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the new business segments, such as unanticipated liabilities or costs, could harm our existing business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Furthermore, new lines of business will subject us to additional business and operating risks which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may be unable to successfully integrate our recent acquisitions. One of our primary business strategies is to grow through acquisitions. There is no assurance that we will successfully integrate acquisitions into our operations, or that we will achieve the desired profitability from our acquisitions. Failure to successfully integrate these substantial acquisitions could adversely affect our operations. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: • operating a significantly larger combined organization and integrating additional retail and wholesale distribution operations to our existing supply, marketing and distribution operations; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel from diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; • consolidating corporate, technological and administrative functions; • integrating internal controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. In addition, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, such as cost-savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher costs, unknown liabilities and fluctuations in markets. 20 Table of Contents Our indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions to our unitholders, or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities, in addition to impairing our ability to fulfill our debt obligation under our senior notes. As of September 30, 2010, we had $1.7 billion of total outstanding indebtedness. Our leverage, various limitations in the agreements governing our credit facility, other restrictions governing our indebtedness and the indentures governing our senior notes may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to engage in some transactions and to capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Our indebtedness and other financial obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could: • make it more difficult for us to make distributions to our unitholders; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general partnership purposes or other purposes; • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of our debt is, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest; • have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of that failure that is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments of our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general partnership requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the propane industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity capital or sell our assets. We may then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell our assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. A change of control could result in us facing substantial repayment obligations under our credit facility and our senior notes. Our bank credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes contain provisions relating to change of control of our managing general partner, our partnership and our operating company. If these provisions are triggered, our outstanding bank indebtedness may become due. In such an event, there is no assurance that we would be able to pay the indebtedness, in which case the lenders under our credit facility would have the right to foreclose on our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on us. There is no restriction on the ability of our general partners to enter into a transaction which would trigger the change of control provisions. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may reduce our operating flexibility. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes and agreements governing our revolving credit facilities and other future indebtedness contain or may contain various covenants limiting our ability and the ability of our specified subsidiaries to, among other things: • pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our equity interests or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; • make investments; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred securities; 21 Table of Contents • create or incur certain liens; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and • create non-guarantor subsidiaries. These restrictions could limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. Our bank credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. We may be unable to meet those ratios and conditions. Any future breach of these covenants and our failure to meet any of those ratios and conditions could result in a default under the terms of our bank credit agreement, which could result in the acceleration of our debt and other financial obligations. If we were unable to repay these amounts, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding or proceed against the collateral. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that could adversely affect our operating results to the extent not covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incident to handling, storing, transporting and providing customers with combustible products such as propane and natural gas. As a result, we have been, and likely will be, a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in such amounts and with such coverages and deductibles as we believe are reasonable and prudent. However, our insurance may not be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage. In addition, the occurrence of a serious accident, whether or not we are involved, may have an adverse effect on the public’s desire to use our products. Since we and Holdings announced on August 7, 2010, our entry into the original Merger Agreement, two unitholder class action lawsuits have been filed by Inergy unitholders against us, Inergy Holdings, Inergy GP, certain executive officers and certain members of the Inergy Holdings board of directors. The allegations and status of these lawsuits are more fully described under Part 1, Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits seek to have the Merger rescinded. The plaintiffs also seek damages and attorneys’ fees from all defendants. While we do not believe the lawsuits have merit and intend to defend the lawsuits vigorously, we cannot predict the outcome of the lawsuits, or other potential lawsuits related to the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve the lawsuits. An unfavorable resolution of any such litigation surrounding the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement could delay or prevent the consummation of such transactions. In addition, the cost to us of defending the litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation could also divert the attention of management and resources in general from day-to-day operations. Our operations are subject to compliance with environmental laws and regulations that can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations of federal, state and local authorities. Such environmental laws and regulations impose numerous obligations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and 22 Table of Contents restrictions on the generation, handling, treatment, storage, disposal and transportation of certain materials and wastes. Failure to comply with such environmental laws and regulations can result in the assessment of substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial liabilities and even the issuance of injunctions restricting or prohibiting our activities. Certain environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise released. In the course of our operations, materials or wastes may have been spilled or released from properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where these materials or wastes have been taken for disposal. In addition, many of the properties owned or leased by us were previously operated by third parties whose management, disposal or release of materials and wastes was not under our control. Accordingly, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up or remediating contamination arising out of our operations or as a result of activities by others who previously occupied or operated on properties now owned or leased by us. It is also possible that adoption of stricter environmental laws and regulations or more stringent interpretation of existing environmental laws and regulations in the future could result in additional costs or liabilities to us as well as the industry in general. Cost reimbursements due our managing general partner may be substantial and will reduce the cash available for principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness. We reimburse our managing general partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of our managing general partner, for all expenses they incur on our behalf. The reimbursement of expenses could adversely affect our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness. Our managing general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses. In addition, our managing general partner and its affiliates provide us with services for which we are charged reasonable fees as determined by our managing general partner in its sole discretion. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could cause us to incur additional expenditures of time and financial resources. We have completed the process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on our controls over financial reporting. If, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to incur substantial expenditures of management time and financial resources to identify and correct any such failure. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gasses” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our midstream services. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or “GHGs,” present an endangerment to public heath and the environment because emissions of such gasses are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA has adopted two sets of regulations under the Clean Air Act. The first limits emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles beginning with the 2012 model year. The EPA has asserted that these final motor vehicle GHG emission standards trigger Clean Air Act construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources, commencing when the motor vehicle standards take effect on January 2, 2011. On June 3, 2010, the EPA published its final rule to address the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V permitting programs. This rule “tailors” these permitting programs to apply to certain stationary 23 Table of Contents sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. It is widely expected that facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to reduce those emissions according to “best available control technology” standards for GHG that have yet to be developed. In addition, in April 2010, the EPA proposed to expand its existing GHG reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. If the proposed rule is finalized as proposed, reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities would be required on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and more than one-third of the states, including California, have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions such as electric power plants or major producers of fuels such as refineries or natural gas processing plants to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise limits emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report on GHG emissions or reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations, and such requirements also could adversely affect demand for our midstream services. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. Risks Related to Our Propane Operations Since weather conditions may adversely affect the demand for propane, our financial condition and results of operations are vulnerable to, and will be adversely affected by, warm winters. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for propane because many of our customers depend on propane principally for heating purposes. As a result, warm weather conditions will adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Actual weather conditions can substantially change from one year to the next. Furthermore, warmer than normal temperatures in one or more regions in which we operate can significantly decrease the total volume of propane we sell. Consequently, our operating results may vary significantly due to actual changes in temperature. During seven of the last ten fiscal years temperatures were significantly warmer than normal in our areas of operation (based on the 30-year average consisting of years 1976 through 2005 published by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration). We believe that our results of operations during these periods were adversely affected as a result of this warm weather. Sudden and sharp propane price increases that cannot be passed on to customers may adversely affect our profit margins. The propane industry is a “margin-based” business in which gross profits depend on the excess of sales prices over supply costs. As a result, our profitability is sensitive to changes in wholesale prices of propane caused by changes in supply or other market conditions. When there are sudden and sharp increases in the wholesale cost of propane, we may not be able to pass on these increases to our customers through retail or wholesale prices. Propane is a commodity and the price we pay for it can fluctuate significantly in response to changes in supply or other market conditions. We have no control over supply or market conditions. In addition, the timing of cost pass-throughs can significantly affect margins. Sudden and extended wholesale price increases could reduce our gross profits and could, if continued over an extended period of time, reduce demand by encouraging our retail customers to conserve or convert to alternative energy sources. 24 Table of Contents The highly competitive nature of the retail propane business could cause us to lose customers or affect our ability to acquire new customers, thereby reducing our revenues. We have competitors and potential competitors who are larger and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Also, because of relatively low barriers to entry into the retail propane business, numerous small retail propane distributors, as well as companies not engaged in retail propane distribution, may enter our markets and compete with us. Most of our propane retail branch locations compete with several marketers or distributors. The principal factors influencing competition with other retail marketers are: • price; • reliability and quality of service; • responsiveness to customer needs; • safety concerns; • long-standing customer relationships; • the inconvenience of switching tanks and suppliers; and • the lack of growth in the industry. We can make no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully on the basis of these factors. If a competitor attempts to increase market share by reducing prices, we may lose customers, which would reduce our revenues. If we are not able to purchase propane from our principal suppliers, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Most of our total volume purchases are made under supply contracts that have a term of one year, are subject to annual renewal, and provide various pricing formulas. Two of our suppliers, BP Amoco Corp. (17%) and Sunoco, Inc. (11%), accounted for 28% of propane purchases during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. In the event that we are unable to purchase propane from our significant suppliers, our failure to obtain alternate sources of supply at competitive prices and on a timely basis may hurt our ability to satisfy customer demand, reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. Competition from other energy sources may cause us to lose customers, thereby reducing our revenues. Competition from other energy sources, including natural gas and electricity, has been increasing as a result of reduced regulation of many utilities, including natural gas and electricity. Propane is generally not competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist because natural gas is a less expensive source of energy than propane. The gradual expansion of natural gas distribution systems and availability of natural gas in many areas that previously depended upon propane could cause us to lose customers, thereby reducing our revenues. Our business would be adversely affected if service at our principal storage facilities or on the common carrier pipelines we use is interrupted. Historically, a substantial portion of the propane purchased to support our operations has originated at Conway, Kansas, Hattiesburg, Mississippi and Mont Belvieu, Texas and has been shipped to us through major common carrier pipelines. Any significant interruption in the service at these storage facilities or on the common carrier pipelines we use would adversely affect our ability to obtain propane. 25 Table of Contents If we are not able to sell propane that we have purchased through wholesale supply agreements to either our own retail propane customers or to other retailers and wholesalers, the results of our operations would be adversely affected. We currently are party to propane supply contracts and expect to enter into additional propane supply contracts which require us to purchase substantially all the propane production from certain refineries. Our inability to sell the propane supply in our own propane distribution business, to other retail propane distributors or to other propane wholesalers would have a substantial adverse impact on our operating results and could adversely impact our capital liquidity. We are also a party to fixed price sale contracts with certain customers that are backed-up by propane supply contracts. If a significant number of our customers default under these fixed price contracts the results of our operations would be adversely affected. Energy efficiency and new technology may reduce the demand for propane and adversely affect our operating results. Increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, have adversely affected the demand for propane by retail customers. Future conservation measures or technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices might reduce demand for propane and adversely affect our operating results. Due to our limited asset diversification, adverse developments in our propane business could adversely affect our operating results and reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We rely substantially on the revenues generated from our propane business. Due to our limited asset diversification, an adverse development in this business would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. Risks Related to Our Midstream Operations Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Specifically, our natural gas storage facilities are subject to the regulation of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC. Under the NGA, FERC has authority to regulate our natural gas facilities that provide natural gas transportation services in interstate commerce, including storage services. FERC’s authority to regulate those services includes the rates charged for the services, terms and conditions of service, certification and construction of new facilities, the extension or abandonment of services and facilities, the maintenance of accounts and records, the acquisition and disposition of facilities, the initiation and discontinuation of services, relationships with affiliated entities and various other matters. Natural gas companies may not charge rates that, upon review by FERC, are found to be unjust and unreasonable or unduly discriminatory. In addition, FERC prohibits natural gas companies from unduly preferring or unreasonably discriminating against any person with respect to pipeline transportation rates or terms and conditions of service. The rates and terms and conditions for interstate services provided by the Steuben facility are found in the FERC-approved tariff of Steuben Gas Storage Company. The rates and terms and conditions for interstate services provided by Stagecoach are found in the FERC-approved tariff of CNYOG, our subsidiary and owner of the Stagecoach facility. The rates and terms and conditions for interstate services provided by the Thomas Corners facility are found in the FERC-approved tariff of ASC, our subsidiary and owner of the Thomas Corners facility. The rates and terms and conditions for interstate services provided by Tres Palacios are found in the FERC-approved rates of Tres Palacios Gas Storage, our subsidiary and owner of the Tres Palacios facility. Pursuant to the NGA, existing interstate transportation and storage rates may be challenged by complaint and are subject to prospective change by FERC. Additionally, rate increases proposed by the regulated pipeline or 26 Table of Contents storage provider may be challenged by protest and such increases may ultimately be rejected by FERC. We currently hold authority from FERC to charge and collect market-based rates for services provided at the Stagecoach facility, the Thomas Corners facility and the Tres Palacios facility. There can be no guarantee that we will be allowed to continue to operate under such a rate structure for the remainder of those facilities’ operating lives. Any successful complaint or protest against rates charged for our storage and related services, or our loss of market-based rate authority, could have an adverse impact on our revenues. In addition, our market-based rate authority would be subject to further review if we acquire transportation facilities or additional storage capacity, if we or one of our affiliates provides storage or transportation services in the same market area or acquires an interest in another storage field that can link our facilities to the market area or if we or one of our affiliates acquire an interest in or is acquired by an interstate pipeline. There can be no assurance that FERC will continue to pursue its approach of pro-competitive policies as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity, transportation and storage facilities. Any successful complaint or protest against our rates or loss of our market-based rate authority could have an adverse impact on our revenues associated with providing storage services. Failure to comply with applicable regulations under the NGA, Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 and certain other laws, and with implementing regulations associated with these laws, could result in the imposition of administrative and criminal remedies and civil penalties of up to $1,000,000 per day, per violation. Our storage business depends on neighboring pipelines to transport natural gas. Our Stagecoach natural gas storage business depends on Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company’s 300-Line and the Millennium Pipeline, currently the only pipelines to which it is interconnected, the Steuben natural gas storage facility depends on the Dominion Transmission System and the Thomas Corners natural gas storage facility depends on Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company’s 400-Line and the Millennium Pipeline. These pipelines are owned by parties not affiliated with us. Any interruption of service on the pipeline or lateral connections or adverse change in the terms and conditions of service could have a material adverse effect on our ability, and the ability of our customers, to transport natural gas to and from our facilities and have a corresponding material adverse effect on our storage revenues. In addition, the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from our facilities affect the utilization and value of our storage services. Significant changes in the rates charged by these pipelines or the rates charged by other pipelines with which the interconnected pipelines compete could also have a material adverse effect on our storage revenues. We expect to derive a significant portion of our revenues from our natural gas and LPG storage operations from a limited number of customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. We expect to derive a significant portion of our revenues and cash flow in connection with our natural gas and LPG storage operations from a limited number of customers. The loss, nonpayment, nonperformance or impaired creditworthiness of one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We compete with other natural gas storage companies and services that can substitute for storage services. Our principal competitors in our natural gas storage market include other storage providers including among others Dominion Resources, Inc., NiSource Inc. and El Paso Corporation. These major pipeline natural gas transmission companies have existing storage facilities connected to their systems that compete with certain of our facilities. FERC has adopted policy that favors authorization of new storage projects, and there are numerous natural gas storage options in the New York/Pennsylvania geographic market. Pending and future construction projects, if and when brought on line, may also compete with our natural gas storage operations. Such projects 27 Table of Contents may include FERC-certificated storage expansions and greenfield construction projects. We also compete with the numerous alternatives to storage available to customers, including pipeline balancing/no-notice services, seasonal/swing services provided by pipelines and marketers and on-system LNG facilities. Expanding our business by constructing new midstream assets subjects us to risks. One of the ways we have grown our business is through the expansion of our existing assets, such as the Thomas Corners development, the West Coast expansion project and the Finger Lakes LPG storage expansion project. The construction of additional storage facilities or new pipeline interconnects involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. When we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new midstream asset, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive material increases in revenues until the project is placed in service. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production and/or demand in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our expansion projects must receive certificate authority from FERC prior to construction, such as our currently proposed expansions of the Stagecoach natural gas storage facility (CNYOG’s North/South expansion project and Marc I hub line expansion project). We cannot guarantee such certificate authorization will be granted or, if granted, that such authorization will be free of burdensome or expensive conditions. We may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would reduce our revenues and limit our future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including competition from other pipelines and storage providers, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas in the markets we serve. The inability to renew or replace our current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could have a negative effect on our profitability. The fees charged by us to third parties under transmission, transportation and storage agreements may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs and the agreements may not be renewed or may be suspended in some circumstances. Our costs may increase at a rate greater than the rate that the fees we charge to third parties increase pursuant to our contracts with them. Furthermore, third parties may not renew their contracts with us. Additionally, some third parties’ obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of either natural gas are curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to) revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities or those of third parties. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs, if third parties do not renew or extend their contracts with us or if any third party suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our financial results would be negatively impacted. Our business would be adversely affected if operations at any of our facilities were interrupted. Our operations are dependent upon the infrastructure that we have developed, including, storage facilities and various means of transportation. Any significant interruption at these facilities or pipelines or our customers’ inability to transmit natural gas to or from these facilities or pipelines for any reason would adversely affect our results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Unitholders have less ability to elect or remove management than holders of common stock in a corporation. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, and therefore limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect, and do not have the right to elect, our managing general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our managing general partner is chosen by the sole member of our managing general partner, Inergy Holdings, L.P. John J. Sherman, who currently is the only voting member of the general partner of Inergy Holdings, effectively has the authority to appoint all of our directors. Although our managing general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage our partnership in a manner beneficial to Inergy, L.P. and our unitholders, the directors of our managing general partner also have a fiduciary duty to manage our managing general partner in a manner beneficial to its member, Inergy Holdings, L.P. If unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our managing general partner, they will have little ability to remove our managing general partner. Our managing general partner generally may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of 66 2/3% of the outstanding units voting together as a single class. Our unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by a provision in our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partners and their affiliates, cannot be voted on any matter. The control of our managing general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our managing general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the owner of our managing general partner, Inergy Holdings, L.P., from transferring its ownership interest in our managing general partner to a third party. The new owner of our managing general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our managing general partner with its own choices and to control the decisions taken by our board of directors and officers. Cost reimbursements due our managing general partner may be substantial and reduce our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. Before making any distributions on our units, we will reimburse our managing general partner for all expenses it has incurred on our behalf. In addition, our general partners and their affiliates may provide us with services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by our managing general partner. The reimbursement of these expenses and the payment of these fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to you. Our managing general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses and fees. We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute our unitholders’ existing ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank will have the following effects: • the proportionate ownership interest of our existing unitholders in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit or partnership security may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit will be diminished; and • the market price of the common units or partnership securities may decline. 29 Table of Contents Our managing general partner has conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary responsibilities, which may permit our managing general partner to favor its own interests to the detriment of unitholders. Inergy Holdings, L.P. owns and controls our managing general partner. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of relationships between Inergy Holdings, L.P., our general partners and their affiliates, on the one hand, and the partnership or any of the limited partners, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts our managing general partner may favor its own interests and those of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. The nature of these conflicts includes the following considerations: • Our managing general partner may limit its liability and reduce its fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to unitholders for actions that might, without the limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Unitholders are deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise be deemed a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. • Our managing general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties in addition to the partnership in resolving conflicts of interest, thereby limiting its fiduciary duties to our unitholders. • Our managing general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders. • Our managing general partner determines whether to issue additional units or other equity securities of the partnership. • Our managing general partner determines which costs are reimbursable by us. • Our managing general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it. • Our managing general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. • Our managing general partner is not restricted from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. • In some instances our managing general partner may borrow funds in order to permit the payment of distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions. The president and chief executive officer of our managing general partner effectively controls us through his control of the general partner of Inergy Holdings and our managing general partner. The president and chief executive officer of both the general partner of Inergy Holdings and our managing general partner has voting control of the general partner of Inergy Holdings. He therefore controls the general partner of Inergy Holdings and through it, our managing general partner and may be able to influence unitholder votes. Control over these entities gives our president and chief executive officer substantial control over our business and operations. Our cash distribution policy limits our ability to grow. Because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as rapid as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. If we issue additional units or incur debt to fund acquisitions and growth capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units or interest on that debt could increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. 30 Table of Contents Tax Risks to Common Unitholders The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships is subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we were to become subject to a material amount of state or local taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible under current law for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies requirements regarding the sources of its income. Based on our current operations we believe that we are treated as a partnership rather than a corporation; however, a change in our business could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. In addition, current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. For example, members of Congress have recently considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available to pay distributions would be reduced. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amount will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would be obligated to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, currently a maximum rate of 35%, as well as any applicable state income tax. Distributions to our unitholders generally would be taxed to them in the same manner as distributions from a corporation, and none of our income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by you and our managing general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You may be required to pay taxes even if you do not receive cash distributions from us. Because you will be treated as a partner in us for federal income tax purposes, we will allocate a share of our taxable income to you which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute to you, and you may be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. 31 Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between your amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our total net taxable income result in a reduction in your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation deductions. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U. S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the specific common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. To maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of our common units, we have adopted certain depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. These positions may result in an understatement of deductions and an overstatement of income to our unitholders. For example, we do not amortize certain goodwill assets, the value of which has been attributed to certain of our outstanding units. A subsequent holder of those units may be entitled to an amortization deduction attributable to that goodwill under Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b). But, because we cannot identify these units once they are traded by the initial holder, we do not allocate any subsequent holder of a unit any such amortization deduction. This approach may understate deductions available to those unitholders who own those units and may result in those unitholders reporting that they have a higher tax basis in their units than would be the case if the IRS strictly applied Treasury Regulations relating to these depreciation or amortization adjustments. This, in turn, may result in those unitholders reporting less gain or more loss on a sale of their units than would be the case if the IRS strictly applied those Treasury Regulations. The IRS may challenge the manner in which we calculate our unitholder’s basis adjustment under Section 743(b). If so, because the specific unitholders to which this issue relates cannot be identified, the IRS may assert adjustments to all unitholders selling units within the period under audit. A successful IRS challenge to this position or other positions we may take could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the gain from a unitholder’s sale of common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. Consequently, a successful IRS challenge could have a negative impact on the value of the common units. 32 Table of Contents We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, that unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. If you loan your units to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units, you may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, and you may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and you may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. During the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by you and any cash distributions you receive as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. To assure your status as a partner and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller you are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit your broker from borrowing your units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. A partnership is considered to terminate for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in its capital and profits within a twelve-month period. It is anticipated that the proposed merger of Inergy Holdings, L.P. (“Holdings”) through a number of steps with and into our wholly owned subsidiary (the “Transactions”) will result in an exchange of our partnership interests that, together with all other units sold or exchanged within the prior twelve-month period, will represent a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interest in our capital and profits. Consequently, we expect that we will be treated as having terminated, and as having been reconstituted, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes as a result of the Transactions. Although our constructive termination should not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, it will result in a deferral of certain deductions allowable in computing our taxable income for the year in which the termination occurs. The effect of this deferral of deductions on unitholders will depend upon each unitholder’s particular situation, including when, and at what prices, the unitholder purchased its common units and the ability of the unitholder to utilize any suspended passive losses. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes, estate, inheritance or intangible taxes and foreign taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and in which they do not reside. We own property and conduct business in various parts of the United States. Unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns in many or all of the jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is our unitholders’ responsibility to file all required U. S. federal, state, local and foreign tax returns. 33 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 