Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Inherent in Our Structure and Relationship with Inergy MidstreamOur primary cash-generating assets are our partnership interests, including incentive distribution rights, in Inergy Midstream, and our cash flow is therefore materially dependent upon the ability of Inergy Midstream to make distributions in respect to those partnership interests to its partners.The amount of cash that Inergy Midstream can distribute to its partners each quarter, including us, principally depends upon the amount of cash Inergy Midstream generates from its operations, which amounts of cash may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:•the rates Inergy Midstream charges for storage and transportation services and the amount of services their customers purchase from Inergy Midstream, which will be affected by, among other things, the overall balance between the supply of and demand for natural gas, governmental regulation of Inergy Midstream's rates and services, and Inergy Midstream's ability to obtain permits for growth projects;16Table of Contents•force majeure events that damage Inergy Midstream or third-party pipelines, facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties;•prevailing economic and market conditions;•governmental regulation, including changes in governmental regulation in our industry; •leaks or accidental releases of products or other materials into the environment, whether as a result of human error or otherwise; •difficulties in collecting receivables because of customers' credit or financial problems; and•changes in tax laws.In addition, the actual amount of cash Inergy Midstream will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including: the level and timing of capital expenditures it makes; the cost of acquisitions; its debt service requirements and other liabilities; fluctuations in its working capital needs; its ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; restrictions contained in its debt agreements; and the amount of cash reserves established by its general partner.We do not have control over many of these factors, including the level of cash reserves established by the board of directors and Inergy Midstream's general partner. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that Inergy Midstream will have sufficient available cash to pay a specific level of cash distributions to its partners.If Inergy Midstream reduced its per unit distribution, we would have less cash available for distribution and would probably be required to reduce our per unit distribution. Furthermore, the amount of cash that Inergy Midstream has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, Inergy Midstream may be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when Inergy Midstream records net income.To the extent we purchase additional units from Inergy Midstream, our rate of growth may be reduced.Our business strategy may include supporting the growth of Inergy Midstream by purchasing its securities or lending funds to Inergy Midstream to provide funding for acquisitions or internal growth projects. To the extent we purchase common units, the rate of our distribution growth may be reduced, at least in the short term, as less of our cash distributions will come from our ownership of Inergy Midstream's IDRs, which distributions increase at a faster rate than those of our other securities.We could have an indemnification obligation to Inergy Midstream, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition.We have entered into an omnibus agreement with Inergy Midstream and its general partner that governs certain aspects of our relationship with them. Pursuant to the omnibus agreement, we are generally obligated to indemnify Inergy Midstream and its affiliates against certain environmental liabilities and liabilities of the assets of the operations of Inergy Midstream prior to December 21, 2011. See “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions-Omnibus Agreement.” Our indemnification obligations under the omnibus agreement could result in substantial expenses and liabilities to Inergy Midstream, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. For example, we may be required to indemnify Inergy Midstream in connection with the Anadarko litigation. See “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.” Unitholders have less ability to elect or remove management than holders of common stock in a corporation.Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, and therefore limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect, and do not have the right to elect, our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the sole member of our general partner, Inergy Holdings, L.P. John J. Sherman, who currently is the only voting member of the general partner of Inergy Holdings, effectively has the authority to appoint all of our directors. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage our partnership in a manner beneficial to Inergy, L.P. and our unitholders, the directors of our general partner also have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its member, Inergy Holdings, L.P.If unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Our general partner generally may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of 66 2/3% of the outstanding units voting together as a single class.17Table of ContentsOur unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by a provision in our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partners and their affiliates, cannot be voted on any matter.The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the owner of our general partner, Inergy Holdings, L.P., from transferring its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices and to control the decisions taken by our board of directors and officers.Cost reimbursements due our general partner may be substantial and reduce our ability to pay the quarterly distribution.Before making any distributions on our units, we will reimburse our general partner for all expenses it has incurred on our behalf. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may provide us with services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by our general partner. The reimbursement of these expenses and the payment of these fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to you. Our general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses and fees.We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute our unitholders' existing ownership interests.We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank will have the following effects:•the proportionate ownership interest of our existing unitholders in us will decrease;•the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit or partnership security may decrease;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit will be diminished; and•the market price of the common units or partnership securities may decline.Future sales of the Inergy Midstream common units we own or other limited partner interests in the public market could reduce the market price of our unitholders' limited partner interests.As of September 30, 2012, we owned approximately 56.4 million common units of Inergy Midstream. If we were to sell and/or distribute our Inergy Midstream common units to the holders of our equity interests in the future, those holders may dispose of some or all of these units. The sale or disposition of a substantial portion of these units in the public markets could reduce the market price of Inergy Midstream's outstanding common units and our receipt of cash distributions.Inergy Midstream may issue additional common units, which may increase the risk that it will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level.The Inergy Midstream partnership agreement allows it to issue an unlimited number of additional limited partner interests. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities by Inergy Midstream will have the following effects: •Our unitholders' current proportionate ownership interest in Inergy Midstream will decrease; •the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit or partnership security may decrease; •the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; and •the market price of Inergy Midstream's common units may decline. The payment of distributions on any additional units issued by Inergy Midstream may increase the risk that Inergy Midstream may not have sufficient cash available to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to meet our obligations.18Table of ContentsIf we cease to manage and control Inergy Midstream in the future, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.If we cease to manage and control Inergy Midstream and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”) we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the Securities and Exchange Commission or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates.Moreover, treatment of us as an investment company would prevent our qualification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, in which case we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. For further discussion of the importance of our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and the implications that would result from our treatment as a corporation in any taxable year, please read the risk factor below entitled “The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships is subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes. If we or Inergy Midstream were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we or Inergy Midstream were to become subject to a material amount of state or local taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.In the event of a change of control, we may be obligated to transfer control of our general partner interest in Inergy Midstream to an affiliate. We and the general partner of Inergy Holdings (“Holdings GP”) have entered into an agreement under which Holdings GP will be required to purchase the entity that controls the general partner of Inergy Midstream in the event that (i) a change of control of our partnership occurs at a time when we are entitled to receive less than 50% of all cash distributed with respect to our limited partner interests and incentive distribution rights or (ii) through dilution or a distribution to our common unitholders of our interests in Inergy Midstream, we are entitled to receive less than 25% of all cash distributed with respect to our limited partner interests and incentive distribution rights. Please read “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions-NRGM GP, LLC Change of Control Event.”Although we control Inergy Midstream through our ownership of its general partner, Inergy Midstream's general partner owes fiduciary duties to Inergy Midstreams's unitholders, which may conflict with our interests.Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and Inergy Midstream and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of Inergy Midstream's general partner have fiduciary duties to manage Inergy Midstream in a manner beneficial to us. At the same time, the general partner has fiduciary duties to manage Inergy Midstream in a manner beneficial to Inergy Midstream and its limited partners. The board of directors of Inergy Midstream's general partner will resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest.For example, conflicts of interest with Inergy Midstream may arise in the following situations: •the allocation of shared overhead expenses to Inergy Midstream and us;•the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and Inergy Midstream, on the other hand;•the determination of the amount of cash to be distributed to Inergy Midstream's partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of Inergy Midstream's business;•the determination whether to make borrowings under Inergy Midstream's revolving credit facility to pay distributions to Inergy Midstream's partners; and•any decision we make in the future to engage in business activities independent of Inergy Midstream.The fiduciary duties of our general partner's officers and directors may conflict with those of Inergy Midstream's general partners.Conflicts of interest may arise because of the relationships among Inergy Midstream, its general partner and us. Our general partner's directors and officers have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders. Some of our general partner's directors and officers are also directors and officers of Inergy Midstream's general partner, and have fiduciary duties to manage the business of Inergy Midstream in a manner beneficial to Inergy Midstream and its unitholders. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders.19Table of ContentsAffiliates of our general partner are not prohibited from competing with us.Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership of interests in us. Except as provided in our partnership agreement, affiliates of our general partner are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us.Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner and its affiliates have limited fiduciary duties to us, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of us.Conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over our interests. These conflicts include, among others, the following: •Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, including Inergy Midstream and its affiliates and any general partner and limited partnerships acquired in the future, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duties to us. •Our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the terms of our partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing our units, unitholders consent to various actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law.•Our general partner determines the amount and timing of our investment transactions, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution.•Our general partner determines which costs it and its affiliates have incurred are reimbursable by us.•Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered, or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, so long as the terms of any such payments or additional contractual arrangements are fair and reasonable to us.•Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates.•Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to us and restricts the remedies available for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:•provides that our general partner is entitled to make other decisions in “good faith” if it reasonably believes that the decisions are in our best interests;•generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the Conflicts Committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and •provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence.20Table of ContentsOur general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price.If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 85% of our outstanding units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of September 30, 2012, the directors and executive officers of our general partner owned less than 1% of our common units.Our cash distribution policy limits our ability to grow.Because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as rapid as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. If we issue additional units or incur debt to fund acquisitions and growth capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units or interest on that debt could increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level.Risks Inherent in Our Business and Inergy Midstream's Business Unless otherwise indicated, the risk factors in this section apply to our operations and Inergy Midstream's operations.The supply and demand for natural gas could be adversely affected by many factors outside of our control which could negatively affect us. Our success depends on the supply and demand for natural gas. The degree to which our business is impacted by changes in supply or demand varies. Our business can be negatively impacted by sustained downturns in supply and demand for natural gas, including reductions in our ability to renew contracts on favorable terms and to construct new infrastructure. One of the major factors that will impact natural gas demand will be the potential growth of the demand for natural gas in the power generation market, particularly driven by the speed and level of existing coal-fired power generation that is replaced with natural gas-fired power generation. One of the major factors impacting natural gas supplies has been the significant growth in unconventional sources such as shale plays. In addition, the supply and demand for natural gas for our business will depend on many other factors outside of our control, which include, among others: •adverse changes in general global economic conditions. The level and speed of the recovery from the recent recession remains uncertain and could impact the supply and demand for natural gas and our future rate of growth in our business;•adverse changes in domestic regulations that could impact the supply or demand for natural gas;•technological advancements that may drive further increases in production and reduction in costs of developing natural gas shales;•competition from imported LNG and Canadian supplies and alternate fuels;•increased prices of natural gas or NGLs that could negatively impact demand for these products;•increased costs to explore for, develop, produce, gather, process and transport natural gas or NGLs;•adoption of various energy efficiency and conservation measures; and•perceptions of customers on the availability and price volatility of our services, particularly customers' perceptions on the volatility of natural gas prices over the longer-term.If volatility and seasonality in the natural gas industry decrease, because of increased production capacity or otherwise, the demand for our services and the prices that we will be able to charge for those services may decline. In addition to volatility and seasonality, an extended period of high natural gas prices would increase the cost of acquiring base gas and likely place upward pressure on the costs of associated expansion activities. An extended period of low natural gas prices could adversely impact storage values for some period of time until market conditions adjust. These commodity price impacts could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not complete growth projects or make acquisitions, our future growth may be limited. Our business strategy depends on Inergy Midstream's ability to grow cash available for distribution and our ability to grow our existing businesses. Inergy Midstream's business strategy depends on its ability to complete growth projects and make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash generated from operations on a per unit basis (i.e., complete accretive 21Table of Contentstransactions). We or Inergy Midstream may be unable to complete successful, accretive growth projects or acquisitions for any of the following reasons: •a failure to identify attractive expansion or development projects or acquisition candidates that satisfy acceptable economic and other criteria, or an inability to realize such opportunities as a result of being outbid by competitors;•a failure to raise financing for such projects or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms;•a failure to secure adequate customer commitments to use the facilities to be developed, expanded or acquired; or•a failure to obtain governmental approvals or other rights, licenses or consents needed to complete such projects or acquisitions. Our and Inergy Midstream's operations are subject to extensive regulation, and regulatory measures adopted by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our and Inergy Midstream's operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. For example, because we transport natural gas in interstate commerce and we store natural gas that is transported in interstate commerce, our natural gas storage and transportation facilities are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FERC under the Natural Gas Act. Federal regulation under the Natural Gas Act extends to such matters as: •rates, operating terms and conditions of service;•the form of tariffs governing service;•the types of services we may offer to our customers; •the certification and construction of new, or the expansion of existing, facilities;•the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities; •contracts for service between storage and transportation providers and their customers; •creditworthiness and credit support requirements; •the maintenance of accounts and records;•relationships among affiliated companies involved in certain aspects of the natural gas business;•the initiation and discontinuation of services; and •various other matters. Natural gas companies may not charge rates that, upon review by FERC, are found to be unjust and unreasonable or unduly discriminatory. Existing interstate transportation and storage rates may be challenged by complaint and are subject to prospective change by FERC. Additionally, rate increases proposed by a regulated pipeline or storage provider may be challenged and such increases may ultimately be rejected by FERC. We currently hold authority from FERC to charge and collect market-based rates for interstate storage services provided at our Tres Palacios facility. Inergy Midstream currently holds authority from FERC to charge and collect (i) market-based rates for interstate storage services provided at the Stagecoach, Thomas Corners and Seneca Lake facilities and (ii) negotiated rates for interstate transportation services provided over the North-South Facilities and the MARC I Pipeline. FERC's “market-based rate” policy allows regulated entities to charge rates different from, and in some cases, less than, those which would be permitted under traditional cost-of-service regulation. Among the sorts of changes in circumstances that could raise market power concerns would be an expansion of capacity, acquisitions or other changes in market dynamics. There can be no guarantee that we will be allowed to continue to operate under such rate structures for the remainder of those assets' operating lives. Any successful challenge against rates charged for our storage and transportation services, or our loss of market-based rate authority or negotiated rate authority, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Our market-based rate authority for our natural gas storage facilities may be subject to review and possible revocation if FERC determines that we have the ability to exercise market power in our market area. If we were to lose our ability to charge market-based rates, we would be required to file rates based on our cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return. Cost-of-service rates may be lower than our current market-based rates. There can be no assurance that FERC will continue to pursue its approach of pro-competitive policies as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity and transportation and storage facilities. Failure to comply with applicable regulations under the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, the Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 and certain other laws, and with implementing regulations associated with these laws, could result in the imposition of administrative and criminal remedies and civil penalties of up to $1,000,000 per day, per violation. 22Table of ContentsWe may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts. Our primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time our existing contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation and renewal. As of September 30, 2012, the weighted average remaining tenor of our and Inergy Midstream's existing portfolio of firm storage contracts are approximately 1.2 and 3.4 years, respectively. Customer contracts for 11 Bcf of natural gas firm storage service will expire at our Tres Palacios facility in fiscal 2013, and customer contracts for 5.2 Bcf of natural gas firm storage service will expire at Inergy Midstream's facilities in fiscal 2013. The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including: •the macroeconomic factors affecting natural gas and NGL storage economics for our current and potential customers;•the level of existing and new competition to provide services to our markets;•the balance of supply and demand, on a short-term, seasonal and long-term basis, in our markets;•the extent to which the customers in our markets are willing to contract on a long-term basis; and•the effects of federal, state or local regulations on the contracting practices of our customers.Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of our existing contracts, or extending or replacing them at unfavorable or lower rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. We depend on third-party pipelines connected to our storage facilities and pipelines, and we could be negatively impacted by circumstances beyond our control that temporarily or permanently interrupt the operation of such third-party pipelines. We depend on the continued operation of third-party pipelines that provide delivery options to and from our storage facilities, and to which our transportation pipelines are connected. For example, Inergy Midstream's Stagecoach facility depends on TGP's 300 Line and Millennium, currently the only interstate pipelines to which it is directly interconnected. These pipelines are owned by parties not affiliated with us. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline or other interconnect point with our storage facilities that causes a material reduction in the volume of storage or transportation services provided by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. In addition, the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from our facilities and pipelines affect the utilization and value of our services. Significant changes in the rates charged by these pipelines or the rates charged by other pipelines with which the interconnected pipelines compete could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Expanding our business by developing new midstream assets subjects us to risks. Our growth projects are an integral part of our business strategy. The development and construction of storage facilities, pipelines, and truck/rail terminals involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. When we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new midstream asset, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive material increases in revenues until the project is placed in service. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production and/or demand in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Certain of our growth projects must receive regulatory approval from federal and state authorities prior to construction, such as Inergy Midstream's Watkins Glen NGL storage development project. The approval process for storage and transportation projects has become increasingly challenging. We cannot guarantee such authorization will be granted or, if granted, that such authorization will be free of burdensome or expensive conditions. 23Table of ContentsAcquisitions or growth projects that we complete may not perform as anticipated and could result in a reduction of our cash available for distribution. Even if we complete projects or acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, such projects or acquisitions may nevertheless reduce our cash available for distribution due to the following factors: •mistaken assumptions about storage capacity, deliverability, base gas needs, geological integrity, revenues, synergies, costs (including operating and administrative, capital, debt and equity costs), customer demand, growth potential, assumed liabilities and other factors;•the failure to receive cash flows from an growth project or newly acquired asset due to delays in the commencement of operations for any reason;•unforeseen operational issues or the realization of liabilities that were not known to us at the time the acquisition or growth project was completed; •the inability to attract new customers or retain acquired customers to the extent assumed in connection with the acquisition or growth project; •the failure to successfully integrate growth projects or acquired assets or businesses into our operations and/or the loss of key employees; or •the impact of regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties that are beyond our control. If we complete future growth projects or acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. If any growth projects or acquisitions we ultimately complete are not accretive to our cash available for distribution, our ability to make distributions may be reduced. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms to fund expansions of our asset base, our ability to pay cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. In order to expand our asset base, we will need to make expansion capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and may be unable to raise the level of our cash distributions. To fund our expansion capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations or incur borrowings or sell additional common units or other limited partner interests. Such uses of cash from operations will reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our common unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant common unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. Increased competition could have a negative impact on the demand for our services, which could adversely affect our financial results. We compete primarily with other providers of storage and transportation services that own or operate natural gas and NGL storage facilities and natural gas pipelines. Such competitors include independent storage developers and operators, LDCs, interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission companies with storage facilities connected to their pipelines, and other midstream companies. Some of our competitors have greater financial, managerial and other resources than we do and control substantially more storage and transportation capacity than we do. In addition, our customers may develop their own storage and transportation assets in lieu of using ours. FERC has adopted a policy that favors authorization of new storage projects, and there are numerous natural gas storage options in the geographic markets we serve. Pending and future construction projects, if and when brought on-line, may also compete with our natural gas storage operations. Such projects may include FERC-certificated storage expansions and greenfield construction projects. We also compete with the numerous alternatives to storage available to customers, including pipeline balancing/no-notice services, seasonal/swing services provided by pipelines and marketers and on-system LNG facilities. Natural gas as a fuel also competes with other forms of energy available to end-users, including electricity, coal and liquid fuels. Increased demand for such forms of energy at the expense of natural gas could lead to a reduction in demand for natural gas storage and transportation services. 24Table of ContentsIf our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the prices at which they offer their services, we may be unable to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or construct new storage or transportation assets that would create additional competition for us. The expansion of storage or transportation assets and construction activities of our competitors could result in storage or transportation capacity in excess of actual demand, which could reduce the demand for our services, and potentially reduce the rates that we receive for our services. All of these competitive pressures could make it more difficult for us to retain our existing customers and/or attract new customers as we seek to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. In addition, competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that decrease demand for natural gas and NGL storage and transportation in our markets, such as adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. Inergy Midstream expects to derive a significant portion of its revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. Inergy Midstream expects to derive a significant portion of its revenues and cash flow from a limited number of customers. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, ConEd accounted for approximately 14% of Inergy Midstream's total revenue. The loss, nonpayment, nonperformance or impaired creditworthiness of one of Inergy Midstream's large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers in the ordinary course of our business. We extend credit to our customers as a normal part of our business. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of loss resulting from the nonpayment and/or nonperformance of our customers. While we have established credit policies that include assessing the creditworthiness of our customers as permitted by our FERC-approved gas tariffs and requiring appropriate terms or credit support from them based on the results of such assessments, there can be no assurance that we have adequately assessed the creditworthiness of our existing or future customers or that there will not be unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness. Resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Additionally, in instances where we loan natural gas to third parties, the magnitude of our credit risk is significantly increased, as the failure of the third party to return the loaned volumes would result in losses equal to the full value of the loaned natural gas rather than, in the case of firm storage or hub services contracts, losses equal to fees on volumes nominated for injection or withdrawal. The fees charged by us to third parties under storage and transportation agreements may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs, and those agreements may be suspended in some circumstances. Our costs may increase at a rate greater than the rate that the fees we charge to third parties increase pursuant to our contracts with them. In addition, some third parties' obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of natural gas is curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to) revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities or those of third parties. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs or if any third party suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions could be materially adversely affected. Our business involves many hazards and risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the natural gas and NGL storage and transportation businesses, including:•subsidence of the geological structures where we store natural gas and NGLs; •risks and hazards inherent in drilling operations associated with the development of new caverns; •problems maintaining the wellbores and related equipment and facilities that form a part of the infrastructure that is critical to the operation of our storage facilities; 25Table of Contents•damage to our facilities and properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, acts of terrorism, third parties, equipment or material failures, pipeline or vessel ruptures or corrosion, explosions and other incidents;•leaks, migrations or losses of natural gas and NGLs; •collapse of storage caverns;•operator error;•environmental hazards, such as NGL or condensate spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, drinking water contamination associated with our raw water or water disposal wells, and discharges of toxic gases, fluids or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;•failure to comply with environmental or pipeline safety regulatory requirements; and•other industry hazards that could result in the suspension of operations. These risks could result in substantial losses due to breaches of contractual commitments, personal injury and/or loss of life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business. In addition, we are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to our indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities.As a result of these risks and hazards, we have been, and will likely be, a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in such amounts and with such coverages and deductibles as we believe are reasonable and prudent. However, our insurance may not be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage. In addition, we share insurance coverage with Inergy, for which we reimburse Inergy pursuant to the terms of the omnibus agreement. To the extent Inergy experiences covered losses under the insurance policies, the limit of our coverage for potential losses may be decreased. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. We have a $550 million credit facility with a maturity date in July 2016 and Inergy Midstream has a $600 million credit facility (expandable up to $750 million) with a maturity date in December 2016. Both credit facilities are available to fund working capital and growth projects, make acquisitions and for general partnership purposes. Our and Inergy Midstream's credit facilities contain various covenants and restrictive provisions that will limit our and Inergy Midstream's ability to, among other things: •incur additional debt;•make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units;•make certain investments and acquisitions; •incur or permit certain liens to exist; •enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;•merge, consolidate or amalgamate with another company; and •transfer or otherwise dispose of assets. Furthermore, our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. For example, our credit facility requires maintenance of a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) of not more than 4.75 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) of not less than 2.5 to 1.00. Inergy Midstream's revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring it to maintain certain financial ratios. For example, Inergy Midstream's revolving credit facility requires maintenance of a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in its credit agreement) of not more than 5.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio (as defined in its credit agreement) of not less than 2.50 to 1.00. 26Table of ContentsBorrowings under our credit facility are secured by (i) pledges of the equity interests of, and guarantees by, substantially all of our existing and future domestic wholly-owned subsidiaries, and (ii) liens on substantially all of our real and personal property. Borrowings under Inergy Midstream's revolving credit facility are secured by (i) pledges of the equity interests of, and guarantees by, substantially all of its existing and future subsidiaries, and (ii) liens on substantially all of its real and personal property. The provisions of each company's credit facility may affect its ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and each company's flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of a credit facility could result in an event of default, which could enable the lenders, subject to applicable notice and cure provisions, to declare any outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of any such debt of our's is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our common units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. If the payment of any such debt of Inergy Midstream is accelerated, its assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of Inergy Midstream's common units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following:•our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to common unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; •we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and•our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. An unfavorable resolution of the Anadarko litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. In June 2010, Inergy Midstream's predecessor, Inergy Midstream, LLC (“NRGM Predecessor”), and CNYOG entered into a letter of intent with Anadarko Petroleum Corporation ("Anadarko") which contemplated that, subject to certain conditions, Anadarko may exercise an option to acquire up to a 25% ownership interest in the MARC I Pipeline. On September 23, 2011, Anadarko filed a complaint against NRGM Predecessor and CNYOG in the Court of Common Pleas in Lycoming County, Pennsylvania (Cause No. 11-01697) alleging that (i) Anadarko had an option to acquire, and timely exercised its option to acquire, a 25% ownership interest in the MARC I Pipeline, (ii) NRGM Predecessor refused to enter into definitive agreements under which Anadarko would acquire a 25% interest in the pipeline and, by doing so, NRGM Predecessor breached the letter of intent, and (iii) by refusing to enter into definitive agreements, NRGM Predecessor breached a duty of good faith and fair dealing in connection with the letter of intent. Based on these allegations, Anadarko seeks various remedies, including specific performance of the letter of intent and monetary damages. Inergy Midstream filed its answer to Anadarko's complaint in January 2012, and discovery is continuing. An unfavorable resolution of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. In addition, such litigation could divert the attention of management and resources in general from day-to-day operations. For further information regarding this lawsuit, please see “Item 3 -Legal Proceedings” of this Part I.Our operations are subject to compliance with environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing occupational health and safety aspects of our operations, the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Such laws and regulations impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to comply with applicable legal requirements, the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protections and the imposition of 27Table of Contentsrestrictions on the generation, handling, treatment, storage, disposal and transportation of materials and wastes. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations can result in the assessment of substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial liabilities and the issuance of injunctions restricting or prohibiting some or all of our activities. Certain environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where materials or wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. In the course of our operations, generated materials or wastes may have been spilled or released from properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where these materials or wastes have been taken for recycling or disposal. It is also possible that adoption of stricter environmental laws and regulations or more stringent interpretation of existing environmental laws and regulations in the future could result in additional costs or liabilities to us as well as the industry in general or otherwise adversely affect demand for our services and salt products. It is also possible that adoption of stricter environmental laws and regulations or more stringent interpretation of existing environmental laws and regulations in the future could result in additional costs or liabilities to us or our customers and also adversely affect demand for the natural gas, NGLs or salt products. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our services. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, has already adopted rules regulating GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, including one that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and another that regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources, which could require greenhouse emission controls for those sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities on an annual basis. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas that is produced, which may decrease demand for our storage services. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact demand for our storage capacity, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. There is a financing cost for our customers to store natural gas or NGLs in our storage facilities. That financing cost is impacted by the cost of capital or interest rate incurred by the customer in addition to the commodity cost of the natural gas or NGLs in inventory. Absent other factors, a higher financing cost adversely impacts the economics of storing natural gas or NGLs for future sale. As a result, a significant increase in interest rates could adversely affect the demand for our storage capacity independent of other market factors. In addition, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our common unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and our implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our common unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.28Table of ContentsIf Inergy Midstream is unable to diversify its assets and geographic locations, its ability to make distributions to Inergy Midstream's common unitholders could be adversely affected. Inergy Midstream relies on revenues generated from storage and transportation assets that it owns, which are located exclusively in the Northeast region of the United States. Due to its lack of diversification in asset location and the storage-heavy nature of its existing asset base, an adverse development in these businesses or areas, including adverse developments due to catastrophic events, weather and decreases in demand for natural gas, could have a significantly greater impact on Inergy Midstream's results of operations and cash available for distribution to its common unitholders than if Inergy Midstream maintained more diverse assets and locations. Inergy Midstream's growth strategy includes acquiring entities with lines of business that are distinct and separate from its existing operations, which could subject Inergy Midstream to additional business and operating risks.Consistent with its announced growth strategy and pending acquisition of Rangeland Energy, Inergy Midstream may acquire assets that have operations in new and distinct lines of business from its existing operations. Integration of new business segments is a complex, costly and time-consuming process and may involve assets in which Inergy Midstream has limited operating experience. Failure to timely and successfully integrate acquired entities' new lines of business with its existing operations may have a material adverse effect on Inergy Midstream's business, financial condition or results of operations. The difficulties of integrating new business segments with existing operations include, among other things:•operating distinct business segments that require different operating strategies and different managerial expertise;•the necessity of coordinating organizations, systems and facilities in different locations;•integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; and•consolidating corporate and administrative functions.In addition, the diversion of Inergy Midstream's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the new business segments, such as unanticipated liabilities or costs, could harm Inergy Midstream's existing business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Furthermore, new lines of business will subject Inergy Midstream to additional business and operating risks, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.Inergy Midstream may be unable to successfully integrate its acquisitions.One of Inergy Midstream's primary business strategies is to grow through acquisitions. There is no assurance that Inergy Midstream will successfully integrate acquisitions into our operations, or that Inergy Midstream will achieve the desired profitability from its acquisitions. Failure to successfully integrate these substantial acquisitions could adversely affect Inergy Midstream's operations. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: (i) operating a significantly larger organization; (ii) coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; (iii) integrating personnel from diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; (iv) consolidating corporate, technological and administrative functions; (v) integrating internal controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters; (vi) the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; (vii) customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; and (viii) potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. In addition, Inergy Midstream may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, such as cost-savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher costs, unknown liabilities and fluctuations in markets.If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units. We are subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as Section 404. For example, Section 404 requires us, among other things, to annually review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to develop, implement or maintain effective internal controls or to improve our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm's, conclusions about the effectiveness of 29Table of Contentsour internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units.A change of control could result in us facing substantial repayment obligations under our credit facility. Our credit agreement contains provisions relating to change of control of our general partner and our partnership. If these provisions are triggered, our outstanding bank indebtedness may become due. In such an event, there is no assurance that we would be able to pay the indebtedness, in which case the lenders under our credit facility would have the right to foreclose on our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on us. There is no restriction on the ability of our general partners to enter into a transaction which would trigger the change of control provisions.If we are not able to sell propane that we have purchased through wholesale supply agreements to retailers and other wholesalers, the results of our operations would be adversely affected.We currently are party to propane supply contracts and may enter into additional propane supply contracts which require us to purchase substantially all the propane production from certain refineries. Our inability to sell the propane supply to retail propane distributors or to other propane wholesalers would have a substantial adverse impact on our operating results and could adversely impact our capital liquidity. Our agreement with SPH exposes us to potentially significant indemnification obligations.We have certain indemnification obligations to SPH pursuant to the agreement entered into in connection with our contribution to SPH of Inergy Propane (the “Contribution Agreement”). Under the Contribution Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify SPH for any damages arising out of any breach of our representations and warranties, our failure to perform any of our covenants or agreements, certain tax matters and certain retained liabilities. In general, our indemnification obligations are limited by an indemnification deductible of $15 million and indemnification ceiling of $150 million; provided, however, that our indemnification obligations for breach of certain fundamental representations and warranties, certain tax matters and certain retained liabilities are not subject to such limitations. In the event that SPH brings a claim for indemnification, we may be obligated to make significant payments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions.Tax Risks to Common Unitholders The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships is subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we or Inergy Midstream were to become subject to a material amount of state or local taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The value of our investments in Inergy Midstream depends largely on Inergy Midstream being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership such as us or Inergy Midstream may be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies requirements regarding the sources of its income. Based on our current operations we believe that we and Inergy Midstream are each treated as a partnership rather than a corporation; however, a change in either of our businesses could cause either of us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes.If we or Inergy Midstream were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we each would be obligated to pay federal income tax on our respective taxable income at the corporate tax rate, currently a maximum rate of 35%, as well as any applicable state income tax. Distributions to our and Inergy Midstream's unitholders generally would be taxedin the same manner as distributions from a corporation, and none of our or Inergy Midstream's income, gain, loss, deduction or credit from us or Inergy Midstream would flow through to our respective unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us or Inergy Midstream as a corporation, our respective cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our respective unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.30Table of ContentsThe tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in Inergy Midstream's or our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including Inergy Midstream and us, or an investment in Inergy Midstream's or our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Currently, one such legislative proposal would eliminate the qualifying income exception upon which we and Inergy Midstream rely on for our treatment as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in Inergy Midstream's or our common units. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the expectation for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes.If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you.Neither we nor Inergy Midstream has requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by you and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.You will be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive cash distributions from us.Because you will be treated as a partner in us for federal income tax purposes, we will allocate a share of our taxable income to you which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute to you, and you may be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between your amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our total net taxable income result in a reduction in your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation deductions. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale.Tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U. S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax adviser before investing in our common units.31Table of ContentsWe and Inergy Midstream will treat each purchaser of our respective units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of Inergy Midstream's and our common units.Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of units, we and Inergy Midstream will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of Inergy Midstream's common units and our common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our respective common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns.We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. However, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based upon the date the underlying property is placed in service. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units) may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.Because there is no tax concept of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes.We will be considered to have terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange within a twelve-month period of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders which could result in us filing two tax returns (and unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1s) for one calendar year. Our termination could also result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in its taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Pursuant to an IRS relief procedure a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated may request special relief which, if granted by the IRS, among other things, would permit the partnership to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the termination occurs.32Table of ContentsOur unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes, estate, inheritance or intangible taxes and foreign taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and in which they do not reside. We own property and conduct business in various parts of the United States. Unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns in many or all of the jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is our unitholders' responsibility to file all required U. S. federal, state, local and foreign tax returns.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.