Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We have limited operating history as an exchange and as a traditional wholesaler of telecommunications traffic, and experience risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets which if not overcome, could be materially harmful to our business. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. In order to overcome these risks and difficulties, we must, among other things; • generate sufficient usage of the Exchange by the Members; • maintain and attract a sufficient number of Members to the Exchange to sustain profitability; • execute our business strategy successfully, including successful execution of our Internet Exchange business; • manage our expanding operations; • upgrade our technology, systems and network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic and transaction volume and to implement new features and functions; and • achieve adoption by having customers and potential customers use our new products and services. Our failure to overcome these risks and difficulties, and the general risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets, could impair our ability to expand our business, continue our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We have incurred a cumulative loss since inception and if we do not maintain or generate significant revenues, we may not return to profitability. At December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $120.5 million. We incurred a net loss of $8.7 million, $14.9 million, $6.9 million, and $0.4 million for the years ended 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We had net income of $9.7 million in 2005. Even though we have taken steps to reduce our cost structure, we expect to incur significant future expenses, particularly with respect to the development of new products and services, deployment of additional infrastructure, and expansion in strategic global markets. To return to profitability, we must continue to increase the usage of the Exchange by the Members and Carrier Services customers and attract new customers in order to improve the liquidity of the Exchange as well as continue to closely manage our expenses. We must also deliver superior service to the Members, mitigate the credit risks of our business, and develop and commercialize new products and services. We may not succeed in these activities and may never generate revenues that are significant or large enough to return to profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. A large portion of our revenues is derived from the Members on a per-minute and per-megabyte basis. Therefore, a general market decline in the price for voice calls and Internet capacity may adversely affect the fees we charge the Members. Our failure to return to profitability would depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to expand our business, diversify our product and service offerings or continue our operations. The Members may not trade on the Exchange or utilize our other services due to, among other things, the lack of a liquid market, which may materially harm our business. Volatility in trading volumes may have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Traditionally, communication services providers buy and sell network capacity in a direct, one-to-one process. The Members may not trade on the Exchange unless it provides them with an active and liquid market. Liquidity depends on, among other things, the number of buyers and sellers and the number of competitively priced routes that actively trade on a particular communications route. Our ability to increase the 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS number of buyers that actively trade on the Exchange will depend on, among other things, the willingness and ability of prospective sellers to satisfy the quality criteria imposed by prospective buyers and, upon the increased participation of competing sellers from which a buyer can choose in order to obtain favorable pricing, achieve cost savings and consistently gain access to the required quality services. Our ability to increase the number of sellers that actively trade on the Exchange will depend upon the extent to which there are sufficient numbers of prospective buyers available to increase the likelihood that sellers will generate meaningful sales revenues. Alternatively, the Members may not trade on the Exchange if they are not able to realize significant cost savings. This may also result in a decline in trading volume and liquidity of the Exchange. Trading volume is additionally impacted by the mix of hundreds of geographic markets traded on the Exchange. Each market has distinct characteristics, such as price and average call duration. Declines in the trading volume on the Exchange would result in lower revenues to us and would adversely affect our profitability because of our predominantly fixed cost structure. The Members may not trade on the Exchange because such Members may conclude that the Exchange will replace their existing business at lower margins. If the Exchange continues to be an active, liquid market in which lower-priced alternatives are available to buyers, sellers may conclude that further development of the Exchange will erode their profits and they may stop offering communications capacity on the Exchange. Since the Exchange provides full disclosure of prices offered by participating sellers, buyers may choose to purchase network capacity through the Exchange instead of sending traffic to their existing suppliers at pre-determined, and often higher, contract prices. If suppliers of communications capacity fear or determine that the price disclosure and spot market limit order mechanisms provided by the Exchange will “cannibalize” the greater profit-generating potential of their existing business, they may choose to withdraw from the Exchange, which ultimately could cause the Exchange to fail and materially harm our business. Our effort to increase the traffic quality of calls on the Exchange could adversely affect our business prospects or results of operations. In the second half 2008, we began implementing measures to increase the traffic quality and average duration of calls on the Exchange. These measures included eliminating and streamlining many of the routes offered on the Exchange, resulting in a decline of the number of minutes bought and sold and a decline in our revenues. Although we completed this process in the fourth quarter 2008 and we believe that the decision to streamline some of our routes being offered will positively influence our business in the long term, we cannot be certain that the volume of minutes bought and sold on the Exchange will increase or return to previous levels, or that we will be able to reestablish the routes eliminated in this effort. We further cannot be certain that the increase in traffic quality will result in our revenues increasing or returning to previous levels. A failure to return to previous volumes or revenue levels could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our Carrier Services strategy may adversely affect the activity of Members on the Exchange. We have traditionally operated as a neutral, anonymous Exchange. We established Carrier Services to improve our product and service offerings, improve efficiencies and simplify our customers’ experiences. However, some of the Members may view our development of a carrier strategy as competitive to their businesses and may limit or eliminate their activity on the Exchange. Any such reduction could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may not achieve profitability if we price inappropriately or fail to manage supply in Carrier Services. We offer our Carrier Services at a price that is fixed for a specified period of time. In order to achieve profitability, we have to procure that supply below the offered price. Failure to recognize rising suppliers’ prices, or less expensive carriers not terminating the traffic as expected, could result in a significant loss to us. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may incur losses on customer calls that do not match the expected distribution of calls to the offered destination in Carrier Services. The trading Exchange operates using our defined codes so that the buyer is committed to pay the price for those codes and the seller is committing to offer termination using those codes. In the Carrier Services offering, we may compile a destination using multiple suppliers, each with their own prices for regions in that destination. However, portability of numbers between carriers at that destination may alter the price for termination. We are then offering to provide termination to the broader destination to our customers on the assumption that a certain blend of calling will be achieved. If the customer sends a blend of calls that is substantially different from what is expected and all of those calls are to the more expensive parts of a destination, we may receive invoices that are significantly greater than expected and may limit our ability to complete a sale to the buyer that is profitable for us. Our standard Member enrollment cycle can be long and uncertain and may not result in revenues. The Member enrollment cycle for full membership on the Exchange can be long, and may take up to 12 months or even longer from our initial contact with a communication services provider until that provider signs the membership agreement. Because we offer a new method of purchasing and selling international long distance voice calls and Internet capacity, we must invest a substantial amount of time and resources to educate prospective Members on services providers regarding the benefits of the Exchange. Factors that contribute to the length and uncertainty of the Member enrollment cycle and which may reduce the likelihood that a Member will purchase or sell communications traffic through the Exchange include: • the strength of pre-existing one-to-one relationships that prospective Members may already have with their communication services providers; • existing incentive structures within the Members’ organizations that do not reward decision-makers for savings achieved through cost-cutting; • the experience of the trial trading process by prospective Members; • an aversion to new methods for buying and selling communications capacity; and • the effect of the ongoing global financial and credit crisis on prospective Members’ credit, spending and cash flow. We may require substantial additional capital to execute our business plan and, if additional capital is not available, we may need to limit, scale back or cease our operations. We expect to meet our cash requirements for the next 12 months through a combination of cash flow from operations, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. If our cash requirements vary materially from those currently planned, or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from our business, we may be required to borrow additional amounts under our existing credit facilities or seek additional financing sooner than anticipated. Our current credit facility with SVB, expires on November 26, 2010. Even though we expect to extend the expiration date on this facility, we may default under this facility or may not be able to renew this credit facility upon expiration or on acceptable terms. In addition, we may seek additional funding in the future through public or private equity and debt financings. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, business prospects, products or services, which we would otherwise pursue on our own. Additional funds may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, particularly in light of the current significant deterioration in general economic conditions and tightening of credit availability. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis or favorable terms, we may not be able to execute our business plan. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected and we may be required to significantly reduce or cease our operations. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our settlement procedures subject us to financial risk on all receivables not accepted by GMAC Commercial Finance LLC (GMAC), Silicon Valley Bank (SVB), and Euler Hermes ACI (Euler) under our credit arrangements or not covered by our other methods of managing our credit risk. In addition, we may elect to forego potential revenues to avoid certain credit risks, which could materially affect our results of operations. We have established credit risk assessment and credit underwriting services with each of GMAC, SVB and Euler, which protect us from credit losses in the event of nonpayment due to bankruptcy. We are subject to financial risk for any nonpayment by the buyers for receivables that GMAC, SVB and/or Euler do not accept. We seek to mitigate this risk by evaluating the creditworthiness of each buyer prior to its joining the Exchange, as well as requiring deposits, letters of credit or prepayments from some buyers. We also manage our credit risk by reducing the amount owed to us by our buying Members by netting the buy amount and the sell amount for each Member on the Exchange. In 2009, approximately 72% of our trading revenues were covered by our third party credit agreements, our ability to net receipts and payments, and our collection from customers of prepayments, or other cash collateral, of which our third party credit underwriters covered 28%. However, our credit evaluations cannot fully determine whether buyers can or will pay us for capacity they purchase through the Exchange. In the future, we may elect to increase the amount of credit we extend to our customers we deem creditworthy in order to reduce our credit underwriting costs. Similarly, current economic conditions may adversely impact GMAC, SVB or Euler resulting in the inability of such entities to pay us when they are obligated to do so or at any time. If buyers fail to pay us for any reason and we have not been able or have elected not to secure credit risk protection with respect to these buyers, our business could experience a material adverse effect. In the event that the creditworthiness of our buyers deteriorates, our credit providers and we may elect not to extend credit and consequently, we may forego potential revenues which could materially affect our results of operations. We are exposed to the credit risk of the Members not covered by our credit management programs with third parties, which could result in material losses to us. There have been adverse changes in the public and private equity and debt markets for communication services providers that have affected their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures. In some cases, the significant debt burden carried by certain communication services providers has adversely affected their ability to pay their outstanding balances with us and some of the Members have filed for bankruptcy as a result of their debt burdens. Although these Members may emerge from bankruptcy proceedings in the future, unsecured creditors such as us, often receive partial or no payment toward outstanding obligations. Furthermore, because we are an international business, we may be subject to the bankruptcy laws of other nations, which may provide us limited or no relief. Although these losses have not been significant to date, future losses, if incurred, could be significant, particularly as a result of the impact of current adverse economic conditions and the tightening of credit availability on customers, and could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to effectively manage the pricing risk, which could result in significant losses to us. In certain instances, we offer our customers a fixed rate for specific markets for a set duration. We may assume the risk on the price of the minutes and we may not be able to secure the prices from sellers to ensure we do not lose money on the minutes purchased by the buyers. We could incur significant losses related to having a higher cost of minutes sold in relation to the price offered to the buyer of this service. If we are not able to retain our current senior management team or attract and retain qualified technical and business personnel, our business will suffer. We are dependent on our senior management team, in particular, Shawn F. O’Donnell, our President and Chief Executive Officer, for our business success. Our employment arrangements with Mr. O’Donnell and our other executive officers are terminable on short notice or no notice. We do not carry key man life insurance on the lives of any of our key personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers would result in a significant loss in the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess and could significantly affect our current and future growth. In addition, our growth may require us to hire a significant number of qualified technical and customer-facing personnel. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the successful operation and growth of our business. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS The market for our services is competitive and if we are unable to compete effectively, our financial results will suffer. We face competition for our voice trading services from communication services providers’ legacy processes and new companies that may be able to create centralized trading solutions that replicate our voice trading platform or circumvent our intellectual property. These companies may be more effective in attracting voice traffic than the Exchange. We may face a new set of competitors as we launch new products and services. Our Carrier Services, PrivateExchange and AssuredAxcess solutions may compete with communication services providers’ legacy processes, communication services providers themselves and potentially other companies that provide software and services to communication services providers. We face competition for our data trading services from Internet service providers and Internet capacity resellers. In addition, software-based, Internet infrastructure companies focused on Internet protocol route control products may compete with us for business. Furthermore, Internet network service providers may make technological advancements, such as the introduction of improved routing protocols to enhance the quality of their services, which could negatively impact the demand for our data services. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, sales and marketing abilities or support capabilities to compete successfully with these competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial resources than we do and, therefore, may have the ability to adopt aggressive pricing policies. In addition, many of these companies have longer operating histories and may have significantly greater technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to better attract the same potential customers that we are targeting. Once communications services providers have established business relationships with our competitors, it could be extremely difficult to convince them to utilize the Exchange or replace or limit their existing ways of conducting business. These competitors may be able to develop services or processes that are superior to our services or processes, or that achieve greater industry acceptance or that may be perceived by buyers and sellers as superior to ours. Where we compete with legacy processes, it may be particularly difficult to convince customers to utilize the Exchange or replace or limit their existing ways of conducting business. Furthermore, since the Exchange provides full disclosure of prices offered by participating sellers on an anonymous basis, buyers may choose to purchase network capacity through the Exchange instead of sending traffic to their existing suppliers at pre-determined, and often higher, contract prices. If suppliers of communications capacity fear or determine that the price disclosure and spot market limit order mechanisms provided by the Exchange will “cannibalize” the greater profit-generating potential of their existing businesses, they may choose to withdraw from the Exchange. If participants withdraw from the Exchange in significant numbers, it could cause the Exchange to fail and materially harm our business. Expanding and maintaining international operations will subject us to additional risks and uncertainties. We expect to continue the expansion of our international operations, which will subject us to additional risks and uncertainties. We have established EDPs in New York City, Los Angeles, London, Frankfurt, Miami and Hong Kong, and we intend to expand our presence. Foreign operations are subject to a variety of additional risks that could have an adverse effect on our business, including: • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • changing and conflicting regulatory requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • tariffs and general export restrictions; • difficulties in integrating, staffing and managing foreign operations; • political instability; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the impact of local economic conditions and practices; • potential non-enforceability of our intellectual property and proprietary rights in foreign countries; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our inability to manage these risks effectively could result in increased costs and distractions from our strategic goals, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results. The future market for our new products and services, and, therefore, the revenues from these new products and services, cannot be predicted with certainty. The market for our new products and services might develop more slowly or differently than we currently anticipate, if at all. The Members and potential customers may decide that these new products and services do not meet their requirements or may not be willing to purchase them at the prices we seek to charge. Even if the market for these new products and services develops, our offerings may not achieve widespread acceptance. We may be unable to successfully and cost-effectively market and sell our products and services to a sufficiently large number of Members or customers. Our pricing in the Exchange and new products and services may not be sustainable and may decline over time. As prices for international long-distance minutes continue to decline, we need to charge the Members less for utilization of our services. We may also need to reduce our prices to drive incremental minutes on the Exchange. As we have a predominantly fixed-price operating cost structure, we are evaluating pricing programs that maximize the volume and aggregate fee revenues on the Exchange. We continue to explore additional volume discounting programs and alternative pricing programs to drive overall fee revenues. Our fee revenue per minute may decline in the coming quarters as we explore these pricing initiatives. We cannot be certain that our pricing programs will drive significant enough increases in volume to offset the price reduction and, therefore, our aggregate fee revenues may decline due to these pricing programs. Due to reductions in personnel, we may not have the expertise and personnel to succeed. In an effort to maintain an appropriate cost structure in light of our decline in revenue, we adopted certain cost-cutting initiatives that resulted in the downsizing of administrative, management, and executive positions over the past years. These initiatives may result in losses of efficiency due to increased demands and an increased reliance on our remaining employees. Any such losses of efficiency, or our inability to retain our remaining personnel, may lead to reduced revenues, failure to meet projections, including guidance regarding our financial results, and unexpected expenses which may have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies and the customers we serve have impacted our results of operations, and may continue to adversely impact our results in the future. The recent recession in the United States, turmoil in the U.S. financial markets, the economic slowdown and uncertainty over the breadth, depth and duration of the slowdown adversely impacted our business in 2008 and 2009 and continue to pose challenges to results of operations. In particular, we have experienced significant declines in trading volumes during these periods. Future unfavorable general economic conditions in the U.S. or in one or more of our other major markets could negatively affect the affordability of and demand for some of our products and services. The business and operating results of communications service providers have been, and will continue to be, materially affected by worldwide economic conditions. In addition, adverse economic conditions may lead to an increased number of our customers that are unable to pay for our services. If these challenges continue for a significant period or there is significant further deterioration in the global economy, the demand for our services will continue to be adversely impacted, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Future governmental regulations may adversely affect the Exchange business. The communications services industry is highly regulated in the United States and in foreign countries. The Exchange business may become subject to various United States, United Kingdom and other foreign laws, regulations, agency actions and court decisions. The FCC has jurisdiction over interstate and international communications in the United States, which includes our Carrier Services business. The FCC currently does not regulate the Exchange services we offer. If, however, the FCC determined that it should regulate the Exchange services and that certain of our services or arrangements require us to obtain regulatory authorizations, the FCC could order us to make payments into certain funds supported by regulatory entities, require us to comply with reporting and other ongoing regulatory requirements and/or fine us. Our growth strategy may include activities that will subject us to additional regulation by the FCC. We are currently not regulated at the state level, but could be subjected to regulation by individual states as to services that they deem to be within their jurisdiction. In addition, like many businesses that use the Internet to conduct business, we operate in an environment of tremendous uncertainty as to potential government regulation. We believe that we are not currently subject to direct regulation of the services that we offer other than our Carrier Services and regulations generally applicable to all businesses. However, governmental agencies have not yet been able to adapt all existing regulations to the Internet environment. Laws and regulations may be introduced and court decisions reached that affect the Internet or other web-based services, covering issues such as member pricing, member privacy, freedom of expression, access charges, content and quality of products and services, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. In addition, because we offer our services internationally, foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are subject to their regulations. Any future regulation may have a negative impact on our business by restricting our method of operation or imposing additional costs. Further, as a company that conducts a portion of our business over the Internet, it is unclear in which jurisdictions we are actually conducting business. Our failure to qualify to do business in a jurisdiction that requires us to do so could subject us to fines or penalties, and could result in our inability to enforce contracts in that jurisdiction. Changes in the regulatory framework under which our carrier subsidiary operates could adversely affect its business prospects or results of operations. Our Carrier Services subsidiary, Arbinet Carrier Services, Inc., is subject to regulation by the FCC and other federal, state and local agencies, which may restrict our ability to operate in or provide specified products or services. ACS is required to comply with various FCC reporting obligations and to contribute to Federal communications programs, such as the Universal Service Fund, when applicable. Failure to comply with these obligations may result in fines. The adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to the existing regulatory framework could adversely affect our business plans. Further, compliance with the regulatory scheme will add expenses to our operating costs. We expect that these concerns will be offset by improved product and service offerings, improved efficiencies and simplified customers’ experiences. A failure in this strategy may have a significant impact on our operating results. Risks Relating to Our Technology System failures, human error and security breaches could cause us to lose Members and expose us to liability. The communications services providers that use our services depend on us to accurately track, rate, store and report the traffic and trades that are conducted on our platform. Software defects, system failures, natural disasters, human error and other factors could lead to inaccurate or lost information or the inability to access the Exchange. From time to time, we have experienced temporary service interruptions. Our systems could be vulnerable to computer viruses, physical and electronic break-ins and third party security breaches. In a few instances, we manually input trading data, such as bid and ask prices, at the request of the Members, which could give rise to human error and miscommunication of trading information and may result in disputes with the Members. Any loss of information or the delivery of inaccurate information due to human error, miscommunication or otherwise or a breach or failure of our security mechanisms that leads to unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information could lead to Member dissatisfaction and possible claims against us for damages. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS Undetected defects in our technology could adversely affect our operations. Our technology is complex and is susceptible to errors, defects or performance problems, commonly called “bugs.” Although we regularly test our software and systems extensively, we cannot ensure that our testing will detect every potential error, defect or performance problem. Any such error, defect or performance problem could have an adverse effect on our operations. Users of our services may be particularly sensitive to any defects, errors or performance problems in our systems because a failure of our systems to monitor transactions accurately could adversely affect their own operations. If we do not adequately maintain the Members’ and customers’ confidential information, we could be subject to legal liability and our reputation could be harmed. Any breach of security relating to confidential information of the Members or customers could result in legal liability to us and a reduction in use of the Exchange or cancellation of our services, either of which could materially harm our business. Our personnel often receive highly confidential information from buyers and sellers that is stored in our files and on our systems. Similarly, we receive sensitive pricing information that has historically been maintained as a matter of confidence within buyer and seller organizations. We currently have practices, policies and procedures in place to ensure the confidentiality of the Members’ and customers’ information. However, our practices, policies and procedures to protect against the risk of inadvertent disclosure or unintentional breaches of security might fail to adequately protect information that we are obligated to keep confidential. We may not be successful in adopting more effective systems for maintaining confidential information, so our exposure to the risk of disclosure of the confidential information of the Members or customers may grow as we expand our business and increase the amount of information that we possess. If we fail to adequately maintain the Members’ or customers’ confidential information, some of them could end their business relationships with us and we could be subject to legal liability. We may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the communications services industry. The communications services industry is subject to constant and rapid technological changes. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. New services and technologies may be superior to our services and technologies, or may render our services and technologies obsolete. To be successful, we must adapt to and keep pace with rapidly changing technologies by continually improving, expanding and developing new services and technologies to meet customer needs. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to technological advances, meet the evolving needs of Members and customers and conform to emerging industry standards on a cost-effective and timely basis, if implemented. We will need to spend significant amounts of capital to enhance and expand our services to keep pace with changing technologies. Failure to do so may materially harm our business. Any failure of our physical infrastructure could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenue and harm our business reputation and financial results. Our business depends on providing customers with highly reliable service. We must protect our infrastructure and any colocated equipment of the Members located in our EDPs. Our EDPs and the services we provide are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including: • human error; • physical or electronic security breaches; • fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters; • water damage; • power loss; and • terrorism, sabotage and vandalism. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Problems at one or more of our EDPs, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or significant equipment damage. Any loss of services, equipment damage or inability to terminate voice calls or supply Internet capacity could reduce the confidence of the Members and customers and could consequently impair our ability to obtain and retain Members and customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results. Our business could be harmed by prolonged electrical power outages or shortages or general availability of electrical resources. Our EDPs are susceptible to electrical power shortages, planned or unplanned power outages caused by these shortages, such as those that occurred in California during 2001 and in the Northeast in 2003, and limitations, especially internationally, of adequate power resources. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by housing our equipment in data centers, and using backup generators and power supplies. Power outages that last beyond our backup and alternative power arrangements could significantly harm the Members and customers and our business. Our inability to expand or enhance our systems may limit our growth. We seek to generate a high volume of traffic and transactions on the Exchange. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain Members and customers. Our revenues depend primarily on the number and the volume of Member transactions that are successfully completed. We need to expand and upgrade our technology, systems and network infrastructure both to meet increased traffic and to implement new features and functions. We may be unable to project accurately the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our services or to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely fashion. We use internally custom-developed systems to process transactions executed on the Exchange, including billing and collections processing. We must continually improve these systems in order to accommodate the level of use of the Exchange. In addition, we may add new features and functionality to our services that may result in the need to develop or license additional technologies. Our inability to add additional software and hardware or to upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems or network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic or transaction volume could have adverse consequences. These consequences include unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of Member or customer support, impaired quality of the Members’ or customers’ experiences of our service and delays in reporting accurate financial information. Our failure to provide new features or functionality also could result in these consequences. We may be unable to upgrade effectively and expand our systems in a timely manner or to integrate smoothly any newly developed or purchased technologies with our existing systems. Current adverse economic conditions and tightening credit availability may impair our ability to expand and enhance our systems. These difficulties could harm or limit our ability to expand our business. Our business is dependent on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our product and service offerings will depend largely on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, as well as timely development of complementary products, for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, increased frequency of use or increased bandwidth requirements, the Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it. In addition, the performance of the Internet may be harmed by an increased number of users or bandwidth requirements or by “viruses,” “worms” and similar programs. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. The public Internet is used significantly as the mechanism to interconnect many of our customers and suppliers who are using VoIP technologies, and VoIP quality degrades rapidly with congestion or other quality issues in the Internet. Any such outages and delays could significantly reduce the level of Internet usage as well as the level of voice traffic and the processing of transactions on the Exchange. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Relating to Patents and Proprietary Information If we are not able to obtain and enforce patent protection for our methods and technologies, our ability to successfully operate the Exchange and commercialize our product and service candidates will be harmed and we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop or have purchased under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. However, we may not hold proprietary rights to some of our current or future methods and technologies, and some of the protections for our proprietary methods and technologies may not be recognized in all jurisdictions. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in our patent applications. As a result, we may be required to obtain licenses under third-party patents. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to operate the Exchange or commercialize our product and services candidates. Our strategy depends in part on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. This process is expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable, so even if we obtain patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. In addition, the issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have the right to practice the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing our own patented product or service and practicing our own patented technology. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of technology-oriented companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards which the United States Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary information to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems and costs in protecting their proprietary information in these foreign countries. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and/or opposition proceedings and the risk of such claims being invalidated by infringement litigation. Alternatively, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. Our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. Moreover, once they have been issued, our patents and any patent that we have licensed, may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. If our patents are invalidated or otherwise limited, other companies will be better able to develop products that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Others may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property, forcing us to expend substantial resources in resulting litigation, the outcome of which would be uncertain. Any unfavorable outcome of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. If any parties successfully claim that our creation, offer for sale, sale, import or use of technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to incur expenses to litigate the claims 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS and pay damages (potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed such parties’ patents or copyrights). In addition, if we are unsuccessful in litigation, a court could issue a permanent injunction preventing us from operating the Exchange or commercializing our product and service candidates for the life of the patent that we have been deemed to have infringed. Litigation concerning patents and other forms of intellectual property and proprietary technologies is becoming more widespread and can be protracted and expensive and can distract management and other key personnel from performing their duties for us. Any legal action against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected methods, processes, products and services could, in addition to subjecting us to potential liability for damages, require us to obtain a license in order to continue to operate the Exchange or market the affected products and services. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be nonexclusive, and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to operate the Exchange effectively or market some of our technology, products or services, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings to enforce our patent rights, we could incur substantial costs, substantial liability for damages and be required to cease operation of the Exchange or commercialization of our products and services. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation could divert our management’s efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations, including the commercialization of our products and services. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We also rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, advisors and others to protect our proprietary technology, processes and methods. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide adequate remedies in the event of breaches that result in unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. In addition, our competitors may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, or they may otherwise become known, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. To the extent that our corporate partners, employees, consultants, advisors and others use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 