Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history as a company and as an exchange for communications services providers. If we are unable to overcome the difficulties frequently encountered by early stage companies, our business could be materially harmed. We began our operations in November 1996. In October 1999, we discontinued some of our previous operations, which involved the sale and rental of telecommunication equipment and operating international routes, and modified our business strategy to focus exclusively on our Internet-based exchange for long-distance voice calls. In the second quarter of 2004, we introduced our exchange-based system for buying and selling Internet capacity. In 2006, we introduced a number of new products, including AssuredAxcess, PrivateExchange and Peering Solutions. In August 2006 we established a new subsidiary, Arbinet Digital Media Corporation, to explore and develop products and services to address the large and growing market opportunity presented by the exchange of digital media, and in December 2006, we acquired Flowphonics Limited, now known as Broad Street Digital Limited, a license management platform for intellectual property rights and digital content distribution. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of commercial development in new and rapidly evolving markets. In order to overcome these risks and difficulties, we must, among other things: • generate sufficient usage of our exchange by our members; • maintain and attract a sufficient number of members to our exchange to sustain profitability; • execute our business strategy successfully, including successful execution of our Internet capacity business; • manage our expanding operations; • upgrade our technology, systems and network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic and transaction volume and to implement new features and functions; • achieve adoption by having customers and potential customers use our new products and services; and • successfully integrate Broad Street Digital into our business. Our failure to overcome these risks and difficulties and the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage companies could impair our ability to expand our business, continue our operations or raise capital. We have incurred a cumulative loss since inception and if we do not maintain or generate significant revenues, we may not remain profitable. We have incurred significant losses since our inception in November 1996. At December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was approximately $90.0 million. Although we achieved net income of $7.7 million and $9.7 million for the years ended 2004 and 2005, respectively, we incurred a net loss of $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and we expect to incur significant future expenses, particularly with respect to the development of new products and services, deployment of additional infrastructure, integration of Broad Street Digital and expansion in strategic global markets. To remain profitable, we must continue to increase the usage of our exchange by our members, attract new members in order to improve the liquidity of our exchange, and enter into agreements with music licensors and licensees to utilize our rightsrouter technology. We must also deliver superior service to our members, mitigate the credit risks of our business, develop and commercialize new products and services and grow Broad Street Digital. We may not succeed in these activities and may never generate revenues that are significant or large enough to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. A large portion of our fee revenues is derived from fees that we charge our members on a per-minute and per-megabyte basis. Therefore, a general market decline in the price for voice calls and Internet capacity may 16 Table of Contents adversely affect the fees we charge our members in order to keep or increase the volume of member business and could materially impact our future revenues and profits. Our failure to remain profitable would depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to expand our business, diversify our product and service offerings or continue our operations. Our members may not trade on our exchange or utilize our other services due to, among other things, the lack of a liquid market, which may materially harm our business. Volatility in trading volumes may have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Traditionally, communications services providers buy and sell network capacity in a direct, one-to-one process. Our members may not trade on our exchange unless it provides them with an active and liquid market. Liquidity depends upon the number of buyers and sellers that actively trade on a particular communications route. Our ability to increase the number of buyers that actively trade on our exchange will depend on, among other things, the willingness and ability of prospective sellers to satisfy the quality criteria imposed by prospective buyers, and upon the increased participation of competing sellers from which a buyer can choose in order to obtain favorable pricing, achieve cost savings and consistently gain access to the required quality services. Our ability to increase the number of sellers that actively trade on our exchange will depend upon the extent to which there are sufficient numbers of buyers available to increase the likelihood that sellers will generate meaningful sales revenues. Alternatively, our members may not trade on our exchange if they are not able to realize significant cost savings. This may also result in a decline in trading volume and liquidity of our exchange. Trading volume is additionally impacted by the mix of hundreds of geographic markets traded on the exchange. Each market has distinct characteristics such as price and average call duration. Declines in the trading volume on our exchange would result in lower revenues to us and would adversely affect our profitability because of our predominantly fixed cost structure. Volatility in trading volumes may have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our members may not trade on our exchange, because such members may conclude that our exchange will replace their existing business at lower margins. If our exchange continues to be an active, liquid market in which lower-priced alternatives are available to buyers, sellers may conclude that further development of our exchange will erode their profits and they may stop offering communications capacity on our exchange. Since our exchange provides full disclosure of prices offered by participating sellers, buyers may choose to purchase network capacity through our exchange instead of sending traffic to their existing suppliers at pre-determined, and often higher, contract prices. If suppliers of communications capacity fear or determine that the price disclosure and spot market limit order mechanisms provided by our exchange will “cannibalize” the greater profit-generating potential of their existing business, they may choose to withdraw from our exchange, which ultimately could cause our exchange to fail and materially harm our business. Our standard member enrollment cycle can be long and uncertain and may not result in revenues. Our member enrollment cycle for full membership on the exchange can be long, and may take up to 12 months or even longer from our initial contact with a communications services provider until that provider signs our membership agreement. Because we offer a new method of purchasing and selling international long-distance voice calls and Internet capacity, we must invest a substantial amount of time and resources to educate services providers regarding the benefits of our exchange. Factors that contribute to the length and uncertainty of our member enrollment cycle and that may reduce the likelihood that a member will purchase or sell communications traffic through our exchange include: • the strength of pre-existing one-to-one relationships that prospective members may already have with their communications services providers; • existing incentive structures within our members’ organizations that do not reward decision-makers for savings achieved through cost-cutting; 17 Table of Contents • the experience of the trial trading process by prospective members; and • an aversion to new methods for buying and selling communications capacity. If we fail to enroll new members, we may not increase our revenues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Until 2002, our operations had been cash flow negative and we depended on equity financings and credit facilities to meet our cash requirements, which may not be available to us in the future on favorable terms, if at all. We may require substantial additional funds to execute our business plan and, if additional capital is not available, we may need to limit, scale back or cease our operations. Until the year ended December 31, 2002, we experienced negative operating cash flow and depended upon equity financings, as well as borrowings under our credit facilities, to meet our cash requirements in each annual period since we began our operations in November 1996. We expect to meet our cash requirements for the next 12 months through a combination of cash flow from operations, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. If our cash requirements vary materially from those currently planned, or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from our business, we may be required to borrow under our credit facilities or seek additional financing sooner than anticipated. Our current credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, expires on May 25, 2007. Even though we expect to extend the expiration date on this facility, we may default under this facility or may not be able to renew this credit facility upon expiration or on acceptable terms. In addition, we may seek additional funding in the future and intend to do so through public or private equity and debt financings. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product or service candidates or products or services, which we would otherwise pursue on our own. Additional funds may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may not be able to execute our business plan. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected and we may be required to significantly curtail or cease our operations. Our settlement procedures subject us to financial risk on all receivables not accepted by GMAC or Silicon Valley Bank under our credit arrangements or covered by our other methods of managing our credit risk. In addition, we may elect to forego potential revenues to avoid certain credit risks. Under our settlement procedures, we pay a seller on our exchange the net sales price, or the total amount sold by a member less the amount purchased by that member in a given period, for its trading activity. We may not, however, collect the net sales price from the buyers on our exchange until after we have paid the sellers. We have established credit risk assessment and credit underwriting services with each of GMAC and SVB. We are subject to financial risk for any nonpayment by our buyers for receivables that GMAC and/or SVB do not accept. We seek to mitigate that risk by evaluating the creditworthiness of each buyer prior to its joining our exchange, as well as requiring deposits, letters of credit or prepayments from some buyers. We also manage our credit risk by reducing the amount owed to us by our buying members by netting the buy amount and the sell amount for each member on our exchange. In 2006, approximately 88% of our trading revenues were covered by our third party credit agreements, netting, prepayments or other cash collateral, of which our third party credit underwriters covered 43%. However, our credit evaluations cannot fully determine whether buyers can or will pay us for capacity they purchase through our exchange. In the future, we may elect to increase the amount of credit we extend to our customers we deem creditworthy in order to reduce our credit underwriting costs. If buyers fail to pay us for any reason and we have not been able or have elected not to secure credit risk protection with respect to these buyers, our business could be adversely affected. In the event that the creditworthiness of our buyers deteriorates, our credit providers and we may elect not to extend credit and consequently we may forego potential revenues that could materially affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit risk of our members not covered by our credit management programs with third parties, which could result in material losses to us. There have been adverse changes in the public and private equity and debt markets for communications services providers that have affected their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures. In some cases, the significant debt burden carried by certain communications services providers has adversely affected their ability to pay their outstanding balances with us and some of our members have filed for bankruptcy as a result of their debt burdens, making us an unsecured creditor of the bankrupt entity. Although these members may emerge from bankruptcy proceedings in the future, a bankruptcy proceeding can be a slow and cumbersome process and creditors often receive partial or no payment toward outstanding obligations. Furthermore, because we are an international business, we may be subject to the bankruptcy laws of other nations, which may provide us limited or no relief. Even if these members should emerge from bankruptcy proceedings, the extent and timing of any future trading activity is uncertain. In addition, because we generally pay the sellers on our exchange and then seek payment from the buyers on our exchange, a bankruptcy court may require us to return the funds received from a buyer if we, and not our sellers, are deemed to have received a preferential payment prior to bankruptcy. Although we have credit risk programs in place to monitor and mitigate the associated risks, including our arrangements with GMAC and SVB and our policy of netting a member’s buy and sell transactions on our exchange, we do not always utilize these programs for certain members and, in such instances, these programs are not effective in eliminating or reducing these credit risks to us. We have experienced losses due to the failure of some of our members to meet their obligations and then subsequently seeking protection of applicable bankruptcy laws. Although these losses have not been significant to date, future losses, if incurred, could be significant and could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to effectively manage the pricing risk in our AssuredAxcess service. With our AssuredAxcess service, we may offer our customers a fixed rate for specific markets for a set duration. We may assume the risk on the price of the minute and we may not be able to secure the prices from sellers to ensure we do not lose money on the minutes purchased by the buyers through the AssuredAxcess service. We could incur significant losses related to having a higher cost of minutes sold in relation to the price offered to the buyer of this service. If we are not able to retain our current senior management team or attract and retain qualified technical and business personnel, our business will suffer. We are dependent on the members of our senior management team, in particular, J. Curt Hockemeier, our President and Chief Executive Officer, for our business success. Our employment arrangements with Mr. Hockemeier and our other executive officers are terminable on short notice or no notice. We do not carry key man life insurance on the lives of any of our key personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers would result in a significant loss in the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess and could significantly affect our current and future growth. In addition, our growth will require us to hire a significant number of qualified technical and administrative personnel. There is intense competition for human resources, including management, in the technical fields in which we operate, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the successful operation and growth of our exchange. The loss of the services of key personnel or the inability to attract new employees when needed could severely harm our business. The market for our services is competitive and if we are unable to compete effectively, our financial results will suffer. 19 Table of Contents We face competition for our voice trading services from communications services providers’ legacy processes and new companies that may be able to create centralized trading solutions that replicate our voice trading platform or circumvent our intellectual property. These companies may be more effective in attracting voice traffic than our exchange. We may face a new set of competitors as we launch new products and services. Our PrivateExchange and AssuredAxcess solutions may compete with communications services providers’ legacy processes, with communications services providers themselves and potentially other companies that provide software and services to communications services providers. Our VoIP PeeringSolutions may compete with other companies trying to create solutions that help communications service providers and corporations that manage traffic across traditional and VoIP networks. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, sales and marketing abilities or support capabilities to compete successfully with these new competitors. These new competitors may be able to develop services or processes that are superior to our services or processes or that achieve greater industry acceptance or that may be perceived by buyers and sellers as superior to ours. Where we compete with legacy processes, it may be particularly difficult to convince customers to utilize our exchange or replace or limit their existing ways of conducting business. This competition may lead to reduced expected revenues, failure to meet projections, unexpected expenses and may have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We face competition for our data trading services from Internet service providers and Internet capacity resellers. In addition, software-based, Internet infrastructure companies focused on Internet protocol route control products may compete with us for business. Furthermore, Internet network service providers may make technological advancements, such as the introduction of improved routing protocols to enhance the quality of their services, which could negatively impact the demand for our data services. Our Broad Street Digital business provides a content/license management and distribution platform for publishers and retailers of music. There are a number of competitors that offer similar services, many of which have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and may have the ability to better attract and retain the same customers that we are targeting. Some of our current and potential competitors may have greater financial resources than we do and may have the ability to adopt aggressive pricing policies. In addition, many of these companies have longer operating histories and may have significantly greater technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to better attract the same potential customers that we are targeting. Once customers have established business relationships, it could be extremely difficult to convince them to utilize our exchange or replace or limit their existing ways of conducting business. We expect competition to intensify in the future, and we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, sales and marketing abilities or support capabilities to compete successfully. Our competitors may be able to develop services or processes that are superior to our services or processes or that achieve greater industry acceptance or that may be perceived by buyers and sellers as superior to ours. Future governmental regulations may adversely affect our business. The communications services industry is highly regulated in the United States and in foreign countries. Our business may become subject to various United States, United Kingdom and other foreign laws, regulations, agency actions and court decisions. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has jurisdiction over interstate and international communications in the United States. The FCC currently does not regulate the services we offer. If, however, the FCC determined, on its own motion or in response to a third party’s filing, that it should regulate our services and that certain of our services or arrangements require us to obtain regulatory authorizations, the FCC could order us to make payments into certain funds supported by regulatory entities, 20 Table of Contents require us to comply with reporting and other ongoing regulatory requirements and/or fine us. We are currently not regulated at the state level, but could be subjected to regulation by individual states as to services that they deem to be within their jurisdiction. In addition, like many businesses that use the Internet to conduct business, we operate in an environment of tremendous uncertainty as to potential government regulation. We believe that we are not currently subject to direct regulation of the services that we offer other than regulations generally applicable to all businesses. However, governmental agencies have not yet been able to adapt all existing regulations to the Internet environment. Laws and regulations may be introduced and court decisions reached that affect the Internet or other web-based services, covering issues such as member pricing, member privacy, freedom of expression, access charges, content and quality of products and services, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. In addition, because we offer our services internationally, foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are subject to their regulations. Any future regulation may have a negative impact on our business by restricting our method of operation or imposing additional costs. Further, as a company that conducts a portion of our business over the Internet, it is unclear in which jurisdictions we are actually conducting business. Our failure to qualify to do business in a jurisdiction that requires us to do so could subject us to fines or penalties, and could result in our inability to enforce contracts in that jurisdiction. Any of these government actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Expanding and maintaining international operations will subject us to additional risks and uncertainties. We expect to continue the expansion of our international operations, which will subject us to additional risks and uncertainties. Although we have established EDPs in New York City, Los Angeles, London, Frankfurt, Miami and Hong Kong, we intend to expand our presence. Foreign operations are subject to a variety of additional risks that could have an adverse effect on our business, including: • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • changing and conflicting regulatory requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • tariffs and general export restrictions; • difficulties in integrating, staffing and managing foreign operations; • political instability; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; • the impact of local economic conditions and practices; • potential non-enforceability of our intellectual property and proprietary rights in foreign countries; and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The future market for our new products and services, and therefore the revenues from these new products and services, cannot be predicted with certainty. The market for our new products and services, including those of Broad Street Digital, might develop more slowly or differently than we currently anticipate, if at all. Our members and potential customers may decide that these new products and services do not meet their requirements or may not be willing to purchase them at the prices we seek to charge. Even if the market for these new products and services develops, our offerings may not 21 Table of Contents achieve widespread acceptance. We may be unable to successfully and cost-effectively market and sell the services we offer to a sufficiently large number of members. Some of the new products and services, such as VoIP Peering, are intended to help communications services providers manage the complexities of routing traffic across traditional and VoIP networks. We may develop VoIP solutions that do not meet the requirements of our potential customers. We may not predict properly all of the requirements related to the technology, market adoption of the new technology and the requirements for new products and services related to the new technology. Our pricing in our current exchange and new products and services may not be sustainable and may decline over time. As prices for international long-distance minutes continue to decline, we may need to charge our members less for utilization of our services. We may also need to reduce our prices to drive incremental minutes on our exchange. As we have a predominantly fixed-price operating cost structure, we believe we should be implementing pricing programs that maximize the volume and aggregate fee revenues to our exchange. In 2006, we created a new class of membership (the Associate Membership Program) offering a modified fee structure to target specialty operators in an effort to increase membership and liquidity on the exchange. We continue to explore additional volume discounting programs and alternative pricing programs to drive overall fee revenues. We expect our fee revenue per minute to decline in the coming quarters as we explore these pricing initiatives. We cannot be certain that our pricing programs will drive significant enough increases in volume to offset the price reduction and, therefore, our aggregate fee revenues could decline due to these pricing programs. We may not have the expertise and personnel to succeed in these new markets. We have identified potential opportunities in digital media, advertising, and certain mobile content markets to leverage our platform that we intend to pursue. These new markets may require a significant financial and personnel investment to create a viable product and we may not have the expertise, personnel or other resources to succeed in these markets. There is no guarantee that we will be able to find the appropriate candidates that will help us develop and launch these new products and services. If we are unable to hire appropriate candidates and to create and market a viable product, these investments may lead to reduced expected revenues, failure to meet projections, unexpected expenses and may have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. There are risks associated with the acquisition of Flowphonics Limited, now known as Broad Street Digital Limited, and we may not be successful in growing the business or capitalizing on the acquisition. Flowphonics Limited, now known as Broad Street Digital Limited, is an early stage company without historical operating results. As a result, there are a number of risks associated with the acquisition, including but not limited to: • our ability to successfully integrate Broad Street Digital systems and processes with ours; • our ability to retain key Broad Street Digital employees; • our ability to retain key Broad Street Digital customer contracts; and • our ability to successfully enter into agreements with additional licensors and licensees. If we are not successful in any of these areas, our operating results may be adversely affected. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals of any of our acquisitions. 22 Table of Contents We may in the future acquire complementary companies, products and technologies. Such acquisitions involve a number of risks, which may include the following: • we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or that economic conditions have changed, all of which may result in a future impairment charge; • we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business and may have difficulty retaining the customers and/or the key personnel of the acquired business; • we may have difficulty incorporating and integrating acquired technologies into our business; • we may face patent infringement risks associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products; • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing diverse locations; • we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; • an acquisition may subject us to additional telecommunications regulations; • an acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees of the acquired business or third parties; and • we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with technology and legal contingencies of the acquired business. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time from our business as well as significant out-of-pocket costs. The consideration that we pay in connection with an acquisition could affect our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate such acquisitions. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options or other rights, our existing stockholders may experience dilution in their share ownership in our company and their earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs (such as of acquired in-process research and development costs) and restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. Any of these factors may materially and adversely affect our business and operations. The formation of a Special Committee by our Board of Directors and its exploration of strategic alternatives may distract management and employees or otherwise disrupt operations, which could adversely affect our results of operations. On October 23, 2006, we announced the formation of a Special Committee of our Board of Directors to consider strategic alternatives. While the Special Committee will look to strategic alternatives it feels may enhance stockholder value, the uncertainty inherent in such process could undermine Company morale, disrupt operations, and may at times divert management’s attention from routine matters, all of which could harm operations. For instance, the Special Committee has no exact timeline for this process and we do not intend to disclose developments or provide updates on the progress or status of the strategic alternatives review process or of any strategic alternatives under consideration until and if the Board of Directors has approved such transaction. The process of exploring strategic alternatives may be more time consuming and expensive than we 23 Table of Contents currently anticipate. In addition, we cannot assure you that this strategic alternatives review process ultimately will result in any strategic transaction or sale of the Company, or otherwise result in benefits to the Company or our stockholders, so stockholders may never realize the potential enhancement in value the Special Committee is seeking. Ultimately, the unpredictability associated with this process could adversely affect our results of operations in any of the ways described above or in various other ways that are unforeseen at this time. Material weaknesses in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting could result in inaccurate financial statements or other disclosures or fail to prevent fraud, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our independent auditors are required to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our management is also required to report on the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. As disclosed in Amendment No. 1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 our management identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting and, accordingly, determined that internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2005. Such material weakness and deficiencies in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting could result in inaccurate financial statements or other disclosures or fail to prevent fraud, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, if we do not remediate any known material weakness, we could be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, we could fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations, or investor perceptions could be negatively affected; each of these potential consequences could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Technology System failures, human error and security breaches could cause us to lose members and expose us to liability. The communications services providers that use our exchange depend on us to accurately track, rate, store and report the traffic and trades that are conducted on our exchange. Software defects, system failures, natural disasters, human error and other factors could lead to inaccurate or lost information or the inability to access our exchange. From time to time, we have experienced temporary service interruptions. These interruptions may occur in the future. Our systems could be vulnerable to computer viruses, physical and electronic break-ins and third party security breaches. In a few instances, we manually input trading data, such as bid and ask prices, at the request of our members, which could give rise to human error and miscommunication of trading information and may result in disputes with our members. Any loss of information or the delivery of inaccurate information due to human error, miscommunication or otherwise or a breach or failure of our security mechanisms that leads to unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information could lead to member dissatisfaction and possible claims against us for damages. Our failure to maintain the continuous availability of our exchange for trading, to consistently deliver accurate information to members of our exchange or to maintain the security of their confidential information could expose us to liability and materially harm our business. Undetected defects in our technology could adversely affect our operations. Our technology is complex and is susceptible to errors, defects or performance problems, commonly called “bugs.” Although we regularly test our software and systems extensively, we cannot ensure that our testing will detect every potential error, defect or performance problem. Any such error, defect or performance problem could have an adverse effect on our operations. Members and potential members of our exchange may be particularly sensitive to any defects, errors or performance 24 Table of Contents problems in our systems because a failure of our systems to accurately monitor transactions could adversely affect their own operations. If we do not adequately maintain our members’ confidential information, we could be subject to legal liability and our reputation could be harmed. Any breach of security relating to our members’ confidential information could result in legal liability to us and a reduction in use of our exchange or cancellation of our services, either of which could materially harm our business. Our personnel often receive highly confidential information from buyers and sellers that is stored in our files and on our systems. Similarly, we receive sensitive pricing information that has historically been maintained as a matter of confidence within buyer and seller organizations. We currently have practices, policies and procedures in place to ensure the confidentiality of our members’ information. However, our practices, policies and procedures to protect against the risk of inadvertent disclosure or unintentional breaches of security might fail to adequately protect information that we are obligated to keep confidential. We may not be successful in adopting more effective systems for maintaining confidential information, so our exposure to the risk of disclosure of the confidential information of our members may grow as we expand our business and increase the amount of information that we possess. If we fail to adequately maintain our members’ confidential information, some of our members could end their business relationships with us and we could be subject to legal liability. We may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the communications services industry. The communications services industry is subject to constant and rapid technological changes. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. In addition, widely accepted standards have not yet been developed for the technologies that we employ. New services and technologies may be superior to our services and technologies, or may render our services and technologies obsolete. To be successful, we must adapt to and keep pace with rapidly changing technologies by continually improving, expanding and developing new services and technologies to meet customer needs. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to technological advances, meet the evolving needs of members and prospective members and conform to emerging industry standards on a cost-effective and timely basis, if implemented. We will need to spend significant amounts of capital to enhance and expand our services to keep pace with changing technologies. Failure to do so may materially harm our business. Any failure of our physical infrastructure or the infrastructure of our members could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenue and harm our business reputation and financial results. Our business depends on providing members with highly reliable service. We must protect our infrastructure and the equipment of our members located in our EDPs. Additionally, our members must have reliable connectivity between their networks and our EDPs. Our EDPs, our members’ infrastructure, and the services we provide are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including: • human error; • physical or electronic security breaches; • fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters; • water damage; • power loss; • terrorism, sabotage and vandalism; and • prolonged electrical power outages, shortages, or availability. 25 Table of Contents Problems at one or more of our EDPs or our members’ networks, whether or not within our control, could result in among other things, service interruptions, significant equipment damage and significant loss of revenue opportunity. Any loss of services, equipment damage or inability to terminate voice calls or supply Internet capacity could reduce the confidence of our members and could consequently impair our ability to obtain and retain members, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results. The inability to expand our systems may limit our growth. We seek to generate a high volume of traffic and transactions on our exchange. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain members. Our revenues depend primarily on the number and the volume of member transactions that are successfully completed. We need to expand and upgrade our technology, systems and network infrastructure both to meet increased traffic and to implement new features and functions. We may be unable to project accurately the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our services or to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely fashion. We use internally custom-developed systems to process transactions executed on our exchange, including billing and collections processing. We must continually improve these systems in order to accommodate the level of use of our exchange. In addition, we may add new features and functionality to our services that may result in the need to develop or license additional technologies. Our inability to add additional software and hardware or to upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems or network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic or transaction volume could have adverse consequences. These consequences include unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of member support, impaired quality of the members’ experiences of our service and delays in reporting accurate financial information. Our failure to provide new features or functionality also could result in these consequences. We may be unable to effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely manner or to integrate smoothly any newly developed or purchased technologies with our existing systems. These difficulties could harm or limit our ability to expand our business. Our business is dependent on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our exchange will depend largely on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, as well as timely development of complementary products, for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, increased frequency of use or increased bandwidth requirements, the Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it. In addition, the performance of the Internet may be harmed by an increased number of users or bandwidth requirements or by “viruses,” “worms” and similar programs. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage as well as the level of traffic and the processing of transactions on our exchange. 26 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Patents and Proprietary Information If we are not able to obtain and enforce patent protection for our methods and technologies, our ability to successfully operate our exchange and commercialize our product and service candidates will be harmed and we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop or have purchased under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. However, we may not hold proprietary rights to some of our current or future methods and technologies. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in our patent applications. As a result, we may be required to obtain licenses under third-party patents. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, we will not be able to operate our exchange or commercialize our product and services candidates. Our strategy depends in part on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. This process is expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable, so even if we obtain patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. In addition, the issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have the right to practice the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing our own patented product and practicing our own patented technology. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of technology-oriented companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards which the United States Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary information to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems and costs in protecting their proprietary information in these foreign countries. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and/or opposition proceedings and the risk of such claims being invalidated by infringement litigation. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. Our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. Moreover, once they have been issued, our patents and any patent, which we have licensed, or may license rights may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. If our patents are invalidated or otherwise limited, other companies will be better able to develop products that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Others may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property, forcing us to expend substantial resources in resulting litigation, the outcome of which would be uncertain. Any unfavorable outcome of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents If any parties successfully claim that our creation, offer for sale, sale, import or use of technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to incur expenses to litigate the claims and pay damages (potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed such parties’ patents or copyrights). In addition, if we are unsuccessful in litigation, a court could issue a permanent injunction preventing us from operating our exchange or commercializing our product and service candidates for the life of the patent that we have been deemed to have infringed. Litigation concerning patents and other forms of intellectual property and proprietary technologies is becoming more widespread and can be protracted and expensive, and can distract management and other key personnel from performing their duties for us. Any legal action against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected methods, processes, products and services could, in addition to subjecting us to potential liability for damages, require us to obtain a license in order to continue to operate our exchange or market the affected product and service candidates. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be nonexclusive, and therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively operate our exchange or market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings to enforce our patent rights, we could incur substantial costs, substantial liability for damages and be required to cease operation of our exchange or our product and services commercialization efforts. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation could divert our management’s efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations, including the commercialization of our products and services. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology, processes and methods, we also rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, advisors and others. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 