RISK FACTORS On May 1, 1998, the German Control and Transparency in Business Act (Gesetz zur Kontrolle und Transparenz im Unternehmensbereich, or KonTraG), came into effect. The provisions of KonTraG include the requirement that the board of management of a German stock corporation establish a risk management system to identify material risks to the corporation at an early stage. As part of their audit, the auditors of a stock corporation assess whether the system meets the requirements of KonTraG. The audit requirement has been applicable to all fiscal years beginning after December 31, 1998, although the former VEBA underwent this audit voluntarily already in fiscal year 1998. Even prior to the requirements introduced by KonTraG, the Company believes it had an effective risk management system which integrates risk management in its Group-wide business procedures. The system includes controlling processes, Group-wide guidelines, data processing systems and regular reports to the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. The reliability of the risk management system is reviewed regularly by the internal audit units of the Company as well as by the Company’s external independent auditors, based on requirements set forth in the Stock Corporation Act. The documentation and evaluation of the Company’s risks are updated quarterly throughout the Group in the following steps: • Standardized documentation of risks and countermeasures; • Evaluation of risks according to the degree of severity and the probability of occurrence, and an annual assessment of the effectiveness of existing countermeasures; and • Analysis of the results and structured disclosure in a risk report. The following discussion groups risks according to the categories of external, operational and financial risks, as used by the Company in its risk management system. External The Company faces the general risks of economic downturns experienced by all businesses. The following are specific external risks the Company faces: The Company’s core energy operations face strong competition, which could depress margins. Since 1998, liberalization of the electricity markets in the EU has greatly altered competition in the German electricity market, which was formerly characterized by numerous strong competitors. Following liberalization, significant consolidation has taken place in the German market, resulting in four major interregional utilities: E.ON, RWE AG (“RWE”), Vattenfall Europe AG (“Vattenfall Europe”) and EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG (“EnBW”). In addition, the market for electricity trading has become more liquid and competitive, with a total trading volume of approximately 602 terawatt hours (“TWh”) at the European Energy Exchange (EEX) spot and futures market in 2005. Liberalization of the German electricity market also caused prices to decrease beginning in 1998, although prices have increased since 2001. Retail prices now exceed 1998 levels, and prices for sales to distributors and industrial customers have also increased. These price increases have generally been driven by increases in the price of fuel, as well as regulatory and other costs, with the result that competitive pressure on margins continues to exist. Higher wholesale prices are also expected to lead to the construction of new generation facilities, thereby increasing competition and the pressure on margins when the first such facilities come into operation. Although the Company intends to compete vigorously in the changed German electricity market, it cannot be certain that it will be able to develop its business as successfully as its competitors. For information about new regulatory changes that will affect the German electricity market, see the discussion on changes in laws and regulations below. Outside Germany, the electricity markets in which the Company operates are also subject to strong competition. The Company has significant U.K. and Swedish operations in electricity generation, distribution and supply, on both the wholesale and retail levels. Increased competition from new market entrants and existing market participants could adversely affect the Company’s U.K. or Swedish market share in both the retail and wholesale sectors. In the United States, E.ON U.S., the Company’s primary U.S. subsidiary, is exposed to 4 Table of Contents wholesale price and fuel cost risks with respect to its non-regulated operations, whose rates are not set by governmental regulators, and which represent a minority of E.ON U.S.’s business. The Company cannot guarantee it will be able to compete successfully in the United Kingdom, the Nordic countries, the United States, Eastern Europe, Italy or other electricity markets where it is already present or in new electricity markets the Company may enter. E.ON Ruhrgas also faces risks associated with increased competition in the gas sector; see “