Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by one or more of the following factors, any of which could cause actual results to vary materially from historical and current results or anticipated future results. Risk Factors Related to Our Operations If the United States were to change its support of nuclear power, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The U.S. government has been supportive of increased investment in nuclear power. However, if the federal government changed its policy or if public acceptance of nuclear technology declines, demand for nuclear power could be negatively affected and potentially increase the regulation of the nuclear power industry. It is unclear whether recent events in Japan regarding certain nuclear power plants will influence U.S. policy or public acceptance of commercial nuclear technology. Reduced demand for nuclear power or increased regulation would adversely affect our clients, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. 13 Table of Contents If our costs exceed the estimates we use to set the fixed-prices of our contracts, our earnings will be reduced. Nearly all of our power generation equipment sales contracts are entered into on a fixed-price basis. As a result, our Products Division has a limited ability to recover any cost overruns. Contract prices are established based in part on our projected costs, which are subject to a number of assumptions. The costs that we incur in connection with each contract can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections. Because of the large scale and long duration of our contracts, unanticipated changes may occur, such as customer budget decisions, design changes, delays in receiving permits and cost increases, as well as delays in delivery of our products. We often are contractually subject to liquidated damages for late delivery. Unanticipated cost increases or delays may occur as a result of several factors, including: • increases in the cost of commodities (primarily steel plate), labor or freight; • unanticipated technical problems (for example, difficulties in designing products that integrate well with new generations of gas turbines); • suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform (for example, substandard welding by a subcontractor), requiring modified execution plans or re-work. Cost increases or overruns that we cannot pass on to our customers or our payment of liquidated damages under our contracts will lower our earnings. Increases in commodity prices may adversely affect our gross margins. If we are unable to control the quality or timely production of products manufactured or services provided by our subcontractors, our reputation could be adversely affected and we could lose customers. If we are unable to recover any advance progress payments made to subcontractors, our profitability would be adversely affected. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture and assemble a substantial portion of our products as well as provide some specialty services. Subcontractors account for a significant percentage of our manufacturing costs. The quality and timing of production by our subcontractors is not totally under our control. Our subcontractors may not always meet the level of quality control and the delivery schedules required by our customers. The failure of our subcontractors to produce quality products in a timely manner could adversely affect our reputation and result in the cancellation of orders for our products, significant warranty and repair costs and the loss of customers. Alternatively, we could be required to move subcontract manufacturing to other locations, resulting in increased costs. In addition, we make advance progress payments to subcontractors in anticipation of their completion of our orders. We may be unable to recover those advances if a subcontractor fails to complete an order, which may adversely affect our profitability. Competition could result in decreased sales or decreased prices for our products and services. We face, and will continue to face, significant competition for the sale of our products and services. Competition could result in a reduction in the demand for, or the prices that we can charge for, our products and services. Our success is dependent in large part on our ability to: • anticipate or respond quickly to our customers’ needs and enhance and upgrade our existing products and services to meet those needs; • continue to price our products and services competitively and find low-cost subcontractors that can produce quality products; and • develop new products and services that are accepted by our customers and differentiated from our competitors’ offerings. Our competitors may: • develop more desirable, efficient, environmentally friendly or less expensive products; • be willing to accept lower prices to protect strategic market positions or increase market share; • be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities; or • adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. During times of economic decline, when demand for our products decreases, our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices in order to absorb their fixed costs. As a result, we may need to lower our prices and/or devote significant resources to marketing our products in order to remain competitive. Lower prices and/or higher costs would reduce our revenues and our profitability. Our future revenues and operating results may vary significantly from reporting period to reporting period. Our quarterly and annual revenues and earnings have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future. Our power generation equipment sales contracts stipulate customer-specific delivery terms that, coupled with other factors beyond our control, may result in uneven recognition of revenues and earnings over time. Customer-imposed delays can significantly impact the timing of revenue recognition. Due to our relatively large average contract size, our power generation equipment sales volume during any given period may be concentrated in relatively few orders, intensifying the magnitude of these fluctuations. Furthermore, some of our operating 14 Table of Contents costs are fixed. As a result, we may have limited ability to reduce our operating costs in response to unanticipated decreases in our revenues or the demand for our products in any given reporting period. Therefore, our operating results in any reporting period may not be indicative of our future performance. Because we must make significant estimates related to potential costs when we recognize revenue on a percentage-of-completion basis, these costs may change significantly from reporting period to reporting period based on new project information. For example, if labor efficiency experienced on a project is lower than we estimated at the outset of the project, the costs incurred on the project will increase and the percentage of completion may be reduced from earlier estimates. In addition, most of our power generation equipment revenues are based on fixed-price contracts, and the relative profitability can vary significantly between contracts. As a result, our profitability can vary from reporting period to reporting period based on the specific contracts being recognized. We may not be able to maintain or expand our business outside the United States because of numerous factors outside our control. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in doing business outside the United States including: • labor unrest; • regional economic uncertainty; • political instability; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • export duties and quotas; • expropriations; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; • current and changing regulatory environments; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • availability of financing; • unfavorable commercial terms and conditions; and • potential for adverse dispute resolution outcomes. These factors may result in a decline in revenues or profitability and could adversely affect our ability to maintain or expand our business outside the United States. We conduct our manufacturing and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States. We have manufacturing and distribution facilities and subcontractors in many countries outside of the United States including China, Poland, Romania and Mexico, and increasing our manufacturing footprint in low cost countries is an important element of our strategy. There are a number of risks associated with doing business internationally, including (a) exposure to local economic and political conditions, (b) social unrest such as risks of terrorism or other hostilities, (c) currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency controls, (d) export and import restrictions, and (e) the potential for shortages of trained labor. In particular, there has been social unrest in Mexico and any increased violence in or around our manufacturing facilities in Mexico could impact our business by disrupting our supply chain, and the delivery of products to customers. In addition, the increased violence in or around our manufacturing facilities in Mexico could present several risks to our employees who may be directly affected by the violence and may result in a decision by them to relocate from the area, or make it difficult for us to recruit or retain talented employees at our Mexican facilities. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on us is unpredictable and vary from country to country. Any such occurrences could be harmful to our business and our financial results. A substantial portion of our revenues is from sales of equipment for gas turbine power plants. During periods of declining construction of new gas turbine power plants, the market for our products is significantly diminished. The demand for our products depends on the continued construction of gas turbine power generation plants. The power generation equipment industry has experienced cyclical periods of slow growth or decline. In periods of decreased demand for new gas turbine power plants, our customers may be more likely to decrease expenditures on the types of products and systems that we supply and, as a result, our future revenues may decrease. These projects typically require funding from a healthy credit market as well. As long as credit markets are tight, funding could be difficult to obtain therefore delaying or even cancelling these types of projects entirely. A rise in the price or a shortage in the supply of natural gas could affect the profitability or operations of gas turbine power plants, which could adversely affect our future revenues. These and other factors may temper demand for our products. If in a particular geographic area prices of natural gas are so high or the supply of natural gas is so limited as to make the construction of new gas turbine power plants uneconomical in that geographic area, we may not derive any future revenues from projects in that geographic region unless and until those factors are reversed. 15 Table of Contents Environmental laws and regulations have played a part in the increased use of gas turbine technology in various jurisdictions. These laws and regulations may change or other jurisdictions may not adopt similar laws and regulations. Changes in existing laws and regulations could result in a reduction in the building and refurbishment of gas turbine power plants. In addition, stricter environmental regulation could result in our customers seeking new ways of generating electricity that do not require the use of our products. Furthermore, although gas turbine power plants have lower carbon dioxide emissions per unit of electricity provided than coal-fired power plants, emissions from gas turbine power plants remain a concern and attempts to reduce or regulate emissions could increase the cost of gas turbine power plants and result in our customers switching to alternative sources of power. Other current power technologies, improvements to these technologies and new alternative power technologies that compete or may compete in the future with gas turbine power plants could affect our sales and profitability. Any change in the power generation industry that results in a decline in the construction of new combined cycle power plants or a decline in the upgrading of existing simple cycle power plants to combined cycle power plants could materially adversely affect our sales. A small number of major customers account for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of any of these customers could negatively impact our business. We depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. In 2010, two customers accounted for approximately 47% of our consolidated revenues and approximately 24% of our backlog at the end of the year. In 2009, two customers accounted for approximately 23% of our consolidated revenues and approximately 23% of our backlog at the end of the year. Other than their obligations under firm orders placed in our backlog, none of our customers have a long-term contractual obligation to purchase any material amounts of products or services from us. All of our firm orders contain cancellation provisions, which permit us to recover only our costs and a portion of our anticipated profit if a customer cancels its order. If a customer elects to cancel, we would not realize the full amount of future revenues included in our backlog. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenues. Because our major customers represent a large part of our business, the loss of any of our major customers could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Several of our customers have the ability to internally source some of the products we manufacture. Any increase in this activity could reduce our sales. The dollar amount of our backlog, as stated at any time, is not necessarily indicative of our future revenues. When we receive a firm order for a project from a customer, it is added to our backlog. However, customers may cancel or delay projects for reasons beyond our control and we may be unable to replace any canceled orders with new orders. To the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenues could be affected. If a customer cancels an order, we may be reimbursed for the costs we have incurred. Typically, however, we have no contractual right to the full amount of the revenues reflected in our backlog contracts in the event of cancellation. In addition, projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. Revenue recognition occurs over extended periods of time and is subject to unanticipated delays. Fluctuations in our reported backlog levels also result from the fact that we may receive a small number of relatively large orders in any given reporting period that may be included in our backlog. Because of these large orders, our backlog in that reporting period may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent reporting periods. Our backlog, therefore, is not necessarily indicative of our future revenues or of long-term industry trends. The success of our business is partially dependent upon maintaining our safety record. Our ability to obtain new business and retain our current business, particularly in our Services Division, is partially dependent on our continuing ability to maintain a safety record that exceeds the industry average. If we fail to maintain superior safety performance, or if serious accidents occur in spite of our safety procedures, our revenues and results of operations, particularly in our Services Division, could be materially and adversely affected. We have been named as a defendant in asbestos personal injury lawsuits. The Company has been named as a defendant in a limited number of asbestos personal injury lawsuits. Neither the Company nor its predecessors ever mined, manufactured, produced or distributed asbestos fiber, the material that allegedly caused the injury underlying these actions. The bankruptcy court’s discharge order issued upon emergence from bankruptcy extinguished the claims made by all plaintiffs who had filed asbestos claims against the Company before that time. The Company believes the bankruptcy court’s discharge order should serve as a bar against any later claim filed against it, including any of its subsidiaries, based on alleged injury from asbestos at any time before emergence from bankruptcy. In any event in all of the asbestos cases finalized post-bankruptcy the Company has been successful in having such claims dismissed without liability. Findings of liability on our part in any of these cases that were filed against us after we emerged from bankruptcy that remain unresolved could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Efforts to increase our size through acquisitions will involve risks and could result in a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to actively pursue additional acquisition opportunities, some of which may be material to our business and financial performance. We may not be able to grow our business in the future through acquisitions for a number of reasons, including: • acquisition financing not being available on acceptable terms or at all; • encountering difficulties identifying and executing acquisitions; 16 Table of Contents • increased competition for targets, which may increase acquisition costs; • consolidation in our industry reducing the number of acquisition targets; and • competition laws and regulations preventing us from making certain acquisitions. In addition, there are potential risks associated with growing our business through acquisitions, including the failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of an acquisition. For example, with any past or future acquisition, there is the possibility that: • the business culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture; • technological and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not occur as expected; • management may be distracted from overseeing existing operations by the need to integrate acquired businesses; • we may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities; • unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating operations and systems; • we may fail to retain and assimilate employees of the acquired business; • we may experience problems in retaining customers; and • problems may arise in entering new markets in which we may have little or no experience. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is costly, and our ongoing operations may expose us to environmental liabilities. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment or human health and safety. We are subject to various U.S. federal statutes and the regulations implementing them, as well as similar laws and regulations at the state and local levels and in other countries in which we operate. If we fail to comply with environmental laws or regulations, we may be subject to significant liabilities for fines, penalties or damages, or lose or be denied significant operating permits. For example, if employees of our Services Division accidentally release hazardous substances while working at a customer’s facility, we may be subject to fines and costs of clean up as well as lawsuits by third parties. In addition, some environmental laws impose liability for the costs of investigating and remediating releases of hazardous substances without regard to fault and on a joint and several basis, so that in some circumstances we may be liable for costs attributable to hazardous substances released into the environment by others. A defect in our products could result in unanticipated warranty costs or product liability not covered by our insurance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We generally provide warranties for terms of three years or less on our products. These warranties require us to repair or replace faulty products. Warranty claims could result in significant unanticipated costs. The need to repair or replace products with design or manufacturing defects could also temporarily delay the sale of new products and adversely affect our reputation. In addition, we may be subject to product liability claims involving claims of personal injury or property damage. The sale and servicing of complex, large scale equipment used in a variety of locations and climates, and integrating a variety of manufactured and purchased components entails an inherent risk of disputes and liabilities relating to the operation and performance of the equipment and the health and safety of the workers who operate and come into contact with the machinery. Because our products are used primarily in power plants, claims could arise in different contexts, including the following: • fires, explosions and power surges that can result in significant property damage or personal injury; and • equipment failure that can result in personal injury or damage to other equipment in the power plant. For example, a failure of a filter house provided by us could result in significant damage to costly precision components of the gas turbine generator that takes in conditioned air from the filter house. This, in turn, could cause the owner of the gas turbine to seek to recover significant damages from us. The insurance policies we maintain to cover claims of this nature are subject to deductibles and recovery limitations as well as limitations on contingencies covered, and we may therefore suffer losses from these claims for which no insurance recovery is available. Expiration of the Price-Anderson Act’s indemnification authority could have adverse consequences on our Services Division. We provide services to the nuclear industry through our Services Division. The Price-Anderson Act promotes the nuclear industry by offering broad indemnification to commercial nuclear power plant operators and Department of Energy (“DOE”) for liabilities arising out of nuclear incidents at power plants licensed by the NRC and at DOE nuclear facilities. That indemnification protects not only the NRC licensee or DOE prime contractor, but also others like us who may be doing work under contract or subcontract for a licensed power plant or under a DOE prime contract. To date, there has been no occasion for a determination of whether the Price-Anderson Act’s indemnification provisions apply to all nuclear liabilities that might be incurred by a radioactive materials cleanup contractor. The recently enacted Energy Policy Act extended the Price-Anderson Act for an additional 20 years. A problem related to our provision of services at a nuclear facility could lead to a damage claim against us as to which we might not be entitled to indemnification. In addition, any well-publicized problem with those services, whether actual or perceived, could adversely affect our reputation and reduce demand for our services. 17 Table of Contents Our revenues would be adversely affected if we are unable to protect the proprietary design software programs that we use in our business. We have developed several proprietary software programs and data to help us design our products. Our ability to protect our proprietary rights to these programs and this data is important to our success. We protect these rights through the use of internal controls, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and other legal protections. The legal protections afforded to our proprietary rights and the precautions we have taken may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. We generally enter into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees and subcontractors with access to sensitive design software and technology. However, these contractual protections do not prevent independent third-parties from developing functionally equivalent or superior technologies, programs, products or professional services. Third parties may also infringe upon or misappropriate our proprietary rights and use them to develop competing products. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do United States laws. Our inability to protect our proprietary rights and enforce intellectual property rights through infringement or other enforcement proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were required to commence legal actions to enforce our intellectual property or proprietary rights or to defend ourselves against claims that we are infringing on the intellectual property or proprietary rights of others, we could incur substantial losses and/or costs and divert management’s attention from operations. A failure to attract and retain employees who fill key requirements of our business may make it difficult to sustain or expand operations. We must attract and retain highly qualified, experienced mechanical, design, structural and software engineers, service technicians, marketing and sales personnel and other key personnel to expand our operations. If we are unable to attract and retain necessary personnel, we may not be able to sustain or expand our operations. Our revenues may fall sharply in times of general economic contraction and will not necessarily rise in tandem with general economic expansion. Orders for new electrical power generation capacity are placed by our customers with long lead times. Consequently, our bookings and revenues may rise or fall sharply as total industry orders tend to follow pronounced cycles of general expansion and contraction. During a contraction phase, limited investment in new projects, deferrals of planned projects and project cancelations may significantly reduce our potential recognition of revenues and profits. At the end of an expansion phase, the existence of excess capacity will negatively affect power prices which results in a reduction in new orders. In addition to being cyclical in nature, our domestic revenues do not correlate precisely with changes in actual or forecasted new capacity due to timing differences in revenue recognition. Demand for our products and services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic slowdowns and reductions in private industry and government spending. If economic conditions deteriorate, our revenues, profits and our financial condition may be adversely affected. The industries we serve historically have been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general slowdowns in the domestic and international economies. Consequently, our results of operations have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate depending on the demand for products and services from these industries. Due to the recent economic slowdown, many of our clients may face budget shortfalls or may delay capital spending that may decrease the overall demand for our products and services. Our clients may find it more difficult to obtain project financing due to limitations on the availability of credit and other uncertainties in the global credit markets. In addition, our clients may demand better pricing terms and their ability to timely pay our invoices may still be affected by the recent economic slowdown. If private industry and government spending are reduced, then our revenues, net income and overall financial condition may be adversely affected. Systems and information technology interruption could adversely impact our ability to operate. We depend on our information technology systems for many aspects of our business. Our business may be adversely affected if our systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand our systems to meet our changing needs. Any damage, delay or loss of critical data associated with our systems may delay or prevent certain operations and may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The supply and cost of materials we use in manufacturing our products fluctuates and could increase our operating costs. Steel is a significant portion of the raw materials used in our products. Local shortages of steel plate sometimes arise and it is possible that an adequate supply of steel will not continue to be available in all locations on terms acceptable to us. The materials we use in our products are subject to price fluctuations that we cannot control. Changes in the cost of raw materials can have a significant effect on our gross margins. Rapid increases in material prices are difficult to pass through to customers. If we are unable to pass on these higher costs, our results of operations and financial condition could decline. 18 Table of Contents Our participation in multi-employer pension plans could adversely impact our future earnings. In addition to our defined benefit savings plan, we also participate in several multi-employer pension plans throughout the United States. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 may require additional funding for multi-employer plans that could cause us to be subject to higher cash contributions in the future. Additionally, market conditions and the number of participating employers remaining in each plan may affect the funded status of multi-employer plans and consequently any company withdrawal liability, if applicable. We continue to monitor and assess any full and partial withdrawal liability implications associated with these plans. Risk Factors Related to Our Liquidity and Capital Resources Volatility and uncertainty of the credit markets may negatively impact us. We intend to finance our existing operations and initiatives with existing cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from operations and potential borrowings under our $150 million Credit Facility (“Credit Facility”). If adverse national and international economic conditions continue or deteriorate further, it is possible that we may not be able to fully draw upon our existing Credit Facility and we may not be able to obtain new financing on favorable terms. In addition, continued deterioration in the credit markets could adversely affect the ability of many of our customers to pay us on time and the ability of many of our suppliers to meet our needs on a competitive basis. If we cannot access necessary additional funds on acceptable terms, our business and operations may be negatively impacted. Our inability to obtain adequate surety bonding or letters of credit could reduce our ability to bid on new work, which could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business prospects. In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance and surety bonds to clients and may be required to provide letters of credit. These bonds and letters of credit provide credit support for the client if we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If security is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain a bond or letter of credit on terms commercially acceptable to us, we may not be able to pursue that project. In addition, bonding may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significant additional cost as a result of general conditions that affect the insurance and bonding markets. Surety bonds and letters of credit may cease to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. We are vulnerable to reductions in our liquidity because of the capital-intensive nature of our business. Our operations could require us to utilize large sums of working capital, sometimes on short notice and sometimes without assurance of recovery of the expenditures. Circumstances or events that could create large cash outflows include a surge in orders for power generation equipment that require working capital for execution, losses resulting from fixed-price contracts, environmental liabilities, litigation risks, unexpected costs or losses resulting from acquisitions, contract initiation or completion delays, client payment problems and product liability claims. If we encounter significant working capital requirements as a result of these or other factors, we may not have sufficient liquidity or the credit capacity to meet all of our cash needs and this could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The restrictions and covenants contained in our Credit Facility limit our ability to borrow additional money, sell assets and make acquisitions. Compliance with these restrictions and covenants may limit our ability to implement elements of our business strategy. Our Credit Facility contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that may pose a constraint to us by limiting our ability and that of our subsidiaries to: • borrow money or make capital expenditures; • incur liens; • pay dividends or make other restricted payments; • merge or sell assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • make acquisitions. In addition, our Credit Facility contains other restrictive covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios, including leverage, fixed charges coverage and minimum liquidity. The facility includes mandatory repayment provisions that will require us to repay our indebtedness with proceeds from certain asset sales, certain debt issuances and certain insurance casualty events. If we are unable to remain in compliance with our financial covenants currently in effect under our Credit Facility or obtain additional amendments or waivers from our lenders, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures and business acquisitions, sell assets, restructure or refinance our indebtedness, decline certain business opportunities from customers or seek additional capital. 19 Table of Contents If we were required to write down our goodwill or long-lived assets, our results of operations and stockholders’ equity could be materially adversely affected. We have approximately $80.4 million of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010. Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired in a business combination. We are required to review goodwill for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other, using a two-step impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount of a goodwill impairment loss. The first step of the test compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of the impairment loss, if any. Both steps of goodwill impairment testing involve significant estimates. Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization, are evaluated for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through the estimated future cash flows from the use of these assets. If we were required to write down our goodwill or long-lived assets, our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected. We are exposed to market risks from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We are subject to market risk exposure related to changes in interest rates and from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Portions of our operations are located in foreign jurisdictions and a portion of our billings is paid in foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets could therefore cause fluctuations in those revenues derived from foreign operations. For example, a decrease in the value against the U.S. dollar of the foreign currency we receive for a project as to which a significant portion of our costs are incurred in U.S. dollars would adversely affect our revenues, as expressed in U.S. dollars, and our net income from that project. In addition, sales of products and services are affected by the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. Changes in foreign currency rates can also affect the costs of our products purchased or manufactured outside the United States. Changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Risk Factors Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock, which is listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market, may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations and our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares of common stock at or above the purchase price paid. The market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including the following: • the risk factors described in this Item 1A; • the significant concentration of ownership of our common stock in the hands of a small number of institutional investors; • a shortfall in operating revenue or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry; • general conditions in our customers’ industries; and • general conditions in the security markets. Some companies that have volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to security class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise, either by us, a member of management or a major stockholder, or the perception that these sales could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Because we do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase shares of common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their shares after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our shares. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 