Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by one or more of the following factors, any of which could cause actual results to vary materially from historical and current results or anticipated future results. Risk Factors Related to Our Operations If the U.S. were to change its support of nuclear power, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The U.S. government has been supportive of increased investment in nuclear power as it represents approximately 20% of the total power generating capacity in the U.S. However, if the federal government changed its policy or if public acceptance of nuclear technology declines, demand for nuclear power could be negatively affected and potentially increase the regulation of the nuclear power industry. The Japan nuclear accident in March 2011 led to the establishment of the NRC’s Japan Task Force which concluded that there was no imminent risk from continued operation and licensing activities and made recommendations for safety and emergency preparedness. The NRC is currently considering those recommendations. We expect to see additional long-term opportunities resulting from these recommendations; however, any reduced demand for nuclear power or increased regulation could adversely affect our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. 12 Table of Contents If our costs exceed the estimates we use to set the fixed-prices of our contracts, our earnings will be reduced. The majority of our gas turbine auxiliary equipment sales contracts and a portion of our nuclear and industrial services contracts are entered into on a fixed-price basis. These fixed-price contracts have a limited ability to recover any cost overruns. Contract prices are established based in part on our projected costs, which are subject to a number of assumptions. The costs that we incur in connection with each contract can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections. Because of the large scale and complexity of our contracts, unanticipated changes may occur, such as customer budget decisions, design changes, delays in receiving permits and cost increases, as well as delays in delivery of our products. We often are contractually subject to liquidated damages for late delivery. Unanticipated cost increases or delays may occur as a result of several factors, including: • increases in the cost of commodities (primarily steel plate), labor or freight; • unanticipated technical problems; and • suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform, requiring modified execution plans or re-work. Cost increases or overruns that we cannot pass on to our customers or our payment of liquidated damages under our contracts will lower our earnings. Increases in commodity prices may adversely affect our gross margins. If we are unable to control the quality or timely production of products manufactured or services provided by our subcontractors, our reputation could be adversely affected and we could lose customers. If we are unable to recover any advance progress payments made to subcontractors, our profitability would be adversely affected. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture and assemble a substantial portion of our products as well as provide some specialty services. Subcontractors account for a significant percentage of our manufacturing costs. The quality and timing of production by our subcontractors is not totally under our control. Our subcontractors may not always meet the level of quality control and the delivery schedules required by our customers. The failure of our subcontractors to produce quality products in a timely manner could adversely affect our reputation and result in the cancellation of orders for our products, significant warranty and repair costs and the loss of customers. Alternatively, we could be required to move subcontract manufacturing to other locations, resulting in increased costs. In addition, we make advance progress payments to subcontractors in anticipation of their completion of our orders. We may be unable to recover those advances if a subcontractor fails to complete an order, which may adversely affect our profitability. Our future revenue and operating results may vary significantly from reporting period to reporting period. Our quarterly and annual revenue and earnings have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future. Our gas turbine auxiliary equipment sales contracts stipulate customer-specific delivery terms that, coupled with other factors beyond our control, may result in uneven recognition of revenue and earnings over time. Customer-imposed delays can significantly impact the timing of revenue recognition. Due to our relatively large average contract size, our gas turbine auxiliary equipment sales volume during any given period may be concentrated in relatively few orders, intensifying the magnitude of these fluctuations. Furthermore, some of our operating costs are fixed. As a result, we may have limited ability to reduce our operating costs in response to unanticipated decreases in our revenue or the demand for our products in any given reporting period. Therefore, our operating results in any reporting period may not be indicative of our future performance. Because we must make significant estimates related to potential costs when we recognize revenue on a percentage-of-completion basis, these costs may change significantly from reporting period to reporting period based on new project information. For example, if labor efficiency experienced on a project is lower than we estimated at the outset of the project, the costs incurred on the project will increase and the percentage of completion may be reduced from earlier estimates. In addition, most of our gas turbine auxiliary equipment revenue is based on fixed-price contracts, and the relative profitability can vary significantly between contracts. As a result, our profitability can vary from reporting period to reporting period based on the specific contract mix. We may not be able to maintain or expand our business outside the U.S. because of numerous factors outside our control. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in doing business outside the U.S. including: • labor unrest; • regional economic uncertainty; • sovereign debt issues including the European debt crisis; • political instability including unrest in the Middle East; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • export duties and quotas; 13 Table of Contents • expropriations; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; • current and changing regulatory environments; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • availability of financing; • unfavorable commercial terms and conditions; and • potential for adverse dispute resolution outcomes. These factors may impact our ability to meet product delivery commitments in foreign countries that could result in a decline in revenue or profitability and could adversely affect our ability to maintain or expand our business outside the U.S. We conduct our manufacturing operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to risks associated with doing business outside the U.S. We have manufacturing facilities and subcontractors in many countries outside of the U.S. including China, Poland, Romania, the Middle East and Mexico, and increasing our manufacturing footprint in low cost countries is an important element of our strategy. There are a number of risks associated with doing business internationally, including (a) exposure to local economic and political conditions, (b) social unrest such as risks of terrorism or other hostilities, (c) currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency controls, (d) export and import restrictions, and (e) the potential for shortages of trained labor. In particular, there has been social unrest in the Middle East and Mexico and any increased violence in or around our manufacturing facilities could impact our business by disrupting our supply chain, and the delivery of products to customers. In addition, the increased violence in or around our manufacturing facilities could present several risks to our employees who may be directly affected by the violence and may result in a decision by them to relocate from the area, or make it difficult for us or our subcontractors to recruit or retain talented employees. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on us is unpredictable and vary from country to country. Any such occurrences could be harmful to our business and our financial results. A substantial portion of our revenue is from sales of equipment for gas turbine power plants. During periods of declining construction of new gas turbine power plants, the market for our products is significantly diminished. The demand for our products depends on the continued construction of gas turbine power generation plants. The power generation equipment industry has experienced cyclical periods of slow growth or decline. In periods of decreased demand for new gas turbine power plants, our customers may be more likely to decrease expenditures on the types of products and systems that we supply and, as a result, our future revenue may decrease. These projects typically require funding from a healthy credit market as well. As long as credit markets are tight, funding could be difficult to obtain therefore delaying or even cancelling these types of projects entirely. A rise in the price or a shortage in the supply of natural gas could affect the profitability or operations of gas turbine power plants, which could adversely affect our future revenue. These and other factors may temper demand for our products. If in a particular geographic area prices of natural gas are so high or the supply of natural gas is so limited as to make the construction of new gas turbine power plants uneconomical in that geographic area, we may not derive any future revenue from projects in that geographic region unless and until those factors are reversed. Environmental laws and regulations have played a part in the increased use of gas turbine technology in various jurisdictions. These laws and regulations may change or other jurisdictions may not adopt similar laws and regulations. Changes in existing laws and regulations could result in a reduction in the building and refurbishment of gas turbine power plants. In addition, stricter environmental regulation could result in our customers seeking new ways of generating electricity that do not require the use of our products. Furthermore, although gas turbine power plants have lower carbon dioxide emissions per unit of electricity provided than coal-fired power plants, emissions from gas turbine power plants remain a concern and attempts to reduce or regulate emissions could increase the cost of gas turbine power plants and result in our customers switching to alternative sources of power. Other current power technologies, improvements to these technologies and new alternative power technologies that compete or may compete in the future with gas turbine power plants could affect our sales and profitability. Any change in the power generation industry that results in a decline in the construction of new combined cycle and simple cycle power plants or a decline in the upgrading of existing simple cycle power plants to combined cycle power plants could materially adversely affect our sales. A small number of major customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of any of these customers could negatively impact our business. We depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. In 2011, three customers accounted for approximately 50% of our consolidated revenue and approximately 46% of our backlog at the end of the year. In 2010, three customers accounted for approximately 60% of our consolidated revenue and approximately 36% of our backlog at the end of the 14 Table of Contents year. In 2009, four customers accounted for approximately 52% of our consolidated revenue and approximately 54% of our backlog at the end of the year. Other than their obligations under firm orders placed in our backlog, none of our customers have a long-term contractual obligation to purchase any material amounts of products or services from us. All of our firm orders contain cancellation provisions, which permit us to recover only our costs and a portion of our anticipated profit if a customer cancels its order. If a customer elects to cancel, we would not realize the full amount of future revenue included in our backlog. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. Because our major customers represent a large part of our business, the loss of any of our major customers could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Several of our customers have the ability to internally source some of the products we manufacture. Any increase in this activity could reduce our sales. Our business volumes with each of our largest customers are highly dependent on power generation capacity additions for our Products Division and on operations and maintenance budgets for domestic utilities for our Services Division. Fluctuations in any of these factors could materially adversely impact our results. The dollar amount of our backlog, as stated at any time, is not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. When we receive a firm order for a project from a customer, it is added to our backlog. However, customers may cancel or delay projects for reasons beyond our control and we may be unable to replace any canceled orders with new orders. To the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. If a customer cancels an order, we may be reimbursed for the costs we have incurred. Typically, however, we have no contractual right to the full amount of the revenue reflected in our backlog contracts in the event of cancellation. In addition, projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. Revenue recognition occurs over extended periods of time and is subject to unanticipated delays. Fluctuations in our reported backlog levels also result from the fact that we may receive a small number of relatively large orders in any given reporting period that may be included in our backlog. Because of these large orders, our backlog in that reporting period may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent reporting periods. Our backlog, therefore, is not necessarily indicative of our future revenue or of long-term industry trends. The success of our business is partially dependent upon maintaining our safety record. Our ability to obtain new business and retain our current business, particularly in our Services Division, is partially dependent on our continuing ability to maintain a safety record that exceeds the industry average. If we fail to maintain superior safety performance, or if serious accidents occur in spite of our safety procedures, our revenue and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our dependence on suppliers and subcontractors could expose us to the risk of loss in our operations. We rely significantly on suppliers to obtain necessary materials and subcontractors to perform manufacturing and services. Although we are not dependent on any single supplier or subcontractor, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers or subcontractors could negatively impact our operations. The risk of a lack of available suppliers or subcontractors may be heightened as a result of recent market and economic conditions. To the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, we could experience losses in the performance of our operations. Our former operating unit has been named as a defendant in asbestos personal injury lawsuits. Our former operating unit has been named as a defendant in a limited number of asbestos personal injury lawsuits. Neither we nor our predecessors ever mined, manufactured, produced or distributed asbestos fiber, the material that allegedly caused the injury underlying these actions. The bankruptcy court’s discharge order issued upon emergence from bankruptcy extinguished the claims made by all plaintiffs who had filed asbestos claims against us before that time. We believe the bankruptcy court’s discharge order should serve as a bar against any later claim filed against us, including any of our subsidiaries, based on alleged injury from asbestos at any time before emergence from bankruptcy. In all of the asbestos cases finalized post-bankruptcy, we have been successful in having such claims dismissed without liability. Findings of liability on our part in any of these cases that were filed against us after we emerged from bankruptcy that remain unresolved could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Efforts to increase our size through acquisitions will involve risks that could result in a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to actively pursue additional acquisition opportunities, some of which may be material to our business and financial performance. We may not be able to grow our business in the future through acquisitions for a number of reasons, including: • acquisition financing not being available on acceptable terms or at all; • encountering difficulties identifying and executing acquisitions; • increased competition for targets, which may increase acquisition costs; • consolidation in our industry reducing the number of acquisition targets; and 15 Table of Contents • competition laws and regulations preventing us from making certain acquisitions. In addition, there are potential risks associated with growing our business through acquisitions, including the failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of an acquisition. For example, with any past or future acquisition, there is the possibility that: • the business culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture; • technological and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not occur as expected; • management may be distracted from overseeing existing operations by the need to integrate acquired businesses; • we may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities; • unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating operations and systems; • we may fail to retain and assimilate employees of the acquired business; • we may experience problems in retaining customers; and • problems may arise in entering new markets in which we may have little or no experience. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is costly, and our ongoing operations may expose us to environmental liabilities. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment or human health and safety. We are subject to various U.S. federal statutes and the regulations implementing them, as well as similar laws and regulations at the state and local levels and in other countries in which we operate. If we fail to comply with environmental laws or regulations, we may be subject to significant liabilities for fines, penalties or damages, or lose or be denied significant operating permits. For example, if employees of our Services Division accidentally release hazardous substances while working at a customer’s facility, we may be subject to fines and costs of clean up as well as lawsuits by third parties. In addition, some environmental laws impose liability for the costs of investigating and remediating releases of hazardous substances without regard to fault and on a joint and several basis, so that in some circumstances, we may be liable for costs attributable to hazardous substances released into the environment by others. A defect in our products could result in unanticipated warranty costs or product liability not covered by our insurance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We generally provide warranties for terms of three years or less on our products. These warranties require us to repair or replace faulty products. Warranty claims could result in significant unanticipated costs. The need to repair or replace products with design or manufacturing defects could also temporarily delay the sale of new products and adversely affect our reputation. In addition, we may be subject to product liability claims involving claims of personal injury or property damage. The sale and servicing of complex, large scale equipment used in a variety of locations and climates, and integrating a variety of manufactured and purchased components entails an inherent risk of disputes and liabilities relating to the operation and performance of the equipment and the health and safety of the workers who operate and come into contact with the machinery. Because our products are used primarily in power plants, claims could arise in different contexts, including the following: • fires, explosions and power surges that can result in significant property damage or personal injury; and • equipment failure that can result in personal injury or damage to other equipment in the power plant. For example, a failure of a filter house provided by us could result in significant damage to costly precision components of the gas turbine generator that takes in conditioned air from the filter house. This, in turn, could cause the owner of the gas turbine to seek to recover significant damages from us. The insurance policies we maintain to cover claims of this nature are subject to deductibles and recovery limitations as well as limitations on contingencies covered, and we may, therefore, suffer losses from these claims for which no insurance recovery is available. Expiration of the Price-Anderson Act’s indemnification authority could have adverse consequences on our Services Division. We provide services to the nuclear industry through our Services Division. The Price-Anderson Act promotes the nuclear industry by offering broad indemnification to commercial nuclear power plant operators and the Department of Energy (“DOE”) for liabilities arising out of nuclear incidents at power plants licensed by the NRC and at DOE nuclear facilities. That indemnification protects not only the NRC licensee or DOE prime contractor, but also others like us who may be doing work under contract or subcontract for a licensed power plant or under a DOE prime contract. To date, there has been no occasion for a determination of whether the Price- 16 Table of Contents Anderson Act’s indemnification provisions apply to all nuclear liabilities that might be incurred by a radioactive materials cleanup contractor. The recently enacted Energy Policy Act extended the Price-Anderson Act for an additional 20 years. A problem related to our provision of services at a nuclear facility could lead to a damage claim against us for which we might not be entitled to indemnification. In addition, any well-publicized problem with those services, whether actual or perceived, could adversely affect our reputation and reduce demand for our services. Our revenue would be adversely affected if our patents and other intellectual property rights are unable to protect our proprietary products. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights to the technologies and know-how used in our proprietary products and software programs. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of trade secret, unfair competition and similar laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot provide assurance that we can meaningfully protect all of our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology, or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. If we were required to commence legal actions to enforce our intellectual property or proprietary rights or to defend ourselves against claims that we are infringing on the intellectual property or proprietary rights of others, we could incur substantial losses and/or costs and divert management’s attention from operations. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel, including engineers, skilled workers and key officers, could have an adverse effect on us. Our ability to attract and retain qualified professional and/or skilled personnel in accordance with our needs, either through direct hiring, subcontracting or acquisition of other firms employing such professionals, is an important factor in determining our future success. The market for these professionals is competitive, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain needed personnel. Our ability to successfully execute our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified, experienced mechanical, design, structural and software engineers, service technicians, marketing and sales personnel in our Products and Services Divisions. Demand for these workers can at times be high and the supply extremely limited. Our success is also highly dependent upon the continued services of our key officers, and we do not maintain key employee insurance on any of our executive officers. If we are unable to retain qualified personnel, the roles and responsibilities of those employees will need to be filled, which may require that we devote time and resources to identifying, hiring and integrating new employees. In addition, the failure to attract and retain key employees, including officers, could impair our ability to sustain or expand our operations, to provide services to our customers and conduct our business effectively. Demand for our products and services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic slowdowns and reductions in private industry and government spending. In times of general economic contraction, our revenue, profits and our financial condition may be adversely affected and will not necessarily rise in tandem with general economic expansion. The industries we serve historically have been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general slowdowns in the domestic and international economies. Consequently, our results of operations have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate depending on the demand for products and services from these industries. Orders for new electrical power generation capacity are placed by our customers with long lead times. Consequently, our bookings and revenue may rise or fall sharply as total industry orders tend to follow pronounced cycles of general expansion and contraction. During a contraction phase, limited investment in new projects, deferrals of planned projects and project cancelations may significantly reduce our potential recognition of revenue and profits. At the end of an expansion phase, the existence of excess capacity will negatively affect power prices which results in a reduction in new orders. In addition to being cyclical in nature, our revenue does not correlate precisely with changes in actual or forecasted new capacity due to timing differences in revenue recognition. During periods of declining demand for power, many of our customers may face budget shortfalls or may delay capital spending that may decrease the overall demand for our products and services. Our customers may find it more difficult to obtain project financing due to limitations on the availability of credit and other uncertainties in the global credit markets. In addition, our customers may demand better pricing terms and their ability to timely pay our invoices may still be affected by the recent economic slowdown. If private industry and government spending are reduced, then our revenue, net income and overall financial condition may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Systems and information technology interruption could adversely impact our ability to operate. We depend on our information technology systems for many aspects of our business. Our business may be adversely affected if our systems are disrupted by security breaches or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand our systems to meet our changing needs. For example, we are in the process of converting to a new enterprise resource planning system in our Products Division and a failure to successfully implement such new system could adversely affect our business. Any damage, delay or loss of critical data associated with our systems may delay or prevent certain operations and may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The supply and cost of materials we use in manufacturing our products fluctuates and could increase our operating costs. Steel is a significant portion of the raw materials used in our products. Local shortages of steel plate sometimes arise and it is possible that an adequate supply of steel will not continue to be available in all locations on terms acceptable to us. The materials we use in our products are subject to price fluctuations that we cannot control. Changes in the cost of raw materials can have a significant effect on our gross margins. Rapid increases in material prices are difficult to pass through to customers. If we are unable to pass on these higher costs, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Our participation in multiemployer pension plans could adversely impact our liquidity and results of operations. In addition to our defined contribution plan, we also contribute to over 150 multiemployer pension plans throughout the U.S. where we retain project-based craft labor. We believe that our responsibility for potential withdrawal liabilities associated with participating in multiemployer pension plans is limited because the building and construction trades exemption should apply to the substantial majority of our plan contributions. However, pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and other applicable law, we are also exposed to other potential liabilities associated with plans that are underfunded. As of December 31, 2011, we had been notified that certain pension plans were in critical funding status. Currently, certain plans are developing, or have developed, a rehabilitation plan that may call for a reduction in participant benefits or an increase in future employer contributions. Therefore, in the future, we could be responsible for potential surcharges, excise taxes and/or additional contributions related to these plans which could impact our liquidity and results of operations. Additionally, market conditions and the number of participating employers remaining in each plan may result in a reorganization, insolvency or mass withdrawal that could materially affect the funded status of multiemployer plans and our potential withdrawal liability, if applicable. We continue to actively monitor, assess and take steps to limit our potential exposure to any surcharges, excise taxes, additional contributions and/or withdrawal liabilities. However, we cannot, at this time, estimate the full amount, or even the range, of this potential exposure. Foreign exchange risks may affect our ability to realize a profit from certain projects or to obtain projects. We generally attempt to denominate our contracts in U.S. Dollars or in the currencies of our expenditures. However, we do enter into contracts that subject us to foreign exchange risks, particularly to the extent contract revenues are denominated in a currency different than the contract costs. We may seek to minimize our exposure from foreign exchange risks by limiting foreign currency contracts to those currencies where we have ongoing operating expenditures or entering into hedge contracts if there are limited ongoing expenditures in the same currencies. However, these actions may not always eliminate all foreign exchange risks. New legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays to our customers and our operations. Members of the U.S Congress and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) are reviewing more stringent regulation of hydraulic fracturing, a technology which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. Both the U.S. Congress and the EPA are studying whether there is any link between hydraulic fracturing and soil or ground water contamination or any impact on public health or the environment. Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states have adopted and others are considering adopting regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing. Any new laws, regulation or permitting requirements regarding hydraulic fracturing could lead to delays in the construction of new gas turbine power plants and/or increased operating costs for existing gas turbine power plants which could negatively impact demand for our products. We are subject to anti-bribery laws in the countries in which we operate. Failure to comply with these laws could result in our becoming subject to penalties and the disruption of our business activities. Many of the countries in which we transact business have laws that restrict the offer or payment of anything of value to government officials or other persons with the intent of gaining business or favorable government action. We are subject to these laws in addition to being governed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act restricting these types of activities. In addition to prohibiting certain bribery-related activity with foreign officials and other persons, these laws provide for recordkeeping and reporting obligations. 18 Table of Contents Any failure by us, our subcontractors, agents or others who work for us on our behalf to comply with these legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties. The failure to comply with these legal and regulatory obligations could also result in the disruption of our business activities. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could increase our tax burden and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax rate on our earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. We continue to assess the impact of various legislative proposals, including U.S. federal and state proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties, that could result in a material increase in our taxes. We cannot predict whether any specific legislation will be enacted or the terms of any such legislation. However, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on us, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Work disruptions resulting from the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements or otherwise could result in increased operating costs and affect our operating performance. Certain of our temporary Services Division craft employees are represented by labor unions with which we have collective bargaining agreements. There can be no assurance that we will not experience labor disruptions associated with a lengthy strike or the expiration or renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements or other work stoppage at our Mexico facility or at our customer locations, which could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. Risk Factors Related to Our Liquidity and Capital Resources Volatility and uncertainty of the credit markets may negatively impact us. We intend to finance our existing operations and initiatives with existing cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from operations and potential borrowings under our new $100 million Credit Facility (“New Credit Facility”) entered into on February 21, 2012. If adverse national and international economic conditions continue or deteriorate further, it is possible that we may not be able to fully draw upon our New Credit Facility and we may not be able to obtain new financing on favorable terms. In addition, deterioration in the credit markets could adversely affect the ability of many of our customers to pay us on time and the ability of many of our suppliers to meet our needs on a competitive basis. If we cannot access necessary additional funds on acceptable terms, our business and operations may be negatively impacted. Our inability to obtain adequate surety bonding or letters of credit could reduce our ability to bid on new work, which could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and business prospects. In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance and surety bonds to customers and may be required to provide letters of credit. These bonds and letters of credit provide credit support for the client if we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If security is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain a bond or letter of credit on terms commercially acceptable to us, we may not be able to pursue that project. In addition, bonding may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significant additional cost as a result of general conditions that affect the insurance and bonding markets. Surety bonds and letters of credit may cease to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The limitations and covenants contained in our New Credit Facility could constrain our ability to borrow additional money, sell assets and make acquisitions. Compliance with these restrictions and covenants may limit our ability to fully implement elements of our business strategy. Our New Credit Facility contains a number of limitations and covenants that could limit our ability and that of our subsidiaries to: • borrow money or make capital expenditures; • incur liens; • pay dividends or make other restricted payments; • merge or sell assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • make acquisitions. In addition, our New Credit Facility contains other covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios, including total leverage and interest coverage. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to remain in compliance with our financial covenants currently in effect under our New Credit Facility or obtain additional amendments or waivers from our lenders, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures and business acquisitions, restructure or refinance our indebtedness, decline certain business opportunities from customers or seek additional capital. If we were required to write down our goodwill or other indefinite lived long-term assets, our results of operations and stockholders’ equity could be materially adversely affected. We have approximately $86.5 million of goodwill and indefinite lived long-term assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011. We are required to review goodwill and indefinite lived long-term assets for impairment at least annually in accordance generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. If our results of operations decline, an impairment may be triggered. If we were required to write down our goodwill or long-lived assets, our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected. We are exposed to market risks from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We are subject to market risk exposure related to changes in interest rates and from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Portions of our operations are located in foreign jurisdictions and a portion of our billings is paid in foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets could therefore cause fluctuations in those revenues derived from foreign operations. For example, a decrease in the value against the U.S. dollar of the foreign currency we receive for a project as to which a significant portion of our costs are incurred in U.S. dollars would adversely affect our revenue, as expressed in U.S. dollars, and our net income from that project. In addition, sales of products and services are affected by the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. Changes in foreign currency rates can also affect the costs of our products purchased or manufactured outside the U.S. Changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Concerns regarding the European debt crisis and market perceptions concerning the instability of the euro, the potential re-introduction of individual currencies within the Eurozone, or the potential dissolution of the euro entirely, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financing. As a result of the debt crisis with respect to countries in Europe, in particular most recently in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility (the “EFSF”) and the European Financial Stability Mechanism (the “EFSM”) to provide funding to countries using the Euro as their currency (the “Eurozone”) that are in financial difficulty and seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent financial stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, which will be activated by mutual agreement, to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries after June 2013. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. These concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. Should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. In addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in Europe and globally could have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally, and more specifically on the ability of our customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials and on the demand for our products. Risk Factors Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock, which is listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market, may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations and our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares of common stock at or above the purchase price paid. The market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including the following: • the risk factors described in this Item 1A; • the significant concentration of ownership of our common stock in the hands of a small number of institutional investors; 20 Table of Contents • a shortfall in operating revenue or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry; • general conditions in our customers’ industries; and • general conditions in the security markets. Some companies that have volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to security class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise, either by us, a member of management or a major stockholder, or the perception that these sales could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We have not paid dividends in the past. Investors seeking guaranteed cash dividends should not purchase shares of our common stock. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock in the past and have retained earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. Accordingly, investors seeking guaranteed cash dividends should not purchase our shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 