Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. Forward looking statements in this report and those made from time to time by us through our senior management are made under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements concerning the expected future revenues, earnings or financial results or concerning project plans, performance, or development of products and services, as well as other estimates related to future operations are necessarily only estimates of future results and there can be no assurance that actual results will not materially differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements represent management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. We do not under take any obligation to update forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We need to raise additional capital. If we are unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms and in a timely manner, we will not be able to execute our business plan and we could be forced to restrict or cease our operations. We will need to raise additional funds to meet our anticipated expenses so that we can execute our business plan. We expect to incur substantial and increasing net losses for the foreseeable future as we increase our spending to execute our development programs. Our auditors have expressed in their audit report that there is substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. In recent months, we have entered into an investment agreement, pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell up to 12,815,000 shares of common stock of the Company, for an aggregate subscription price of up to $3.6 million and warrants to purchase up to 19,222,500 shares of common stock.However, we will still need to secure additional funds to carry outour plan of operations. We may not be able to raise additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on favorable terms and in a timely fashion, we will be unable to execute our business plan and we will be forced to restrict or cease our operations. Assuming we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities, these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges (including registrations rights) senior to those of the rights of our common stock and our stockholders will experience additional dilution. Our business in the foreseeable future will be based on technology licensed from Ramot and if this license were to be terminated for any reason, including failure to make required payments, we would need to change our business strategy and we may be forced to cease our operations. Agreements we have with Ramot impose on us royalty payment obligations. If we fail to comply with these obligations, Ramot may have the right to terminate the license. If Ramot elects to terminate our license, we would need to change our business strategy and we may be forced to cease our operations. We currently do not owe Ramot any overdue payments. Our company has a history of losses and we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We had no revenues for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 or December 31, 2009. As a development stage company, we are in the early stages of executing our business plan. Our ability to operate successfully is materially uncertain and our operations are subject to significant risks inherent in a developing business enterprise. Most notably, we do not expect that any therapies resulting from our or our collaborators’ research and development efforts will be commercially available for a significant number of years, if at all. We also do not expect to generate revenues from strategic partnerships or otherwise for at least the next 12 months, and likely longer. Fu rthermore, we expect to incur substantial and increasing operating losses for the next several years as we increase our spending to execute our development programs. These losses are expected to have an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity, and we may never achieve profitability. 14 The field of stem cell therapy is new and our development efforts may not yield an effective treatment of human diseases. Except for bone marrow transplants for neoplastic disease, the field of stem cell therapy remains largely untested in the clinical setting. Our intended cell therapeutic treatment methods for ALS and PD involve a new approach that has never been proven to work in humans. We are still conducting experimental testing in animals for our treatment and are going to conduct clinical trials, which, together with other stem cell therapies, may ultimately prove ineffective in treatment of human diseases. If we cannot successfully implement our stem cell therapy in human testing, we would need to change our business strategy and we may be forced to cease our operations. We have limited experience in conducting and managing clinical trials and the application process necessary to obtain regulatory approvals. The Israeli Ministry of Health (MOH) has granted us clearance for a Phase I/II clinical trial using our autologous NurOwn™ stem cell therapy in patients with ALS, often referred to as Lou Gehrig's Disease. We are the first company to receive clearance from the MOH for a differentiated stem cell-based therapy in Israel. The Phase I/II clinical trial will be conducted in cooperation with the world-renowned Hadassah Medical Center and will be conducted by a joint team headed by the principal investigator Dimitrios Karussis, M.D., Ph.D., of the Hadassah Medical Center, and a scientific team from the Company headed by Prof. E ldad Melamed. The initial phase of the study is designed to establish the safety of NurOwn™ and will later be expanded to assess efficacy. The trial is expected to begin following validation of sterility tests requested by the MOH and screening of patients for the trial. Our limited experience in conducting and managing clinical trials and the application process necessary to obtain regulatory approvals might prevent us from successfully designing or implementing a preclinical study or clinical trial. Cell-based therapy products, in general, may be susceptible to various risks, including undesirable and unintended side effects, unintended immune system responses, inadequate therapeutic efficacy or other characteristics that may prevent or limit their approval by regulators or commercial use. Many companies in the industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, despite promising results in earlier trials. If our clinical trials are unsuccessful, or if we do not complete our clinical trials, we may not receive regulatory approval for or be able to commercialize our product candidate s. If we do not succeed in conducting and managing our preclinical development activities or clinical trials, or in obtaining regulatory approvals, we might not be able to commercialize our product candidates, or might be significantly delayed in doing so, which will materially harm our business. Our ability to generate revenues from any of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to successfully complete clinical trials, obtain necessary regulatory approvals and implement our commercialization strategy. In addition, even if we are successful in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals and bringing one or more product candidates to market, we will be subject to the risk that the marketplace will not accept those products. We may, and anticipate that we will need to, transition from a company with a research and development focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities and we may not succeed in such a transition. We are awaiting final approval from theIsraeli Ministry of Health (MOH), but we have not yet received regulatory approval from the FDA or any similar foreign regulatory authority for any indication. We cannot market any product candidate until regulatory agencies grant approval or licensure. In order to obtain regulatory approval for the sale of any product candidate, we must, among other requirements, provide the MOH, the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with preclinical and clinical data that demonstrate to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities that our product candidates are safe and effective for each indication under the applicable standards relating to such product candidate. The preclinical studies and clinical trials of any product candi dates must comply with the regulations of the MOH, the FDA and other governmental authorities in the United States and similar agencies in other countries. 15 We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent regulatory approval and/or commercialization of our product candidates, including the following: - The FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may find that our product candidates are not sufficiently safe or effective or may find our processes or facilities unsatisfactory; - Officials at the MOH, the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may interpret data from preclinical studies and clinical trials differently than we do; - Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results or may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the MOH, the FDA or other regulatory authorities, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies and/or clinical trials or to abandon one or more of our development programs; - The MOH, the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations; - There may be delays or failure in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocols from the MOH, the FDA or other regulatory authorities or obtaining institutional review board approvals or government approvals to conduct clinical trials at prospective sites; - We, or regulators, may suspend or terminate our clinical trials because the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or undesirable side effects; - We may experience difficulties in managing multiple clinical sites; - Enrollment in our clinical trials for our product candidates may occur more slowly than we anticipate, or we may experience high drop-out rates of subjects in our clinical trials, resulting in significant delays; - We may be unable to manufacture or obtain from third party manufacturers sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in clinical trials; and - Our product candidates may be deemed unsafe or ineffective, or may be perceived as being unsafe or ineffective, by healthcare providers for a particular indication. Any delay of regulatory approval may harm our business. Our ability to commercialize the products we intend to develop will depend upon our ability to prove the efficacy and safety of these products according to government regulations. Our present and proposed activities are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. To clinically test, produce and market our proposed future products for human use, we must satisfy mandatory procedural and safety and efficacy requirements established by the FDA and comparable state and foreign regulatory agencies. Typically, such rules require that products be approved by the government agency as safe and effective for their intended use prior to being marketed. The approval process is expensive, time consuming and subject t o unanticipated delays. It takes years to complete the testing of a product, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Our product candidates may not be approved. In addition, our product approvals could be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or due to unforeseen problems after the product's marketing approval. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of potential products, or may experience delays in obtaining such approvals, and we may consequently never generate revenues from product sales because of any of the following risks inherent in the regulation of our business: · We may not be successful in obtaining the approval to perform clinical studies, including the approval the Israeli Ministry of Health to conduct clinical trials on ALS patients, an investigational new drug application, or IND, with respect to a proposed product; · Preclinical or clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of proposed products satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; or · Completion of clinical trials may be delayed, or costs of clinical trials may exceed anticipated amounts (for example, negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical test or clinical trial or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated, additional tests to be conducted or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful). 16 We may not be able to succeed in our business model of seeking to enter into collaborations at appropriate stages of development. We intend to enter into strategic partnerships as we progress towards advanced clinical development and commercialization with companies responsible for such activities. We intend to provide strategic partners with services required to process the NurOwn™ products for the clinical trials. It may be difficult for us to find third parties that are willing to enter into collaborations for our potential products at the appropriate stage of development, on economic terms that are attractive to us or at all. If we are not able to continue to enter into acceptable collaborations, we could fail in our strategy of generating an early inflow of up-front and milestone payments and to enhance our capacities in regulatory and clinical infrastructure while minimizing expenditure and risk and we could be required to undertake and fund further development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing activities solely at our own expense. We may be dependent upon a company with which we enter into collaborations to conduct clinical trials and to commercialize our potential products. If we are ultimately successful in executing our strategy of securing collaborations with companies that would undertake advanced clinical development and commercialization of our products, we may not have day-to-day control over their activities. Any such collaborator may adhere to criteria for determining whether to proceed with a clinical development program under circumstances where we might have continued such a program. Potential collaborators may have significant discretion in determining the efforts and amount of resources that they dedicate to our collaborations or may be unwilling or unable to fulfill their ob ligations to us, including their development and commercialization. Potential collaborators may underfund or not commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution or other development of our products. They may also not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or they may utilize our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or potentially invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential liability. Potential collaboration partners may have the right to terminate the collaboration on relatively short notice and if they do so or if they fail to perform or satisfy their obligations to us, the development or commercialization of products would be delayed and our ability to realize any potential milestone payments and royalty revenue would be adversely affected. We face significant competition in our efforts to develop cell therapies for ALS, PD and other neurodegenerative diseases. We face significant competition in our efforts to develop cell therapies and other treatment or procedures to cure or slow the effects of ALS, PD and other neurodegenerative diseases. Among our competitors are companies that are involved in the fetal cell transplant or embryonic stem cell derived cell therapy and companies developing adult stem cells. Other companies are developing traditional chemical compounds, new biological drugs, cloned human proteins and other treatments, which are likely to impact the markets that we intend to target. Many of our competitors possess longer operating histories and greater financial, managerial, scientifi c and technical resources than we do and some possess greater name recognition and established customer bases. Many also have significantly more experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials, product manufacturing, the regulatory approval process and marketing and distribution than we do. If Ramot is unable to obtain patents on the patent applications and technology exclusively licensed to us or if patents are obtained but do not provide meaningful protection, we may not be able to successfully market our proposed products. We rely upon the patent application as filed by Ramot and the license granted to us by Ramot under the Original Ramot Agreement. We agreed under the Original Ramot Agreement to seek comprehensive patent protection for all inventions licensed to us under the Original Ramot Agreement. However, we cannot be sure that any patents will be issued to Ramot as a result of its domestic or future foreign patent applications or that any issued patents will withstand challenges by others. 17 We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets and seek to protect them through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and advisors. If these confidentiality agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. In addition, others may independently develop or otherwise acquire substantially the same proprietary technology as our technology and trade secrets. As a result of our reliance on consultants, we may not be able to protect the confidentiality of our technology, which, if disseminated, could negatively impact our plan of operations. We currently have relationships with two academic consultants who are not employed by us, and we may enter into additional relationships of such nature in the future. We have limited control over the activities of these consultants and can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our activities. These persons may have consulting, employment or advisory arrangements with other entities that may conflict with or compete with their obligations to us. Our consultants typically sign agreements that provide for confidentiality of our proprietary information and results of studies. However, in connection with every relationship, we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of our technology, the dissemination of which could hurt our competitive position and results of operations. To the extent that our scientific consultants develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the ownership of the proprietary rights to such information, we may expend significant resources in such disputes and we may not win those disputes. The price of our stock is expected to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly, and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. To date, the trading volume in our stock has been relatively low and significant price fluctuations can occur as a result. An active public market for our common stock may not continue to develop or be sustained. If the low trading volumes experienced to date continue, such price fluctuations could occur in the future and the sale price of our common stock could decline significantly. Investors may therefore have difficulty selling their shares. Your percentage ownership will be diluted by future issuances of our securities. In order to meet our financing needs, we may issue additional significant amounts of our common stock and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. The precise terms of any future financings will be determined by us and potential investors and such future financings may also significantly dilute your percentage ownership in the Company. ACCBT Corp. holds equity participation rights that could affect our ability to raise funds. Pursuant to the subscription agreement with ACCBT Corp., a company under the control of Mr. Chaim Lebovits, our President, we granted ACCBT Corp. the right to acquire additional shares of our common stock whenever we issue additional shares of common stock or other securities of the Company, or options or rights to purchase shares of the Company or other securities directly or indirectly convertible into or exercisable for shares of the Company (including shares of any newly created class or series). This participation right could limit our ability to enter into equity financings and to raise funds from third parties. You may experience difficulties in attempting to enforce liabilities based upon U.S. federal securities laws against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers. Our principal operations are located through our subsidiary in Israel and our principal assets are located outside the U.S. Our President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and some of our directors are foreign citizens and do not reside in the U.S. It may be difficult for courts in the U.S. to obtain jurisdiction over our foreign assets or these persons and as a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to enforce judgments rendered against us or our directors or executive officers in U.S. courts. Thus, should any situation arise in the future in which you have a cause of action against these persons or entities, you are at greater risk in investing in our company rather than a domestic company because of greater potential difficulties in bringing lawsuits or, if successful, collecting judgments against these persons or entities as opposed to domestic persons or entities. Political, economic and military instability in Israel may impede our ability to execute our plan of operations. Our principal operations and the research and development facilities of the scientific team funded by us under the Original Ramot Agreement are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Since October 2000, terrorist violence in Israel increased significantly and until they were recently revived, negotiations between Israel and Palestinian representatives had effectively ceased. Ongoing or revived hostilities or other factors related to Israel could ha rm our operations and research and development process and could impede our ability to execute our plan of operations. 18 Investors may face significant restrictions on the resale of our stock due to the way in which stock trades are handled by broker-dealers. Brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of shares of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Because of large broker-dealer spreads, investors may be unable to sell the stock immediately back to the broker-dealer at the same price the broker-dealer sold the stock to the investor. In some cases, the stock may fall quickly in value. Investors may be unable to reap any profit from any sale of the stock, if they can sell it at all. The market among broker-dealers may not be active. Investors in penny stocks often are unable t o sell stock back to the dealer that sold them the stock. The mark-ups or commissions charged by the broker-dealers may be greater than any profit a seller may make. The trading price of our common stock entails additional regulatory requirements, which may negatively affect such trading price. Our common stock is currently listed on the OTC Markets Group, an over-the-counter electronic quotation service, which stock currently trades below $5.00 per share. We anticipate the trading price of our common stock will continue to be below $5.00 per share. As a result of this price level, trading in our common stock would be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades generally involving any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Such rules require the delivery, before any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith, and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally institutions). For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must determine the suitability of the penny stock for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction before sale. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock. As a consequence, the market liquidity of our common stock could be severely affected or limited by these regulatory requirements. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 