ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following summarizes the material risks of purchasing or owning our securities. Additional unknown risks may also impair our financial performance and business operations. Our business, financial condition and/or results of operation may be materially adversely affected by the nature and impact of these risks. In such case, the market value of our securities could be detrimentally affected, and investors may lose part or all of the value of their investment. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before purchasing our securities. Risks Related To Our Business We are engaged in a business focused on designing, building and operating biodiesel refineries, as well as producing biodiesel fuel through proprietary process technologies. The business is inherently risky and we face numerous and varied risks, both known and unknown. Despite the knowledge and experience of management, careful evaluation and strategic planning, we may not be able to overcome the risks associated with our business, which may prevent us from achieving our goals. We are in an early stage with limited operating history and may never attain profitability. We are currently in an early stage of our current business plan. We have limited operating history with respect to the construction and operation of biodiesel refineries for our own use. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business. Therefore, our proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the initial expenses, challenges, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the formation of any new business, as well as those risks that are specific to the biodiesel industry in general. Investors should evaluate an investment in our company in light of the problems and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies attempting to develop markets for new products, services and technologies. Despite best efforts, we may never overcome these obstacles to achieve financial success. Our business is speculative and dependent upon the implementation of our business plan, as well as our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for necessary financing, the provision of necessary feedstock sources, engineering, procurement and construction services and the sale and distribution of our biodiesel fuel on terms that will be commercially viable for us. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or result in revenue or profit. There is no assurance that we will earn significant revenues or that our investors will not lose their entire investment. We may be unable to obtain the additional capital required to implement our business plan. We currently do not have sufficient cash reserves to meet all of our anticipated expenditure obligations for operating and capital purposes for the remainder of fiscal year 2009. As a result, we are in the process of seeking additional capital, particularly with respect to procuring working capital sufficient for operation of our Seneca refinery at full capacity, modifications and operations of our Clinton County refinery and corporate overhead. The revenues generated from designing and building biodiesel refineries for third parties were insufficient to cover the anticipated final costs of construction, and the proceeds from our most recently completed private placements of securities are not sufficient to fund operations as currently contemplated. We must secure additional financing of approximately $20,000,000 to fund additional working capital requirements as the Seneca refinery reaches full production, to cover general and administrative expenses, and to pay operating expenses that are expected to be incurred before the refining operations at Seneca become profitable. The additional capital may be provided by common or preferred equity or equity-linked securities, debt, tolling arrangements with industry participants, project financing, joint venture projects, a strategic business combination, particularly with a strategic partner with access to low-cost feedstocks such as corn oil extracted from dried distillers grains, or a combination of these. We will require additional capital to continue to expand our business beyond the initial phase. Limitations on the anti-dilution adjustments of our outstanding convertible notes implemented to comply with the American Stock Exchange listing rules, and related covenants, significantly constrain the amount of equity capital we can raise until such time as we can obtain stockholder approval to remove such anti-dilution adjustment limitations. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the capital required in a timely fashion, on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain required additional financing, we may be forced to restrain our growth plans or cut back existing operations. Future construction and operation of biodiesel refineries, capital expenditures to build and operate our refineries, hiring qualified management and key employees, complying with licensing, registration and other requirements, maintaining compliance with applicable laws, production and marketing activities, administrative requirements, such as salaries, insurance expenses and general overhead expenses, legal compliance costs and accounting expenses will all require a substantial amount of additional capital and cash flow. 15 Table of Contents We will be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including joint venture projects, tolling arrangements, which may include a profit sharing component, debt financing, equity financing or other means. There is no assurance that we will be successful in locating a suitable financing or strategic business combination transaction in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the capital we require by any other means. Future financings through equity investments are likely, and these are likely to be dilutive to the existing shareholders as we issue additional shares of common stock to investors in future financing transactions and as these financings trigger anti-dilution adjustments in existing equity-linked securities. Also, the terms of securities we issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights, the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, and the issuances of incentive awards under employee equity incentive plans, which may have additional dilutive effects. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets, both generally and specifically in the biodiesel industry, the fact that we are a new enterprise without a proven operating history, the location of our biodiesel refineries in the United States instead of Europe or other regions where biodiesel is more widely accepted, and the price of biodiesel and oil on the commodities market. Furthermore, if petroleum or biodiesel prices on the commodities markets decrease, then our revenues will likely decrease and decreased revenues may increase our requirements for capital. Some of the contractual arrangements governing our operations may require us to maintain minimum capital, and we may lose our contract rights if we do not have the required minimum capital. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, are not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. Unanticipated problems or delays in operating biodiesel refineries to the proper specifications may harm our business and viability. Our current operating cash flow depends on our ability to timely and economically operate our Seneca biodiesel refinery. Refinery operations require significant amounts of capital to procure feedstock before account receivables are paid for finished biodiesel. If our biodiesel refining operations are disrupted or the economic integrity of these projects is threatened for unexpected reasons, our business may experience a substantial setback. Prolonged problems may threaten the commercial viability of our refineries. Moreover, the occurrence of significant unforeseen conditions or events in connection with these refineries may require us to reexamine the thoroughness of our due diligence and planning processes. Any change to our business model or management’s evaluation of the viability of these projects may adversely affect our business. Our construction costs for additional biodiesel refineries may also increase to a level that would make a new facility too expensive to complete or unprofitable to operate. Contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers also receive requests and orders from other companies and, therefore, we may not be able to secure their services or products on a timely basis or on acceptable financial terms. We may suffer significant delays or cost overruns as a result of a variety of factors, such as increases in the prices of raw materials, shortages of workers or materials, transportation constraints, adverse weather, equipment failures, fires, damage to or destruction of property and equipment, environmental damage, unforeseen difficulties or labor issues, any of which could prevent us from commencing operations as expected at our facilities. Our results of operations, financial condition and business outlook will be highly dependent on commodity prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, and the availability of supplies, so our results could fluctuate substantially. Our results are substantially dependent on many different commodity prices, especially prices for biodiesel, petroleum diesel, feedstock and materials used in the construction of our refineries. From 2006 to the fall of 2008, prices for all varieties of feedstock increased to record levels, which were approximately twice the level from when construction began on our refineries. The price of petroleum diesel and biodiesel increased at approximately a similar pace. Since the fall of 2008, the global economic downturn has resulted in significant declines in prices for petroleum diesel and biodiesel. During periods when feedstock and diesel prices are rising, in the absence of any commodity price risk mitigation strategies, the sale of finished biodiesel would generally result in higher margins due to the time difference between when feedstocks are procured and paid for and when the resulting biodiesel is delivered and paid for. Conversely, during periods when feedstock and diesel prices are declining, in the absence of any commodity price risk mitigation strategies, the sale of finished biodiesel 16 Table of Contents would generally result in lower or negative margins due to the same time differences. This effect becomes especially pronounced in periods of extreme and rapid commodity price changes. We currently do not have sufficient working capital to purchase commodity forwards, futures, options or puts to fully implement a robust commodity price risk mitigation strategy. Further, the market efficiency for animal-derived fats, oils and greases has been limited when compared to the market efficiency for vegetable-based oils, resulting in increased price volatility. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these items, our results may fluctuate substantially, and we may experience periods of declining prices for our products and increasing costs for our raw materials, which could result in operating losses. Although we may attempt to offset a portion of the effects of fluctuations in prices by entering into forward contracts to supply biodiesel or purchase feedstock or other items or by engaging in transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts, the amount and duration of these hedging and other risk mitigation activities may vary substantially over time and these activities also involve substantial risks. Biodiesel fuel is a commodity whose price is determined based on the price of petroleum diesel, world demand, supply and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Prices for biodiesel fuel in the regions in which we sell have fluctuated widely in recent years. We expect that prices will continue to fluctuate in the future. Price fluctuations will have a significant impact upon our revenue, the return on our investment in biodiesel refineries and on our general financial condition. Price fluctuations for biodiesel fuel, regionally and globally, may also affect the investment market, and our ability to raise additional capital. Future decreases in the prices of biodiesel or petroleum diesel fuel may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. The price of feedstock is influenced by market demand, weather conditions, animal processing and rendering plant decisions, the level of feedstock use as feed for livestock, factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions, foreign demand for feedstock and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of feedstock is difficult to predict. The prices for most commonly available biodiesel feedstocks were at or near record high levels until the fall of 2008 and then fell dramatically. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of feedstock, such as increased demand, adverse weather or crop disease, could increase feedstock prices and potentially harm our business. In addition, we may also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing feedstock on economical terms due to supply shortages or quality control issues of feedstock providers. For example, some animal rendering operations produce feedstock with unacceptable levels of polyethylene, which must be rejected before the feedstock enters the refinery. Such a shortage or quality control issues could require us to suspend operations until sufficient feedstock of acceptable quality is available at economical terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. The price we pay for feedstock at a refinery could increase if an additional multi-feedstock biodiesel production facility is built in the same general vicinity or if alternative uses are found for lower cost feedstocks. We are a holding company, and there are significant limitations on our ability to receive distributions from our subsidiaries. We conduct substantially all of our operations through subsidiaries and are dependent on dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Our subsidiaries may not have funds legally available for dividends or distributions, and we may enter into credit or other agreements that would contractually restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends, making distributions or making intracompany loans to our parent company or to any other subsidiary. In particular, our credit agreement for the Seneca refinery sweeps a significant portion of its cash flow—100% of its cash flow unless and until various required reserve accounts are filled and the federal biodiesel excise tax credit is extended past December 31, 2009—into a number of reserve escrow accounts until repayment of the loan. Until such time as our Seneca refinery generates sufficient revenue to fill the various required reserve accounts, such revenue will not be available to fund ongoing working capital and corporate overhead requirements for the other Nova entities. We do not have similar restrictions with respect to revenues generated by our Clinton County biodiesel refinery or by our offtake arrangement from the Scott biodiesel refinery. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations that are available for distribution, are not sufficient to satisfy our ongoing working capital and corporate overhead requirements needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. 17 Table of Contents Cold weather can cause biodiesel, particularly biodiesel produced from animal fats, oils and greases, to gel sooner than petroleum-based diesel, which has resulted in price discounts for biodiesel produced from animal fats, oils and greases. The cloud point for a fuel is the temperature at which the liquid becomes cloudy due to formation of crystals and solidification of saturates. With decreasing temperature, more solids form and the material approaches the pour point, the lowest temperature at which the material will pour. A lower cloud point means the fuel will flow more readily in cold weather. No. 2 diesel and No. 1 diesel are used extensively for automotive transportation. Although the cloud points for these products vary depending on the origin refinery and the time of the year, an indicative range observed for No.2 diesel is –14°C to -23°C. In contrast, the cloud points of soybean-based, yellow grease-based and animal tallow-based pure biodiesel, or B100, are approximately 0°C, 5°C and 10°C, respectively. Testing conducted in 2005 by the Biodiesel Cold Flow Consortium established by the National Biodiesel Board demonstrated that the cloud points of soybean-based, yellow grease-based and animal tallow-based 2% blended biodiesel, or B2, varied only a few degrees from the cloud point of No. 2 diesel. However, there exists a discount in the marketplace for B100 biodiesel with high cloud points. This discount may range from $0.50 to $1.15 per gallon depending on the season, with a lower discount during warmer months and a higher discount in the summer months. In addition to the decline in price differential between biodiesel and petroleum-derived diesel expected during the colder months, it is likely that the discount for biodiesel produced from animal fats, oils and greases will increase during colder weather. This may also require us to use particular feedstocks that customers believe are better suited for their climate, which could require us to purchase more expensive feedstocks and increase our cost of sales. In addition, the testing conducted by the Biodiesel Cold Flow Consortium showed that successful blending of biodiesel with petroleum-based diesel would require the biodiesel to be heated to approximately 10°C above its cloud point. This would necessitate the use of heated facilities in order to produce a blended product, which may increase blending costs and the resulting cost of biodiesel sold to the public. Further, at low temperatures, biodiesel may need to be stored in a heated building or heated storage tanks, which would increase storage costs. Any reduction in the demand for or pricing of, or increased costs of, our biodiesel will reduce our revenue and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. biodiesel industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The production of biodiesel is made significantly more competitive by federal and state tax incentives. The federal excise tax incentive program for biodiesel was originally enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, but is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2009. Since January 1, 2009, this program provides fuel blenders, generally distributors, with a one-cent tax credit for each percentage point of biodiesel blended with petroleum diesel. As a producer, we do not directly receive the biodiesel tax credit. For example, distributors that blend biodiesel with petroleum diesel into a B20 blend would receive a twenty cent per gallon excise tax credit. These tax credits generally allow for B100 biodiesel to sell at a premium over wholesale petroleum diesel, although the wholesale price paid by a blender to a producer may not reflect the full amount of the tax credit and the amount of the premium, if any, is generally less during colder months. In addition, approximately thirty-one states provide mandates, programs and other incentives to increase biodiesel production and use, such as mandates for fleet use or for overall use within the state, tax credits, financial grants, tax deductions, financial assistance, tax exemptions and fuel rebate programs. For example, Illinois exempts biodiesel blends of B10 and higher from its state sales tax. These incentives are meant to lower the cost of biodiesel in comparison to petroleum diesel. The elimination or significant reduction in the federal excise tax incentive program or state incentive programs benefiting biodiesel production may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, unless and until the federal biodiesel excise tax incentive is extended past December 31, 2009, 100% of the cash flow of our Seneca refinery will be swept into an escrow account to secure repayment of the project financing loan and will not be available for distribution to our parent company. Adverse public opinions concerning the biodiesel industry in general or biodiesel produced from animal-derived fats, oils and greases could harm our business. The biodiesel industry is new, and general public acceptance of biodiesel is uncertain, particularly with respect to biodiesel produced from animal-derived fats, oil and greases. For example, in many markets animal-derived biodiesel sells at a discount compared to soy-derived biodiesel. Public acceptance of biodiesel produced by the Nova process as a reliable, high-quality alternative to diesel may be limited or slower than anticipated due to several factors, including: · public perception that biodiesel produced from animal-derived fats, oil and greases or waste vegetable oils does not consistently comply with ASTM D6751 or other applicable standards; 18 Table of Contents · public perception that the use of biodiesel will require excessive engine modifications, or that engines running biodiesel will not reliably start in cold conditions; · actual or perceived problems with biodiesel quality or performance; and · concern that using biodiesel will void engine warranties. Even if the Nova process consistently produces biodiesel that complies with ASTM D6751 and other applicable standards, actual or perceived problems with quality control in the industry generally may lead to a lack of consumer confidence in biodiesel and harm our ability to successfully market biodiesel. For example, the State of Minnesota temporarily suspended its 2% biodiesel, or B2, mandate on at least two occasions due to concerns about biodiesel quality. Similar quality control issues in biodiesel that is produced by other industry participants could result in a decrease in demand or mandates for biodiesel, with a resulting decrease in our revenue. Such public perceptions or concerns, whether substantiated or not, may adversely affect the demand for our biodiesel, which in turn could decrease our sales, harm our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Strategic relationships on which we may rely are subject to change. Our ability to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with feedstock suppliers, construction contractors, equipment fabricators, transportation, logistics and marketing services providers and biodiesel customers will depend on developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants. Our success in this area will also depend on our ability to select and evaluate suitable projects as well as to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. These relationships are subject to change and may impair our ability to grow. To develop our business, we will use the business relationships of management in order to form strategic relationships. These relationships may take the form of joint ventures with other private parties or local government bodies, contractual arrangements with other companies, including those that supply feedstock that we will use in our business, or minority investments from third parties. There can be no assurances that we will be able to establish these strategic relationships, or, if established, that the relationships will be maintained, particularly if members of the management team leave our company. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic partners may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to incur or undertake in order to fulfill our obligations to these partners or maintain these relationships. If we do not successfully establish or maintain strategic relationships, our business may be negatively affected. Our business may suffer if we are unable to attract or retain talented personnel. As of October 31, 2008, we had approximately 90 full-time equivalent employees. Our success will depend in large measure on the abilities, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity, and good faith of our management, as well as other personnel. We have a relatively small but very effective management team, and the loss of a key individual or inability to attract suitably qualified replacements or additional staff could adversely affect our business. We may also experience difficulties in certain jurisdictions in our efforts to obtain and/or retain suitably qualified staff willing to work in such jurisdictions. Our success depends on the ability of management and employees to interpret market and technical data correctly, as well as respond to economic, market and other conditions. No assurance can be given that our key personnel will continue their association or employment with us or that replacement personnel with comparable skills will be found. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and additional employees, our business may be adversely affected. We may be unable to locate suitable properties and obtain the development rights needed to build and expand our business. Our long-term business plan focuses on designing, building and operating biodiesel refineries for our own account. Although we were able to successfully enter into agreements to purchase land in Seneca, Illinois, our ability to acquire quality properties in the future is uncertain and we may be required to delay construction of our facilities, which may create unanticipated costs and delays. In the event that we are not successful in identifying and obtaining development rights on suitable properties for building and operating biodiesel refineries, our future prospects for profitability will likely be substantially limited, and our financial condition and resulting operations may be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents The production, sale and distribution of biodiesel is dependent on sufficient and necessary infrastructure which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all, and our operations could be adversely affected by infrastructure disruptions. Substantial development of infrastructure will be required by persons and entities outside our control for our operations, and the biodiesel industry generally, to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to: · adequate rail capacity, including sufficient numbers of dedicated tanker cars; · sufficient storage facilities for feedstock and biodiesel; · increases in truck fleets capable of transporting biodiesel within localized markets; and · expansion of refining and blending facilities to handle biodiesel. Substantial investments required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made or they may not be made on a timely basis. Any delay or failure in making the changes to or expansion of infrastructure could hurt the demand or prices for our products, impede our delivery of products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection of our intellectual property. Our success will depend in part on our ability to maintain or obtain and enforce patent and other intellectual property protection for our technologies, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. We have obtained or developed rights to patents and patent applications in the United States and internationally, and may, in the future, seek rights from third parties to other patent applications or patented technology. Significant aspects of our technology are currently protected as trade secrets, for which we intend to file patent applications when appropriate. The description of the processes currently protected as trade secrets is likely to be published at some point in the patent application process with no assurance that the related patents will be issued. Further, certain confidentiality agreements may expire prior to the issuance of the relevant patent. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from the patent applications filed or to be filed or that the scope of any claims granted in any patent will provide us with proprietary protection or a competitive advantage. We cannot be certain that the creators of our technology were the first inventors of inventions covered by our patents and patent applications or that they were the first to file. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our patents will be valid or will afford us with protection against competitors with similar technology. The failure to obtain or maintain patent or other intellectual property protection on the technologies underlying our biodiesel refining process may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business prospects. It is also possible that our technologies may infringe on patents or other intellectual property rights owned by others. We may have to alter our products or processes, pay licensing fees, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court, or cease activities altogether because of patent rights of third parties, thereby causing additional unexpected costs and delays to us. There can be no assurance that a license will be available to us, if at all, upon terms and conditions acceptable to us or that we will prevail in any intellectual property litigation. Intellectual property litigation is costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to pursue such litigation. If we do not obtain a license under such intellectual property rights, are found liable for infringement or are not able to have such patents declared invalid, we may be liable for significant money damages and may encounter significant delays in bringing products and services to market. There can be no assurance that we have identified all United States and foreign patents that pose a risk of infringement. Competition may impair our success. We face competition from other producers of biodiesel with respect to the procurement of feedstock, obtaining suitable properties for the construction of biodiesel refineries and selling biodiesel and related products. Such competition could intensify, thus driving up the cost of feedstock and driving down the price for our products. Competition will likely increase as the commodities market prices of hydrocarbon-based energy, including petroleum and biodiesel, rise as they have in recent years. Additionally, new companies are constantly entering the market, thus increasing the competition. Larger foreign owned and domestic companies who have been engaged in this business for substantially longer periods of time, such as vertically integrated agricultural and food supply companies such as ADM and Bunge, or who decide to enter into our industry, such as Tyson and ConocoPhillips, may have access to greater resources. These companies may 20 Table of Contents have greater success in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees, as well as in conducting their own refining and fuel marketing operations, and may have greater access to feedstocks, market presence, economies of scale, financial resources and engineering, technical and marketing capabilities, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, actual or potential competitors may be strengthened through the acquisition of additional assets and interests. If we are unable to compete effectively or adequately respond to competitive pressures, this may materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition and could also have a negative impact on our ability to obtain additional capital from investors. Competition due to advances in alternative fuels may lessen the demand for biodiesel and negatively impact our profitability. Alternative fuels, gasoline oxygenates, ethanol and biodiesel production methods are continually under development. A number of automotive, industrial and power generation manufacturers are developing alternative clean power systems using fuel cells or clean-burning gaseous fuels that, like biodiesel, may address increasing worldwide energy costs, the long-term availability of petroleum reserves and environmental concerns. Additionally, there is significant research and development being undertaken regarding the production of ethanol from cellulosic biomass, the production of methane from anaerobic digesters and the production of electricity from wind and tidal energy systems, among other potential sources of renewable energy. If these alternative fuels continue to expand and gain broad acceptance such that the overall demand for diesel is reduced, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our business is subject to local legal, political, and economic factors which are beyond our control. We believe that the current political environment for construction of biodiesel refineries is sufficiently supportive to enable us to plan and implement our operations. However, there are risks that conditions will change in an adverse manner. These risks include, but are not limited to, laws or policies affecting mandates or incentives to promote the use of biodiesel, environmental issues, land use, air emissions, water use, zoning, workplace safety, restrictions imposed on the biodiesel fuel industry such as restrictions on production, substantial changes in product quality standards, restrictions on feedstock supply, price controls and export controls. Any changes in biodiesel fuel, financial incentives, investment regulations, policies or a shift in political attitudes are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business and future financial results. Changes in industry specification standards for biodiesel may increase production costs or require additional capital expenditures to upgrade or modify our biodiesel production facilities. Such upgrades or modifications may entail delays in construction or stoppages of production. The American Society of Testing and Materials, or ASTM, is the recognized standard-setting body for fuels and additives in the United States. ASTM’s specification for biodiesel as a blend stock, D6751, has been adopted by the EPA, and compliance with such specification is required in order for our biodiesel to qualify as a legal motor fuel for sale and distribution. In Europe, the biodiesel standard is EN 14214, which has been modified to a more stringent standard in Germany. ASTM and the European standard-setting bodies have modified the biodiesel specifications in the past, and are expected to continue to modify specifications in the future as the use of biodiesel expands. There is no guarantee that our production facilities will be able to produce ASTM-compliant biodiesel in the event of changes to the specifications. We may need to invest significant capital resources to upgrade or modify our production facilities, which might cause delays in construction or stoppages of production and the resultant loss of revenue, or which might not be economically feasible at all. Any modifications to our production facilities or to the biodiesel specification set by ASTM or other specification with which we attempt to comply may entail increased construction or production costs or reduced production capacity. These consequences could result in a negative impact on our financial performance. Environmental risks and regulations may adversely affect our business. All phases of designing, constructing and operating biodiesel refineries present environmental risks and hazards. We are subject to environmental regulation implemented or imposed by a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations as well as international conventions. Among other things, environmental legislation provides for restrictions and prohibitions on spills and discharges, as well as emissions of various substances produced in association with biodiesel fuel operations. Legislation also requires that facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed in such a way that would satisfy applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner we expect may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, as well as potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. 21 Table of Contents The presence or discharge of pollutants in or into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties and may require us to incur costs to remedy such presence or discharge. If we are unable to remediate such conditions economically or obtain reimbursement or indemnification from third parties, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, environmental regulatory standards for emissions into the air may adversely affect the market for biodiesel. For example, while biodiesel is generally believed to reduce emissions of hydrocarbons, sulfur, carbon monoxide and particulate pollutants, its effect on the emissions of nitrogen oxide in comparison to petroleum diesel are not, at this time, clearly established. We cannot give assurance that the application of environmental laws to our business will not cause us to limit our production, to significantly increase the costs of our operations and activities, to reduce the market for our products or to otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Penalties we may incur could impair our business. Failure to comply with government regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties require us to forfeit property rights and may affect the value of our assets or our ability to conduct our business. We may also be required to take corrective actions, including, but not limited to, installing additional equipment, which could require us to make substantial capital expenditures. We could also be required to indemnify our employees in connection with any expenses or liabilities that they may incur individually in connection with regulatory action against them. These could result in a material adverse effect on our prospects, business, financial condition and our results of operations. Our business will suffer if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits or licenses. Our operations will require licenses, permits and in some cases renewals of these licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. Our ability to obtain, sustain, or renew such licenses and permits on acceptable, commercially viable terms are subject to change, as, among other things, the regulations and policies of applicable governmental authorities may change. Our inability to obtain or extend a license or a loss of any of these licenses or permits may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our insurance may be inadequate to cover liabilities we may incur. Our involvement in the design, construction and operation of biodiesel refineries may result in our becoming subject to liability for pollution, property damage, personal injury, or other hazards. Although we will obtain insurance in accordance with industry standards to address those risks, insurance has limitations on liability that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of our liabilities. In addition, some risks may not be insurable or, in certain circumstances, we may choose not to obtain insurance to manage specific risks due to the high premiums associated with the insurance, or for other reasons. The payment of uninsured liabilities could reduce the funds available for operations or capital needs. If we suffer a significant event or occurrence that is not fully covered by insurance, or if the insurer of a particular incident is not solvent, this could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Increases in our energy costs will affect operating results and financial condition. Our biodiesel production costs will be dependent on the costs of the energy sources used to run our refineries. These costs are subject to fluctuations and variations in different locations where we intend to operate, and we may not be able to predict or control these costs. If these costs exceed our expectations, this may adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth. Our strategy includes expanding our business operations. If we fail to effectively manage the growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. Growth may place a strain on our management systems and resources. We must continue to refine and expand our business development capabilities, our systems and processes and our access to financing sources. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We cannot assure that we will be able to: · meet our capital needs; · expand our systems effectively, efficiently or in a timely manner; · allocate our human resources optimally; 22 Table of Contents · identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees; or · effectively incorporate the components of any business that we may acquire in the future. If we are unable to manage our growth and operations, then our financial results could be adversely affected. Lack of diversification may increase the risk. Larger companies have the ability to manage their risk through diversification. However, we lack diversification, in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. As a result, we could potentially be impacted more by factors affecting the biodiesel industry or the regions in which we operate than we would if our business were more diversified. We will rely on technology to conduct our business and our technology could become ineffective or obsolete. We will be required to continually enhance and update our technology to maintain its efficacy and to avoid obsolescence. The costs of doing so may be substantial and may be higher than the costs that we anticipate for technology maintenance and development. If we are unable to maintain the efficacy of our technology, our ability to manage our business and to compete may be impaired. Even if we are able to maintain technical effectiveness, our technology may not be the most efficient means of reaching our objectives, in which case we may incur higher operating costs than we would if our technology was more effective. The impact of technical shortcomings could have a material adverse effect on our prospects, business, financial condition, and results of operations. Litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and liabilities and prevent us from selling our biodiesel. We must operate in a way that does not infringe the intellectual property rights of others in the U.S. and foreign countries. Third parties may claim that our production process or related technologies infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights. Competitors may have filed patent applications or have issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to production processes that are similar to ours. We may not be aware of all of the patents potentially adverse to our interests. We may need to participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or in similar agencies of foreign governments to determine the priority of invention involving issued patents and pending applications of another entity. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, may cause us to incur significant expenses, divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns and, in certain cases, result in substantial additional expenses to license technologies from third parties. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources or engage legal counsel willing to advance the litigation costs. An unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding or patent infringement suit could require us to pay substantial damages, cease using the technology or to license rights, potentially at a substantial cost, from prevailing third parties. There is no assurance that any prevailing party would offer us a license or that we could acquire any license made available to us on commercially acceptable terms. Even if we are able to obtain rights to a third party’s intellectual property, those rights may be non-exclusive and therefore our competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to produce and sell our biodiesel or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. We cannot give assurances that our biodiesel technologies will not conflict with the intellectual property rights of others. Additionally, any involvement in litigation in which we are accused of infringement may result in negative publicity about us and injure our relations with any then-current or prospective customers or vendors. Decommissioning costs are unknown and may be substantial. We may become responsible for costs associated with abandoning facilities that we use for production of biodiesel, which we anticipate will have a useful life of twenty years in the absence of a major overhaul. Abandonment and reclamation of these facilities and the associated costs are often referred to as “decommissioning.” We have not yet determined if we will establish a reserve account for these potential costs for any of our biodiesel refineries or if we will be able to pay for the costs of decommissioning from the proceeds of future sales. The use of other funds to pay for decommissioning costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to financial reporting and other requirements for which our accounting, internal audit and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to conduct an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, provide a report on our assessment and obtain a report by our independent auditors addressing our assessments. These reporting and other obligations will place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational and accounting and financial resources. Risks related to our prior business may adversely affect our business. Prior to the share exchange and the resulting change in control of our company, our business involved oil and natural gas exploration, with an emphasis on the development and production of oil and natural gas assets. This included ownership of non-operating, working interests in two wells in Texas and the exploration of this property. We have determined not to pursue this line of business. However, claims arising from our former business may be made against us. These claims may arise from these former activities (including employee and labor matters), financing and credit arrangements or other commercial transactions. While no claims are pending and we have no actual knowledge of any threatened claims, it is possible that third parties may seek to make claims against us related to the activities and liabilities of our company prior to the share exchange. Even if asserted claims are without merit and we have no liability, defense costs and the distraction of management’s attention may adversely affect our business. If any potential claims are made, our business could suffer, particularly if any such claims are material in terms of their magnitude or complexity. Therefore, claims arising from our business prior to the share exchange may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able economically operate the Clinton County refinery or to implement capital improvement projects necessary to achieve profitability. In evaluating the terms of the acquisition of the Clinton County refinery, we made certain assumptions concerning future operations and future capital improvement projects. A principal assumption was that the acquisition will produce operating results better than those historically experienced and that we could implement capital improvements to achieve profitability. There can be no assurance, however, that this assumption is correct or that the business of the Clinton County refinery will be economically operated or that we can implement capital improvement projects necessary to use high free fatty acid feedstocks or to enhance reliability and operating efficiency. The gross margins our biodiesel refineries are and will be principally dependent on the spread between feedstock prices and biodiesel prices. If the cost of feedstock increases and the cost of biodiesel does not similarly increase or if the cost of biodiesel decreases and the cost of feedstock does not similarly decrease, our margins will decrease, and our results of operations will be adversely affected. Biodiesel is marketed primarily as an additive or alternative to petroleum-based diesel fuel, and as a result biodiesel prices are primarily influenced by the supply and demand for petroleum-based diesel fuel, rather than biodiesel production costs. The very low correlation between production costs and product prices means that we are generally unable to pass increased feedstock costs on to our customers. Any decrease in the spread between biodiesel prices and feedstock prices, whether as a result of a reduction in biodiesel prices or an increase in feedstock prices, would adversely affect our financial performance and cash flow. The gross margins of our refineries depend on the spread between biodiesel and feedstock prices. At present, our Clinton County refinery cannot process lower cost, high free fatty acid feedstocks. Until we are able to make capital improvements to the Clinton County refinery to fully allow use of less expensive feedstocks, the Clinton County refinery will be limited to soybean oil, choice white grease and other low free fatty acid feedstocks. The spread between biodiesel prices, especially with respect to animal fat-derived biodiesel, and feedstock prices has narrowed significantly in recent periods. Our principal feedstocks do not necessarily have a direct price relationship to the price of biodiesel. The price of these feedstocks is influenced by general economic, market and regulatory factors and has been extremely volatile recently. Any conditions that negatively impact the supply of these feedstocks, such as decreased soybean acres planted by farmers, increased costs of corn for animal feed, severe weather or crop disease, or factors that increase demand for these feedstocks, such as increasing biodiesel production or changes in governmental policies or subsidies, will tend to increase feedstock prices. Farmer planting decisions are a key driver of the price of crop-based feedstocks. In the past two decades, soybean acreage in the U.S. has ranged from approximately 58,000,000 acres to approximately 75,000,000 acres. Planting decisions for 2009 and beyond are likely to be based on relative government supports and anticipated crop prices. If there is a general 24 Table of Contents decrease in planted acres of soybeans and other oilseed crops, the price for these feedstocks may increase, which may cause our multi-feedstock capable competitors to switch to low free fatty acid animal-derived fats as a feedstock. The expected ripple effect of this switch may likely be a corresponding increase in the cost of high free fatty acid feedstocks, which would increase our costs of producing biodiesel. Assumption of unknown liabilities in the acquisition of the Clinton County biodiesel refinery may harm our financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions may be structured in such a manner that would result in the assumption of unknown liabilities not disclosed by the seller or uncovered during pre-acquisition due diligence. For example, our acquisition of the Clinton County refinery was structured as an asset purchase in which we effectively assumed all of the liabilities of the plant from and after the closing date, including liabilities that may be unknown. Such unknown obligations and liabilities, should they arise, could harm our financial condition and operating results. Risks Related To Our Securities There is not a well-established trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol “NBF.” While our common stock is now listed on a national securities exchange, the average trading volume has not changed significantly from the recent historical average daily trading volume experienced by our common stock when it was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board system and the sales prices for our common stock have fluctuated widely since the share exchange in March 2006 depending on the trading volume. The limited public trading market and price volatility may impair your ability to sell your shares of our common stock at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable, reduce the fair market value of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital by selling additional shares of capital stock and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using common stock as consideration. Other factors could cause the market price of our common stock to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition to the limited trading market, the market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · dilution caused by our issuance of additional shares of common stock and other forms of equity securities, which we expect to make in connection with future capital financings to fund our operations and growth, to attract and retain valuable personnel and in connection with future strategic partnerships with other companies, and the further dilution caused by anti-dilution adjustments made to our outstanding equity-linked securities as a result of such issuances; · announcements of new financings, refinery startups, acquisitions and other business initiatives by our competitors; · fluctuations in revenue from our biodiesel refineries; · volatility in the market for biodiesel fuel commodities and/or generally in the capital markets; · changes in the availability of feedstock on commercially economic terms; · changes in the availability of the rail transportation equipment or access to the rail transportation system; · changes in the demand for biodiesel fuel, including changes resulting from the expansion of other alternative fuels; · changes in the social, political and/or legal climate in the regions in which we will operate; · quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; · changes in the valuation of similarly situated companies, both in our industry and in other industries; 25 Table of Contents · changes in analysts’ estimates affecting us, our competitors or our industry; · changes in the accounting methods used in or otherwise affecting our industry; · additions and departures of key personnel; · announcements of technological innovations or new products available to the biodiesel refineries industry; · announcements by relevant governments pertaining to incentives for alternative energy development programs; · fluctuations in interest rates, exchange rates and the availability of capital in the capital markets; or · significant sales of our common stock, including sales by shareholders holding shares of common stock issued in the share exchange and future investors in future offerings from which we expect to raise additional capital as well as short sales and other hedging transactions facilitated by the securities loan agreement described in our consolidated financial statements filed with our most recent quarterly report, which was implemented to facilitate the offering and sale of our convertible notes. These and other factors are largely beyond our control, and the impact of these risks, singly or in the aggregate, may result in material adverse changes to the market price of the common stock and/or our results of operation and financial condition. Shares of our common stock that previously could not be traded without restriction are currently eligible for trading upon compliance with Rule 144. As of December 31, 2008, 110,047,996 shares of our common stock were outstanding. Substantially all such shares have satisfied the initial holding period of Rule 144. As a result, substantially all shares held by non-affiliates are eligible for trading. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that the availability of these shares for sale, or the sale of these shares, will have on the market price for our common stock. If the number of shares offered for sale is greater than the number of shares sought to be purchased, then the price of our common stock would decline. The market price of our securities could be adversely affected by future sales of these securities. A large number of shares of our common stock underlying warrants, options and convertible notes may be available for future sale and the sale of these shares may depress the market price of our common stock. The issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of our outstanding options and warrants will result in dilution to the interests of our shareholders and you as an investor, and may have an adverse effect on the trading price and market for our common stock. As of October 31, 2008, we had options, warrants and convertible notes outstanding that may be exercised or converted at various times to acquire approximately 40.1 million shares, or approximately 26.7% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis. The future sale of these shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Shares issued upon exercise of our outstanding options, warrants and convertible notes will also cause immediate and potentially substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. In addition, as long as these options, warrants and convertible notes remain outstanding, our ability to obtain additional capital through the sale of our securities might be adversely affected. Our existing shareholders can exert significant influence over us. Their interests may not coincide with yours and they may make decisions with which you may disagree. As of December 31, 2008, Kenneth T. Hern, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, owned approximately 12.7% of our outstanding common stock. Further, J.D. McGraw, our former Vice-Chairman, also owned a significant number of our shares of outstanding common stock, and Michael McGowan, one of the original founders of Biosource America, owned approximately 11.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these shareholders, acting individually, together or with others, could exert significant influence over substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interest of other shareholders. Accordingly, these shareholders could cause us to enter into transactions or 26 Table of Contents agreements that you would not approve or make decisions with which you may disagree. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not intend to declare dividends for the foreseeable future, as we anticipate that we will reinvest any future earnings into the development and growth of our business. Therefore, investors will not receive any funds unless they sell their common stock, and shareholders may be unable to sell their shares on favorable terms or at all. Investors cannot be assured of a positive return on investment or that they will not lose the entire amount of their investment in the common stock. If we are or become a “United States real property holding corporation,” non-U.S. investors may be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including withholding tax, in connection with the disposition of our shares, and U.S. investors selling our shares may be required to certify as to their status in order to avoid withholding. A non-U.S. holder of our common stock will generally be subject to withholding of U.S. federal income tax with respect to distributions made by us that are treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Moreover, a non-U.S. holder of our common stock not otherwise subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain from the sale or other disposition of our common stock may nevertheless be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to such sale or other disposition if we are, or have been, a United States real property holding corporation at any time within the five-year period preceding the disposition, or the non-U.S. holder’s holding period if shorter. Generally, a corporation is a “United States real property holding corporation” at any time the fair market value of its U.S. real property interests, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and applicable regulations, equals or exceeds 50% of the aggregate fair market value of its worldwide real property interests and its other assets used or held for use in a trade or business. Although we believe that we are not currently a United States real property holding corporation, and do not expect to become a United States real property holding corporation, no assurances can be made in this regard. Certain non-U.S. holders of our common stock may be eligible for an exception to the general rule described above if our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market during the calendar year in which the sale or disposition occurs and the non-U.S. holder holds no more than 5% of our outstanding common stock, directly or indirectly, during the relevant period, or the “5% exception.” If we are a United States real property holding corporation during the relevant time period, and the 5% exception does not apply, the purchaser or other transferee of our common stock will generally be required to withhold tax at the rate of 10% on the sales price or other amount realized, unless the transferor furnishes an affidavit certifying that it is not a foreign person in the manner and form specified in the applicable U.S. Treasury regulations. Our management will have broad discretion over the use of the proceeds to us from any offering and might not apply the proceeds of an offering in ways that increase the value of your investment. Our management will have broad discretion to use the net proceeds from any offering, and you will have to rely on the judgment of our management regarding the application of these proceeds. Our management might not apply the net proceeds of an offering in ways that you believe will increase the value of your investment. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our current indebtedness and any future indebtedness could adversely affect our business and may restrict our operating flexibility. As of October 31, 2008, we had approximately $96,664,000 in total long-term debt. Our ability to incur additional debt could adversely affect our business and restrict our operating flexibility. We face several risks relating to our need to complete additional financings in the future. We must secure additional working capital financing for our Seneca biodiesel refinery of approximately $15,000,000. If we build additional refineries, financing for the additional biodiesel refineries are likely to be at a level likely to be higher than that for our Seneca refinery. We anticipate that a 60,000,000 gallon per year biodiesel refinery built by third party contractors will cost approximately $75,000,000 to $120,000,000 to build, exclusive of any capitalized interest costs, land acquisition costs, the costs of related or ancillary infrastructure and working capital costs. However, there can be no assurances that costs may not be greater depending on site conditions, costs of materials, labor costs, engineering and design changes and other potential cost overruns. The financing may consist of debt but may also consist of common or preferred equity, project financing or a combination of these financing techniques. Additional debt will increase our leverage and interest expense and will likely be secured by certain of our assets; additional equity or equity-linked financings may have a dilutive effect on our equity and equity-linked securities holders and may trigger anti-dilution adjustments under our outstanding equity-linked securities. It is 27 Table of Contents likely that the terms of any project financing would include customary financial and other covenants on our project subsidiaries, including restrictions on the ability to make distributions to the parent company, to guarantee the debts of the parent company and to incur liens on the refineries of such project subsidiaries, among others. If our cash flow proves inadequate to service our debt and provide for our other obligations, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing and future debt on terms unfavorable to us or cease operations. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt, and to fund our operations and capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate substantial operating cash flow. If our future cash flows prove inadequate to meet our future debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing or future debt, to sell assets, to obtain additional financing or to cease operations. We cannot assure you that any such refinancing or that any such sale of assets or additional financing would be possible on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional equity or equity-related securities in the future, it may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. Future sales of shares of our common stock or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, the value of our debt securities and our ability to raise funds in new equity offerings. We may issue additional common stock, preferred stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market or privately, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and the value of our debt securities and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common stock or the value of our debt securities. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Nevada law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. You should consider the U.S. federal income tax consequences of owning our securities. There are risks associated with the U.S. federal income tax consequences of owning our securities. Because the tax consequences of owning our securities are complex and certain tax consequences may differ depending on the holder’s particular tax circumstances, each potential investor should consult with and rely on its tax advisor about the tax consequences. In addition, there can be no assurance that the U.S. federal income tax treatment currently applicable to owning our securities will not be modified by legislative, administrative, or judicial action that may have a retroactive effect. No representation or warranty of any kind is made with respect to the acceptance by the Internal Revenue Service or any court of law regarding the treatment of any item of income, deduction, gain, loss or credit by an investor on its tax return. The effect of the lending of our shares of common stock pursuant to a share lending agreement, including sales of our common stock in short sale transactions, may lower the market price of our common stock. As described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this report, two stockholders entered into a securities loan agreement to facilitate the offering and sale of our convertible notes. We expect that these shares are being used to facilitate transactions by which investors in our convertible notes may hedge their interests in the convertible notes. The effect of these transactions could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock also could be negatively affected by short sales or other derivative trades of our common stock by the purchasers of the convertible notes to hedge their investment in the convertible notes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 28 Table of Contents 