Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Any potential investor should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before purchasing any shares of our common stock. The risks described below are those we currently believe may materially affect us. Risks Related to our Business: We have had operating losses since formation and expect to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will lose money in the foreseeable future and we may not be able to achieve profitable operations. In order to achieve profitable operations, we need to generate more significant revenues and expand our customer base. We cannot be certain that our business will be successful or that we will generate significant revenues and become profitable. One customer accounts for all of our revenues. We provide EDGARization services to a small number of customers. We expect that those customers will continue to account for a large portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If our relationships with any of those customers were disrupted, we could lose a significant portion of our anticipated revenues. The nature of our EDGARizing business is highly cyclical and affected by conditions in capital markets, such that our operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, such as stock market fluctuations and overall trends in the economy. The EDGARizing industry is highly dependent on the volume of public financing and equity offerings and corporate reporting requirements. The corporate reporting revenue is seasonal as the greatest number of regulatory reports is required to be processed during the fiscal quarter ending March 31 and the second quarter ending June 30. Because of these cyclical and seasonal factors, coupled with the general need to complete certain processing jobs quickly after delivery of copy by customers, we may not be able to handle maximum workloads as we only have only full-time employee and one-part time employee. 5 The EDGARizing industry has been dominated by larger, more established service providers. We compete directly with a number of other document processors having the same degree of specialization. Some of these document processors, such as Bowne & Co., Inc., RR Donnelley & Sons Co. and Merrill Corporation, enjoy significant market share, operate at multiple locations and have greater financial resources than we do. We face competition from other EDGARizing services, as well as from corporate entities and law firms that provide their own in-house EDGARizing services. We are newly entering this market, therefore, we do not know if our services will generate widespread market acceptance. Several factors may contribute to our products and services not achieving broad market acceptance, which include: · failure to build brand recognition of Format; · increased competition among other EDGARizing providers; · failure to acquire, maintain and use state-of-the-art designing and computer equipment and document reformatting software; · failure or stagnation of the e-commerce industry; and · failure of clientele to use our EDGARizing services. The software and equipment we use in our EDGARizing business are subject to rapid technological change and could cause us to make significant capital investment in new equipment. Newer technologies, techniques or products for the delivery of EDGARizing services we offer could be developed with better performance than the computer equipment and software that we use. The availability of new and better technologies could require us to make significant investments in computer equipment and software, render our current computer equipment or software obsolete and have a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, technological changes, such as improvements or advancements in computer equipment or software could require a significant investment on our part to train our designers how to use these new applications. Significant decreases in EDGARizing prices could harm our business by decreasing the demand for our services, lowering the barriers to market entry and increasing market competitiveness. A significant reduction in the price of document reformatting computer equipment or software could reduce the demand for our services by making it economically more attractive for small reporting companies and law firms that are our primary target market to buy their own document reformatting computer equipment and software begin to compete with us. Furthermore, decreases in prices of document reformatting software and computer equipment could result in smaller business ceasing to use our services to perform basic EDGARizing projects. In addition, price decreases could force us to reduce our fees in response to this reduction in demand or as a means to remain competitive. We anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital to market our services. Our failure to raise additional capital will significantly affect our ability to fund our proposed activities. To actively market our services, we may be required to raise additional funds of approximately $50,000. We do not know if we will be able to acquire additional financing. We anticipate that we will spend significant funds on the marketing and promotion of our services. Our failure to obtain additional funds would significantly limit or eliminate our ability to fund our sales and marketing activities. If we are not able to fund our sales and marketing activities, our ability to increase our revenues will be significantly hindered. We have been relying, and expect to continue to rely, on Mr. Neely to provide interest free loans to pay for many of our expenses. We owe Mr. Neely a total of $116,656 as of December 31, 2010. We cannot guaranty that Mr. Neely will continue to provide interest free loans to us. Our officer and directors are engaged in other activities and could have conflicts of interest with us. Mr. Neely, our president, chief financial officer, secretary and sole director, engages in other activities unrelated to our operations. Our officer and directors may have conflicts of interest in allocating time, services, and functions between the other business ventures in which those persons may be or become involved. Our officer and directors may not have sufficient staff, consultants, employees, agents, contractors, and managers to adequately conduct our business. As a service-oriented company, we depend on the efforts and abilities of Ryan Neely to manage our operations and perform our EDGARization services. Our sole officer has not entered into an employment agreement with us. We currently do not maintain any life insurance for our sole officer or any of our directors. Our ability to provide services will depend on the continued services of Ryan Neely, our sole officer and one of our directors. Any loss of services provided by Ryan Neely would be particularly detrimental to us because, among other things, the loss would slow our growth, sever the relationships and contacts we maintain through Mr. Neely within the EDGARizing industry and deprive us of his experience. 6 Our auditors have questioned our ability to continue operations as a “going concern.” Investors may lose all of their investment if we are unable to continue operations. We hope to generate increased revenues and operate profitably. In the absence of generating significantly more revenues, we will seek to raise additional funds to meet our working capital needs principally through the additional sales of our securities. However, we cannot guaranty that we will be able to obtain sufficient additional funds when needed, or that such funds, if available, will be obtainable on terms satisfactory to us. As a result, our auditors believe that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue operations. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock We lack a public market for shares of our common stock, which may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares. No public market currently exists for our common stock, which is eligible for quotation on the Pink Sheets. We cannot guaranty that an active public market will develop or be sustained. Therefore, investors may not be able to find purchasers for their shares of our common stock. Purchasers of shares of our common stock may not realize any return on their purchase of our shares. Purchasers may lose their investments in us completely. Our officer, directors and principal security holders own approximately 80% of our outstanding shares of common stock, allowing these shareholders to exert significant influence in matters requiring approval of our shareholders. Our directors, officer and principal security holders, taken as a group, together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 80% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Our principal security holders may be able to exert significant influence, or even control, matters requiring approval by our security holders, including the election of directors. Such concentrated control may also make it difficult for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock in the event we merge with a third party or enter into a different transaction which requires shareholder approval. In addition, certain provisions of Nevada law could have the effect of making it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. Our common stock may be subject to penny stock regulations which may make it difficult for investors to sell their stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks”. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the Commission, which specifies information about penny stocks and the nature and significance of risks of the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements indicating the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. If our common stock becomes subject to the penny stock rules, holders of our shares may have difficulty selling those shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 7 