Risk Factors Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission include the risks described below. You should also refer to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto. Risks Relating to Our Business Uncertainty related to our estimated losses for Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma may materially impact our financial results. Our statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 include a pre-tax underwriting loss of $436.0 million from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. The loss estimate represents our best estimate based on the most recent information available. We used various approaches in estimating this loss, including a detailed review of exposed contracts and information from ceding companies. As additional information becomes available, such estimates may be revised, potentially resulting in adverse effects to our financial results. The extraordinary nature and scale of this loss, including legal and regulatory implications, adds substantial uncertainty and complexity to the estimating process. Considerable time may elapse before the adequacy of our estimates can be determined. Our estimates are subject to a high level of uncertainty arising out of extremely complex and unique causation and coverage issues, including the appropriate attribution of losses to flood as opposed to other perils such as wind, fire or riot and civil commotion. The underlying policies generally contain exclusions for flood damage; however, water damage caused by wind may be covered. We expect that causation and coverage issues may not be resolved for a considerable period of time and may be influenced by evolving legal and regulatory developments. 37 Table of Contents Our actual losses from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma may vary materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, an increase in industry insured loss estimates, the receipt of additional information from clients, the attribution of losses to coverages that for the purpose of our estimates we assumed would not be exposed, the contingent nature of business interruption exposures, and inflation in repair costs due to the limited availability of labor and materials, in which case our financial results could be further materially adversely affected. In addition, actual losses may increase if our reinsurers fail to meet their obligations. Based on our current estimate of losses related to Hurricane Katrina, we have limited retrocession protection with respect to Hurricane Katrina, meaning that we have limited retrocession coverage available should our Hurricane Katrina losses prove to be greater than currently estimated. We cannot be sure that retrocessional coverage will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, in the future. Our actual claims may exceed our claim reserves, causing us to incur losses we did not anticipate. Our success is dependent upon our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses that we reinsure or insure. If we fail to accurately assess the risks we assume, we may fail to establish appropriate premium rates and our reserves may be inadequate to cover our losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or reduce our net income. As of December 31, 2005, we had net unpaid losses and LAE of $3,910.9 million. We incurred losses and LAE of $2,061.6 million, $1,631.1 million and $1,336.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Reinsurance and insurance claim reserves represent estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of claims incurred. The process of establishing loss reserves is complex and imprecise because it is subject to variables that are influenced by significant judgmental factors. We utilize both proprietary and commercially available actuarial models as well as historical industry loss development patterns to assist in the establishment of appropriate claim reserves. In contrast to casualty losses, which frequently can be determined only through lengthy and unpredictable litigation, non-casualty property losses tend to be reported promptly and usually are settled within a shorter period of time. Nevertheless, for both casualty and property losses, actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements. In addition, because we, like other reinsurers, do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under our reinsurance treaties, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. If our claim reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase claim reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is rectified. It is possible that claims in respect of events that have occurred could exceed our claim reserves and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular period or our financial condition. Even though most insurance contracts have policy limits, the nature of property and casualty insurance and reinsurance is that losses can exceed policy limits for a variety of reasons and could significantly exceed the premiums received on the underlying policies. Unpredictable natural and man-made catastrophic events could cause unanticipated losses and reduce our net income. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including natural events such as hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe winter weather and fires, and unnatural events such as acts of war, terrorist attacks, explosions and riots. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, windstorms and earthquakes may produce significant damage in large, heavily populated areas, and 38 Table of Contents most of our past catastrophe-related claims have resulted from severe storms. Catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of property and casualty lines for which we provide reinsurance. Insurance companies are not permitted to reserve for a catastrophe until it has occurred. It is therefore possible that a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial condition. It is possible that our models have not adequately captured some catastrophe risks or other risks. We believe it is impossible to completely eliminate our exposure to unforeseen or unpredictable events. If we are unable to maintain a favorable financial strength rating, certain existing business may be subject to termination, and it may be more difficult for us to write new business. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of reinsurers and insurers based upon criteria established by the rating agencies. Periodically the rating agencies evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. The claims-paying ability ratings assigned by rating agencies to reinsurance or insurance companies represent independent opinions of financial strength and ability to meet policyholder obligations, and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Ratings by rating agencies are not ratings of securities or recommendations to buy, hold or sell any security. In the event our companies were to be downgraded by any or all of the rating agencies, some of our business would be subject to provisions which could cause, among other things, early termination of contracts, or a requirement to post collateral at the direction of our counterparty. We cannot precisely estimate the amount of premium that would be at risk to such a development, or the amount of additional collateral that might be required to maintain existing business, as these amounts would depend on the particular facts and circumstances at the time, including the degree of the downgrade, the time elapsed on the impacted in-force policies, and the effects of any related catastrophic event on the industry generally. We cannot assure you that our premiums would not decline, or that our profitability would not be affected, perhaps materially, following a ratings downgrade. Our principal operating subsidiaries maintain a rating of “A” (Excellent) from A.M. Best, an “A-” (Strong) counterparty credit and financial strength rating from Standard & Poor’s and an “A3” (Good Financial Security) financial strength rating from Moody’s. Financial strength ratings are used by insurers and reinsurance and insurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of reinsurers. Following our announcement on March 16, 2006 that the filing of our annual report on Form 10-K would be delayed in connection with the restatement of our consolidated financial results, Standard & Poor’s placed on CreditWatch with negative implications our counterparty credit, senior unsecured debt and preferred stock ratings and the financial strength ratings of our principal operating subsidiaries. In addition, Moody’s revised from “stable” to “negative” the outlook for our senior debt and preferred stock and the insurance financial strength ratings of our principal operating subsidiaries. Further, A.M. Best placed under review with negative implications our debt ratings and the financial strength ratings of our principal operating subsidiaries. If we are unable to realize our investment objectives, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability and our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. Accordingly, fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our profitability, financial condition or cash flows. We derive our investment income from interest and dividends, together with realized gains on the sale of investment assets. The portion derived from realized gains generally fluctuates from year to year. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, net realized gains accounted for 27.3%, 40.6% and 60.2%, respectively, of our total investment income (including realized gains and losses). Realized gains are typically a less predictable source of investment income than interest and dividends, particularly in the short term. The return on our portfolio and the risks associated with our investments are also affected by our asset mix, which can change materially depending on market conditions. Investments in cash or short-term investments generally produce a lower return than other investments. As of December 31, 2005, 29.1%, or $1.7 billion, of our 39 Table of Contents invested assets were held in cash and short-term investments pending our identifying suitable opportunities for reinvestment in line with our long-term value-oriented investment philosophy. The volatility of our claims submissions may force us to liquidate securities, which may cause us to incur capital losses. If we structure our investments improperly relative to our liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such liabilities. Realized and unrealized investment losses resulting from an other than temporary decline in value could significantly decrease our assets, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. Our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. The ability to achieve our investment objectives is affected by general economic conditions that are beyond our control. General economic conditions can adversely affect the markets for interest-rate-sensitive securities, including the extent and timing of investor participation in such markets, the level and volatility of interest rates and, consequently, the value of fixed income securities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors can also adversely affect the equities markets and, consequently, the value of the equity securities we own. We may not be able to realize our investment objectives, which could reduce our net income significantly. Investigations by U.S. government authorities may adversely affect us. On September 7, 2005, we announced that we had been advised by Fairfax, our majority shareholder, that it had received a subpoena from the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) requesting documents regarding any non-traditional insurance and reinsurance transactions entered into or offered by Fairfax and any of its affiliates, which included OdysseyRe. The United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York is reviewing documents provided to the SEC in response to the subpoena, and is participating in the investigation into these matters. In addition, we have provided information and made a presentation to the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s office relating to the restatement of our financial results announced by us on February 9, 2006. We are cooperating fully in addressing our obligations under this subpoena. Fairfax, and Fairfax’s chairman and chief executive officer, V. Prem Watsa, who is also the chairman of OdysseyRe, have received subpoenas from the SEC in connection with the answer to a question on Fairfax’s February 10, 2006 investor conference call concerning the review of Fairfax’s finite contracts. Our independent registered public accountants have received a subpoena from the SEC relating to the above matters. This inquiry is ongoing, and we continue to comply with requests from the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s office. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to further requests or other regulatory proceedings of a similar kind. It is possible that other governmental and enforcement agencies will seek to review this information as well, or that we, or other parties with whom we interact, such as customers or shareholders, may become subject to direct requests for information or other inquiries by such agencies. The outcome and ultimate effect on our consolidated financial statements of these matters, including questions by the SEC with respect to our accounting for these transactions, cannot be predicted at the present time; however, such effects could be material and adverse. The financial cost to us to address these matters has been and is likely to continue to be significant. We expect that these matters will continue to require significant management attention, which could divert management’s attention away from our business. Our business, or the market price for our securities, also could be materially adversely affected by negative publicity related to this inquiry or similar proceedings, if any. Certain business practices of the insurance industry have become the subject of investigations by government authorities and the subject of class action litigation. Recently, the insurance industry has experienced substantial volatility as a result of current investigations, litigation and regulatory activity by various insurance, governmental and enforcement authorities concerning certain practices within the insurance industry. These practices include the payment of contingent commissions by insurance companies to insurance brokers and agents and the extent to which such compensation has been disclosed, the solicitation and provision of fictitious or inflated quotes, the alleged illegal tying of the placement 40 Table of Contents of insurance business to the purchase of reinsurance, and the sale and purchase of finite reinsurance or other non-traditional or loss mitigation insurance products and the accounting treatment for those products. We have received inquiries and informational requests from insurance departments in certain states in which our insurance subsidiaries operate. We cannot predict at this time the effect that current investigations, litigation and regulatory activity will have on the reinsurance industry or our business. Our involvement in any investigations and related lawsuits would cause us to incur legal costs and, if we were found to have violated any laws, we could be required to pay fines and damages, perhaps in material amounts. In addition, we could be materially adversely affected by the negative publicity for the insurance industry related to these proceedings, and by any new industry-wide regulations or practices that may result from these proceedings. It is possible that these investigations or related regulatory developments will mandate changes in industry practices in a fashion that increases our costs of doing business or requires us to alter aspects of the manner in which we conduct our business. We operate in a highly competitive environment which could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain business. The reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete, and will continue to compete, with major United States and non-United States reinsurers and certain underwriting syndicates and insurers, some of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. In addition, we may not be aware of other companies that may be planning to enter the reinsurance market or existing reinsurers that may be planning to raise additional capital. Competition in the types of reinsurance business that we underwrite is based on many factors, including premiums charged and other terms and conditions offered, services provided, financial ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of claims payment, reputation, perceived financial strength and the experience of the reinsurer in the line of reinsurance to be written. Increased competition could cause us and other reinsurance providers to charge lower premium rates and obtain less favorable policy terms, which could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and grow our business. We also are aware that other financial institutions, such as banks, are now able to offer services similar to our own. In addition, we have recently seen the creation of alternative products from capital market participants that are intended to compete with reinsurance products. We are unable to predict the extent to which these new, proposed or potential initiatives may affect the demand for our products or the risks that may be available for us to consider underwriting. Our primary insurance is a business segment that is growing, and the primary insurance business is also highly competitive. Primary insurers compete on the basis of factors including selling effort, product, price, service and financial strength. We seek primary insurance pricing that will result in adequate returns on the capital allocated to our primary insurance business. Our business plans for these business units could be adversely impacted by the loss of primary insurance business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. This competition could affect our ability to attract and retain business. Emerging claim and coverage issues could adversely affect our business. Unanticipated developments in the law as well as changes in social and environmental conditions could result in unexpected claims for coverage under our insurance and reinsurance contracts. These developments and changes may adversely affect us, perhaps materially. For example, we could be subject to developments that impose additional coverage obligations on us beyond our underwriting intent, or to increases in the number or size of claims to which we are subject. With respect to our casualty businesses, these legal, social and environmental changes may not become apparent until some time after their occurrence. Our exposure to these uncertainties could be exacerbated by the increased willingness of some market participants to dispute insurance and reinsurance contract and policy wordings. The full effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. As a result, the full extent of our liability under our coverages, and in particular our casualty insurance policies and reinsurance contracts, may not be known for many years after a policy or contract is issued. Our exposure to this uncertainty will grow as our “long-tail” casualty businesses grow, because in these lines of 41 Table of Contents business claims can typically be made for many years, making them more susceptible to these trends than in the property insurance business, which is more typically “short-tail.” In addition, we could be adversely affected by the growing trend of plaintiffs targeting participants in the property-liability insurance industry in purported class action litigation relating to claim handling and other practices. If our current and potential customers change their requirements with respect to financial strength, claims paying ratings or counterparty collateral requirements, our profitability could be adversely affected. Insureds, insurers and insurance and reinsurance intermediaries use financial ratings as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers and reinsurers. In addition, the rating of a company purchasing reinsurance may be affected by the rating of its reinsurer. For these reasons, credit committees of insurance and reinsurance companies regularly review and in some cases revise their requirements with respect to the insurers and reinsurers from whom they purchase insurance and reinsurance. If one or more of our current or potential customers were to raise their minimum required financial strength or claims paying ratings above the ratings held by us or our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, or if they were to materially increase their collateral requirements, the demand for our products could be reduced, our premiums could decline, and our profitability could be adversely affected. Consolidation in the insurance industry could lead to lower margins for us and less demand for our reinsurance products. Many insurance industry participants are consolidating to enhance their market power. These entities may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. If competitive pressures compel us to reduce our prices, our operating margins would decrease. As the insurance industry consolidates, competition for customers will become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, further reducing our operating margins. In addition, insurance companies that merge may be able to spread their risks across a consolidated, larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance. A change in demand for reinsurance and insurance could lead to reduced premium rates and less favorable contract terms, which could reduce our net income. Historically, we have experienced fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting results of primary insurers and prevailing general economic conditions. In addition, the larger insurers created by the consolidation discussed above may require less reinsurance. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices and levels of surplus capacity that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return being realized in the reinsurance industry. It is possible that premium rates or other terms and conditions of trade could vary in the future, that the present level of demand will not continue or that the present level of supply of reinsurance could increase as a result of capital provided by recent or future market entrants or by existing reinsurers. General pricing across the industry and other terms and conditions have become less favorable than they have been in the recent past, the degree to which varies by class of business and region. All of these factors can reduce our profitability and we have no way to determine to what extent they will impact us in the future. 42 Table of Contents Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited owns a majority of our common shares and can determine the outcome of our corporate actions requiring board or shareholder approval. Fairfax beneficially owns, through wholly owned subsidiaries, 80.2% of our outstanding common shares. Consequently, Fairfax can determine the outcome of our corporate actions requiring board or shareholder approval, such as: • appointing officers and electing members of our Board of Directors; • adopting amendments to our charter documents; and • approving a merger or consolidation, liquidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, Fairfax has provided us, and continues to provide us, with certain services for which it receives customary compensation. Through various subsidiaries, Fairfax engages in the business of underwriting insurance as well as other financial services; and from time to time, we may engage in transactions with those other businesses in the ordinary course of business under market terms and conditions. At December 31, 2005, all of our directors other than Mr. Barnard also were directors or officers of Fairfax or certain of its subsidiaries. Conflicts of interest could arise between us and Fairfax or one of its other subsidiaries, and any conflict of interest may be resolved in a manner that does not favor us. Fairfax has stated that it intends to retain control of us and cannot foresee any circumstances under which it would sell a sufficient number of our common shares to cause it not to retain such control. Any decision regarding the ownership of us that Fairfax may make at some future time will be in its absolute discretion. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write business, and rating agency capital requirements. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to meet these requirements, we may need to raise additional funds through financings. Any financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The current agreements governing our $150 million bank credit facility and our 7.49% senior notes due 2006 (of which $40.0 million in principal amount remain outstanding) contain certain covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell assets, merge or consolidate. These agreements also require us to maintain specific financial ratios. If we fail to comply with these covenants or meet these financial ratios, the lenders under our credit facility or our noteholders could declare a default and demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to them. We are a holding company and are dependent on dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries, which are subject to dividend restrictions. We are a holding company, and our principal source of funds is cash dividends and other permitted payments from our operating subsidiaries, principally Odyssey America. If we are unable to receive dividends from our operating subsidiaries, or if they are able to pay only limited amounts, we may be unable to pay dividends or make payments on our indebtedness. The payment of dividends by our operating subsidiaries is subject to restrictions set forth in the insurance laws and regulations of Connecticut, Delaware, New York and the United Kingdom. See “Regulatory Matters — Regulation of Insurers and Reinsurers — Dividends.” 43 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key employees. We are substantially dependent on a small number of key employees, in particular Andrew Barnard, Robert Giammarco and Michael Wacek. We believe that the experience and reputations in the reinsurance industry of Messrs. Barnard, Giammarco and Wacek are important factors in our ability to attract new business. We have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Barnard and Wacek and are in the process of entering into an employment agreement with Mr. Giammarco. Our success has been, and will continue to be, dependent on our ability to retain the services of our existing key employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of Mr. Barnard, Mr. Giammarco or Mr. Wacek or any other key employee, or the inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the quality and profitability of our business operations. We do not currently maintain key employee insurance with respect to any of our employees. Our business is primarily dependent upon a limited number of unaffiliated reinsurance brokers and the loss of business provided by them could adversely affect our business. We market our reinsurance products worldwide primarily through reinsurance brokers, as well as directly to our customers. Five reinsurance brokerage firms accounted for 62.7% of our reinsurance gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2005. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by these brokers could have a material adverse effect on us. Our reliance on payments through reinsurance brokers exposes us to credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owing in respect of claims under our policies to reinsurance brokers, for payment over to the ceding insurers. In the event that a broker fails to make such a payment, depending on the jurisdiction, we might remain liable to the ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the ceding insurer pays premiums for such policies to reinsurance brokers for payment over to us, such premiums will be deemed to have been paid and the ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received such premiums. Consequently, in connection with the settlement of reinsurance balances, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world. We may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. Our functional currency is the United States dollar. A portion of our premiums are written in currencies other than the United States dollar and a portion of our loss reserves are also in foreign currencies. Moreover, we maintain a portion of our investments in currencies other than the United States dollar. We may, from time to time, experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies, which could adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to alleviate risk successfully through retrocessional arrangements and we are subject to credit risks with respect to our retrocessionaires. We attempt to limit our risk of loss through retrocessional arrangements, reinsurance agreements with other reinsurers referred to as retrocessionaires. The availability and cost of retrocessional protection is subject to market conditions, which are beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through retrocessional arrangements. In addition, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our retrocessions because the ceding of risk to retrocessionaires does not relieve us of our liability to the companies we reinsured. We purchase reinsurance coverage to insure against a portion of our risk on policies we write directly. We expect that limiting our insurance risks through reinsurance will continue to be important to us. Reinsurance does not affect our direct liability to our policyholders on the business we write. A reinsurer’s insolvency or inability or unwillingness to make timely payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we cannot assure you that reinsurance will remain available to us to the same extent and on the same terms as are currently available. 44 Table of Contents The growth of our primary insurance business, which is regulated more comprehensively than reinsurance, increases our exposure to adverse political, judicial and legal developments. Hudson, which writes insurance in 44 states and the District of Columbia on an admitted basis, is subject to extensive regulation under state statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance commissioners. Such regulation generally is designed to protect policyholders rather than investors, and relates to such matters as: rate setting; limitations on dividends and transactions with affiliates; solvency standards which must be met and maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the examination of the affairs of insurance companies, which includes periodic market conduct examinations by the regulatory authorities; annual and other reports, prepared on a statutory accounting basis; establishment and maintenance of reserves for unearned premiums and losses; and requirements regarding numerous other matters. We could be required to allocate considerable time and resources to comply with these requirements, and could be adversely affected if a regulatory authority believed we had failed to comply with applicable law or regulation. We plan to grow Hudson’s business and, accordingly, expect our regulatory burden to increase. Our utilization of program managers and other third parties to support our business exposes us to operational and financial risks. Our primary insurance operations rely on program managers, and other agents and brokers participating in our programs, to produce and service a substantial portion of our business in this segment. In these arrangements, we typically grant the program manager the right to bind us to newly issued insurance policies, subject to underwriting guidelines we provide and other contractual restrictions and obligations. Should our managers issue policies that contravene these guidelines, restrictions or obligations, we could nonetheless be deemed liable for such policies. Although we would intend to resist claims that exceed or expand on our underwriting intention, it is possible that we would not prevail in such an action, or that our program managers would be unable to substantially indemnify us for their contractual breach. We also rely on our managers, or other third parties we retain, to collect premiums and to pay valid claims. This exposes us to their credit and operational risk, without necessarily relieving us of our obligations to potential insureds. We could also be exposed to potential liabilities relating to the claims practices of the third party administrators we have retained to manage claims activity that we expect to arise in our program operations. Although we have implemented monitoring and other oversight protocols, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to alleviate all of these exposures. We are also subject to the risk that our successful program managers will not renew their programs with us. Our contracts are generally for defined terms of as little as one year, and either party can cancel the contract in a relatively short period of time. We cannot assure you that we will retain the programs that produce profitable business or that our insureds will renew with us. Failure to retain or replace these producers would impair our ability to execute our growth strategy, and our financial results could be adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected as a result of political, regulatory, economic or other influences in the insurance and reinsurance industries. The insurance industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. These factors affect the practices and operation of insurance and reinsurance organizations. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the United States insurance system at both the federal and state level. Recently, the insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework has been subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the United States and various states in the United States. Changes in current insurance regulation may include increased governmental involvement in the insurance industry or may otherwise change the business and economic environment in which insurance industry participants operate. In the United States, for example, the states of Hawaii and Florida have implemented arrangements whereby property insurance in catastrophe prone areas is provided through state-sponsored entities. The California Earthquake Authority, the first privately financed, publicly operated residential earthquake insurance pool, provides earthquake insurance to California homeowners. 45 Table of Contents Such changes could cause us to make unplanned modifications of products or services, or may result in delays or cancellations of sales of products and services by insurers or reinsurers. Insurance industry participants may respond to changes by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our products and services. We cannot predict the future impact of changing law or regulation on our operations; any changes could have a material adverse effect on us or the insurance industry in general. Increasingly, governmental authorities in both the U.S. and worldwide appear to be interested in the potential risks posed by the reinsurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. While we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, we believe it is likely there will be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future. For example, we could be adversely affected by governmental or regulatory proposals that: • provide insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we target; • require our participation in industry pools and guaranty associations; • mandate the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies; or • disproportionately benefit the companies of one country or jurisdiction over those of another. Our computer and data processing systems may fail or be perceived to be insecure, which could adversely affect our business and damage our customer relationships. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our computer and data processing systems. We rely on these systems to perform actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for writing business, as well as to process and make claims payments. We have a highly trained staff that is committed to the continual development and maintenance of these systems. However, the failure of these systems could interrupt our operations or materially impact our ability to rapidly evaluate and commit to new business opportunities. If sustained or repeated, a system failure could result in the loss of existing or potential business relationships, or compromise our ability to pay claims in a timely manner. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business results. Our insurance may not adequately compensate us for material losses that may occur due to disruptions in our service as a result of computer and data processing systems failure. We do not maintain redundant systems or facilities for all of our services. In addition, a security breach of our computer systems could damage our reputation or result in liability. We retain confidential information regarding our business dealings in our computer systems. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter people from conducting transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to our systems. Therefore, it is critical that these facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. Despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. In addition, we could be subject to liability if hackers were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate confidential information. We could be adversely affected if the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 is not renewed beyond 2007, or is adversely amended. In response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance markets resulting from, among other things, the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, or TRIA, was enacted to ensure the availability of commercial insurance coverage for terrorist acts in the United States. This law initially established a federal assistance program through the end of 2005 to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses and required that coverage for terrorist acts be offered by insurers. Although TRIA recently has been modified and extended through 2007, it is possible that TRIA will not be renewed beyond 2007, or could be adversely amended, which could adversely 46 Table of Contents affect the insurance industry if a material subsequent event occurred. Given these uncertainties, we are currently unable to determine with certainty the impact that TRIA’s amendment or non-renewal could have on us. Risks Related to Our Common Shares Because our controlling shareholder intends to retain control, you may be unable to realize a gain on your investment in our common shares in connection with an acquisition bid. Fairfax, through its subsidiaries, TIG Insurance Group, TIG Insurance Company, ORH Holdings Inc., United States Fire Insurance Company, Fairfax Financial (US) LLC and Fairfax Inc., owns 80.2% of our outstanding common shares. Consequently, Fairfax is in a position to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring board or shareholder approval, including: • appointing officers and electing members of our Board of Directors; • adopting amendments to our charter documents; and • approving a merger or consolidation, liquidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. At December 31, 2005 all of our directors other than Mr. Barnard were directors or officers of Fairfax or certain of its subsidiaries. Conflicts of interest could arise between us and Fairfax or one of its subsidiaries, and any conflict of interest may be resolved in a manner that does not favor us. Fairfax has stated that it intends to retain control of us and cannot foresee any circumstances under which it would sell a sufficient number of our common shares to cause it not to retain such control. In order to retain control, Fairfax may decide not to enter into a transaction in which our shareholders would receive consideration for their shares that is much higher than the cost of their investment in our common shares or the then current market price of our common shares. Any decision regarding the ownership of us that Fairfax may make at some future time will be in its absolute discretion. Significant fluctuation in the market price of our common shares could result in securities class action claims against us. Significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the securities of insurance and insurance-related companies. Our common share price is likely to be volatile in the future. In the past, following periods of downward volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, class action litigation has often been pursued against such companies. If similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may impede attempts to replace or remove our management or inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in our management or a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable and may prevent you from receiving a takeover premium for your shares. These provisions include, for example, • authorizing the issuance of preferred shares, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at meetings; and • providing that special meetings of shareholders may be called only by our Board of Directors, the chairman of our Board of Directors, our president or our secretary. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some of our shareholders. If a change in management or a change of control is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common shares could decline. 47 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 