1A Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements are also included in our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, our Schedule 14A, our press releases and other statements released to the public. Although we believe that at the time made, the expectations reflected in all of these forward-looking statements are and will be reasonable, any or all of the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, our Schedule 14A and any other public statements that are made by us may prove to be incorrect. This may occur as a result of inaccurate assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, certain of which are beyond our control, will be important in determining our future performance. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from those that might be anticipated from forward-looking statements. In light of these and other uncertainties, you should not regard the inclusion of a forward-looking statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other public communications that we might make as a representation by us that our plans and objectives will be achieved, and you should not place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, your attention is directed to any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 10-Q and 8-K and Schedule 14A. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our,” “SWRG” and the “Company” refer specifically to The Smith & Wollensky Restaurant Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries and predecessor entities. 3 Item 1. Business. General The Smith & Wollensky Restaurant Group, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in October 1997. Prior to October 1997, our operations were conducted through The New York Restaurant Group, LLC (“NYRG”), our predecessor limited liability company. During October 1997, NYRG merged with SWRG. We are a developer, owner and operator of high-end, high-volume restaurants in the United States. Our core concept is Smith & Wollensky, a classic American restaurant. Management believes Smith & Wollensky is a recognized brand name in the upscale segment of the restaurant industry. At January 1, 2007, we operated 14 restaurants, eleven of which were owned and three of which were managed. We own eight of the nine Smith & Wollensky restaurants we operate. In addition we own a Smith & Wollensky unit in New Orleans, Louisiana (“S&W of New Orleans”), which closed on August 29, 2005 due to Hurricane Katrina and a Smith & Wollensky unit in Dallas, Texas (“S&W of Dallas”), which closed on December 31, 2006 because it was unable to achieve a level of income from operations that was in line with our expectations. At January 1, 2007, both S&W of New Orleans and S&W of Dallas were listed as available for sale. We are currently under contract to sell the property for the Smith & Wollensky in Dallas for $3.9 million, less commission and other expenses of approximately $250,000. We plan on closing on the sale of the Dallas property during the beginning of April 2007. We also own our new concept, Quality Meats, a contemporary American restaurant that is located in the space previously occupied by the Manhattan Ocean Club. We closed the Manhattan Ocean Club on January 1, 2006 and opened Quality Meats on April 10, 2006. In 1977, the original Smith & Wollensky restaurant, which we manage, opened in New York City. Three years later, we developed The Post House, a distinctive steak and chop house with an American theme that we currently manage. In 1989, we opened Cité, a Parisian grand-café style restaurant. The Park Avenue Café concept, begun in 1992, combines seasonal new American cuisine in a café atmosphere, while Maloney & Porcelli, which we developed in 1996 and currently manage, presents updated classic American cuisine. Our owned and managed restaurants have received local and national dining awards, including the Distinguished Restaurants of North America “DiRoNA Award” and Wine Spectator’s “Grand Award.” For the year ended January 1, 2007, the average sales for our nine owned Smith & Wollensky restaurants open for the entire period were $10.3 million per restaurant. Sales for the year ended January 1, 2007 for the managed Smith & Wollensky restaurant in New York were $26.7 million, for which we received $613,000 as a management fee. For the year ended January 1, 2007, average sales for all of our twelve consolidated restaurants open for the full period (which includes the sales for Maloney & Porcelli, a restaurant we manage) were $9.9 million per restaurant. We believe that each of our restaurants offers distinctive high quality food, creative menus, an extensive wine selection and exceptional customer service accompanied by attractive design and decor. We believe that the Smith & Wollensky and Wollensky’s Grill restaurant concepts have broad national appeal and that, as a result, we have considerable opportunities to expand our business. We believe that we currently operate in one business segment. Possible Acquisition of SWRG and Related Transactions Proposed Merger with Patina Restaurant Group, LLC On February 26, 2007, Patina Restaurant Group, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Patina”), SWRG Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Patina (“Patina Sub”) and SWRG, entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”). Under the terms of the Merger Agreement and subject to satisfaction or waiver of the conditions therein, Patina Sub will merge with and into SWRG, with SWRG surviving (the “Merger”). As a result of the 4 Merger, SWRG would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Patina (the “Surviving Corporation”). At the effective time of the Merger, each share of SWRG’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Common Stock”), issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (other than any shares owned by stockholders who are entitled to and who properly exercise appraisal rights under Delaware law) shall be canceled and converted into the right to receive from the Surviving Corporation $9.25 in cash without interest less any required withholding tax. The board of directors of SWRG (the “Board”) approved the Merger Agreement following the unanimous recommendation of a committee of the Board comprised entirely of independent directors (the “Special Committee”). The consummation of the Merger is conditioned upon, among other things, the adoption of the Merger Agreement by the stockholders of SWRG, regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Pursuant to Delaware General Corporation Law and SWRG’s charter, the Merger must be approved by the holders of a majority of the shares of the outstanding Common Stock. In addition, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Merger must be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock present or voting by proxy at the stockholder meeting relating to the Merger (not including any shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by Mr. Alan Stillman). SWRG, Patina and Patina Sub have made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the Merger Agreement. Among other things, SWRG may not solicit competing proposals or, subject to exceptions that permit the Special Committee or the Board to comply with their fiduciary duties, participate in any discussions or negotiations regarding alternative proposals. The Merger Agreement may be terminated under certain circumstances, including if the Special Committee or the Board has determined that it intends to enter into a transaction with respect to a superior proposal and the Company otherwise complies with certain terms of the Merger Agreement. Upon the termination of the Merger Agreement, under specified circumstances, SWRG will be required to reimburse Patina for its transaction expenses up to $600,000 and, under specified circumstances, SWRG will be required to pay Patina a termination fee of $2.5 million. The Common Stock is currently registered under the Exchange Act and is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol “SWRG.” If the Merger is completed, the Common Stock will be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market and will be deregistered under the Exchange Act. Proposed Transaction Between Patina and Alan N. Stillman, SWRG’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer As an inducement for Patina to enter into the Merger Agreement, Patina and Alan N. Stillman, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, entered into an agreement dated February 26, 2007 (the “Stillman Agreement”). Pursuant to the Stillman Agreement, immediately after the closing of the Merger, Mr. Stillman or his designees (the “Stillman Group”) will acquire certain assets from the Company consisting of real property owned by the Company in Dallas and New Orleans, the leases relating to three New York City restaurants (Quality Meats, Cité and Park Avenue Cafe), the management agreements relating to three New York City restaurants (Smith & Wollensky, Maloney & Porcelli and Post House), the lease of the Company’s headquarters in New York and all assets relating to the foregoing. In consideration for such purchase, the Stillman Group will pay $5.3 million in cash and/or stock of the Company, plus assume numerous liabilities and contingent obligations of the Company, including the following: any sales, real property transfer or income taxes relating to the acquisition; mortgages on properties in New Orleans and Miami aggregating approximately $3.2 million; $800,000 of capital lease obligations; all expenses of the Company relating to the Merger, including legal, accounting, proxy fees, severance, change of control and other payments to employees of the Company estimated to exceed an aggregate of $4 million; contingent obligations under various lawsuits (in amounts which cannot presently be determined); certain capital improvements and other costs relating to the Smith & Wollensky 5 restaurant in Las Vegas and to the Company generally; and all known and unknown obligations or liabilities relating to the assets to be acquired. Voting Agreement On February 26, 2007, in connection with the Merger, Alan N. Stillman, Stillman’s First, Inc., La Cite, Inc., White & Witkowksy, Inc., Thursdays Supper Pub, Inc., Alan N. Stillman Grantor Retained Annuity Trust and the Donna Stillman Trust entered into a voting agreement with Patina (the “Voting Agreement”) pursuant to which such persons have agreed to vote all their shares of Common Stock in favor of the Merger and against any action or agreement that would result in a breach by the Company under the Merger Agreement or would impede or interfere with the Merger. The Voting Agreement will terminate upon termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms. Amendment to License Agreement As a condition to entering into the Merger Agreement, Patina required that St. James Associates, L.P. (“St. James”) agree to amend various provisions of the amended and restated sale and license agreement dated January 1, 2006 between St. James and SWRG (the “License Agreement”). Mr. Stillman and an unrelated party are the general partners of St. James. In order to effectuate this amendment, the consent of both general partners was required. On February 26, 2007, Patina and St. James entered into a letter agreement (the “Letter Agreement”) pursuant to which the License Agreement will be amended effective on the closing of the Merger to effectuate the following: Patina has agreed to open at least two new Smith & Wollensky restaurants and to open or make advance payments of additional royalty payments for two additional such restaurants within six years; St. James will eliminate the 1% royalty fee on all restaurant and non-restaurant sales at any steakhouse owned or operated by Patina or its affiliates if such restaurant does not use the Smith & Wollensky name and is located in specified countries in Asia, provided such royalty will continue to be payable until Patina has fulfilled its build-out obligations; St. James agreed to eliminate the posting by assignees of a letter of credit in connection with the assignment of the License Agreement; and St. James agreed to other technical amendments. Based on Patina’s representations to St. James that the principals of Parent are reputable restaurant operators that have managed high quality fine dining restaurants continuously for at least five years and that Patina is a nationally known reputable company active in the food service business, St. James acknowledged that the Merger Agreement is expressly permitted by the License Agreement. For additional information relating to the License Agreement, See “—Service Marks, Trademarks and License Agreements.” Additional Bidder for SWRG On Friday, March 16, 2007, the Company received an unsolicited proposal from Landry’s Restaurants, Inc. (“Landry’s”) to acquire the company at $9.75 per share. As of the date hereof, Landry’s has refused to execute a confidentiality and standstill agreement on the terms required by the Merger Agreement. As a result, the Company is unable to provide Landry’s with non-public information. The Special Committee of the Company’s Board is continuing to evaluate the terms and conditions of the proposal received from Landry’s, consistent with its fiduciary duties to the Company’s stockholders and the no-solicitation provisions of the Merger Agreement. Recent Developments Renewal of Lease at Park Avenue Café and Sale of Townhouse On December 14, 2006, SWRG through its affiliate, Atlantic & Pacific Grill Associates, L.L.C. (“A&P”), entered into (i) a Third Modification and Renewal of Lease (the “Café Lease Renewal”) with Beekman Tenants Corporation (“Beekman”) for the Park Avenue Café restaurant (the “Café”) and (ii) a 6 Contract of Sale Agreement with Beekman (the “Townhouse Sale Agreement”) with respect to the Park Avenue Café Townhouse, a location adjacent to the Café that is used to facilitate private dining events (the “Townhouse”). The Café Lease Renewal extends the term of the lease until January 15, 2017 and increases the fixed minimum rent to $500,000 for the first lease year, with annual increases as defined. In addition, the Café Lease Renewal requires us to make $300,000 of improvements to the leased space by September 30, 2007. In conjunction with the sale of the Townhouse, which is scheduled to close on or about September 30, 2007, we plan on entering into a Fourth Modification with Beekman whereby we would leaseback the Townhouse for an additional rent starting at $100,000 per annum, with annual increases as defined. Due to the Café Lease Renewal, the Café, which had been scheduled to close on January 1, 2007, will remain open. Settlement of Litigation Relating to Cité; Closure of Cité As of January 31, 2007, La Cité Associates, L.P. (“Cité Associates”), a subsidiary of SWRG, entered into a Settlement Agreement and certain related documents with Rockefeller Center North, Inc., the landlord (“Landlord”) of the restaurant space occupied by the Cité restaurant (“Cité”) in New York City. The Settlement Agreement, among things, settled the lawsuit in which the Landlord alleged that Cité Associates was obligated to pay, but had not paid, percentage rent since January 1, 2001, with the Landlord acknowledging that Cité Associates was not, and to the end of the original lease term ( i.e. , September 30, 2009) will not be, obligated to pay any percentage rent. In addition, unrelated to the lawsuit, on January 31, 2007, we adopted a plan to close Cité to the public on April 2, 2007 because it was unable to achieve a level of income from operations that was in line with our expectations. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, Cité is required to make a one-time settlement payment to the Landlord of $85,000 and will then receive its $100,000 letter of credit posted with the Landlord as a security deposit under the lease. Cité Associates also agreed to terminate its lease for Cite and vacate the premises by April 6, 2007. Operating Strategy We believe that the key to our future success is our Smith & Wollensky and Wollensky’s Grill restaurant concepts that are focused on the middle to high-end segment of the restaurant industry. To achieve our goal, we are pursuing the following operating and growth strategies and will continue to pursue them until the consummation of the Merger or we are otherwise acquired, if and when that occurs: Pursue Disciplined Restaurant Growth in 2008 and Beyond Although we do not have any leases signed other than leases relating to our existing locations, we plan to resume our growth in 2008 with the launch of our first free-standing Wollensky’s Grill (individually, a “Grill” and collectively, “Grills”). We plan to open a total of three to four Grills from 2008 to 2009. The menus and atmosphere of the Grills will be updated from the original Wollensky’s Grill, which opened in 1980, adjacent to the flagship Smith & Wollensky location in New York City. Although the growth focus will be on opening Grills, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to open Smith & Wollensky units. Our cash investment for each of our owned Smith & Wollensky restaurants open as of December 31, 2006, net of landlord contributions, averaged approximately $6.8 million, excluding pre-opening costs, and our Smith and Wollensky restaurants averaged approximately 19,000 square feet. We expect that each new free-standing Grill will range between 7,000 and 9,000 square feet and will require a cash investment of approximately $2.5 million, net of landlord contributions and excluding pre-opening expenses. The estimate of the amount of our cash investment assumes that the property on which each new unit is located is being leased and is dependent on the size of the location and the amount of the landlord contribution. 7 Focus on Locations We believe that the locations of our restaurants are critical to our long-term success, and we devote significant time and resources to analyzing each prospective site. In general, we prefer to open our Smith & Wollensky restaurants on sites near central business districts within larger metropolitan areas. For our Grill concept, we plan on evaluating sites not only within larger metropolitan areas, but also within midsize communities. In addition to carefully analyzing demographic information for each prospective site, management considers factors such as visibility, traffic patterns, accessibility, adequacy of parking facilities, tourist volume, volume of business travelers, convention business, local competition, and proximity to shopping areas, office towers, parks and hotels. Improve Operating Cash Flows We will focus on increasing our cash position by improving our operating cash flows, while limiting our maintenance capital expenditures on existing Smith & Wollensky restaurants. We intend to further increase our operating cash flows from our mature and recently opened restaurants by adding per unit sales volume while maintaining effective cost controls in our mature restaurants and by getting the most recently opened restaurants to operate at cost levels consistent with our mature restaurants. Commitment to Superior Quality Food and Wine We believe that a primary element of our appeal to our customers is our reputation for quality menus, creative presentations of carefully prepared food and extensive wine selections. We employ a chef at each of our restaurants who ensures the high quality of the food served. Our restaurants feature USDA prime grade beef, dry-aged and butchered on the premises, top-quality seafood and high quality ingredients purchased daily in local marketplaces. Each of our restaurants bake some of their own bread on the premises and features highly trained pastry chefs who prepare a range of traditional desserts and specialty confections. Our commitment to fine wines is evident in our extensive inventory. Our owned and managed restaurants have an aggregate of over 113,000 bottles of wine and average more than 500 wine listings per restaurant. Each restaurant has its own beverage and/or wine manager who is supported at the corporate management level by our wine department. Capitalize on Brand Awareness and Customer Loyalty We believe that our significant investment in marketing and advertising programs has contributed to what management believes is a national awareness of our Smith & Wollensky restaurants. Our marketing strategy is designed to build a loyal customer base, to enhance a strong identity and name recognition for our Smith & Wollensky restaurants, to generate positive word-of-mouth advertising and to create opportunities to cross-promote our restaurants. We have implemented this strategy through the use of advertising, promotional activity and cross-marketing of our restaurants. We run full-page advertisements in leading national publications, including The New York Times. We also employ an advertising strategy that focuses on national golf. In addition, we hold creative promotional events such as “Wine Week™”, a popular semi-annual event, restaurant opening galas and concierge dinners. We have enhanced our name recognition and brand awareness through our comprehensive merchandising strategy, which includes the sale of our sauces, salad dressings, knives and cookbooks. Our sauces, which include steak, barbecue and pepper, are now offered at over 4,000 wholesale and retail stores. On January 10, 2007, we entered into a Trademark License Agreement with Bryant Preserving Company (“Licensee”) to grant to Licensee the right to distribute and sell SWRG retail products, as defined (“Licensed Products”), through December 31, 2011, with an option for an additional five years. We will receive a six percent royalty on sales of the Licensed Products which are subject to guaranteed minimum net sales levels, as defined. In addition, the 8 Licensee agreed to reimburse us for store slotting fees, as well as certain inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable. Provide Exceptional Customer Service We are committed to providing our customers attentive and professional service through employees trained to exceed guests’ expectations. We believe that our brand recognition, high unit sales volume and high average checks enable us to attract talented managers, chefs and wait staff. Each restaurant is staffed with an experienced team of managers, kitchen personnel and wait staff, many of whom have a long tenure with us. Most of our general managers have at least 20 years of work experience in the restaurant industry. Restaurant personnel are instructed in various areas of restaurant management, including food quality and preparation, wine selection, customer service and beverage service. In addition, our ability to offer opportunities for promotion and training by experienced managers enhances our recruiting and training efforts. Provide Experienced Management Support Our senior executive team is comprised of Alan Stillman, our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Samuel Goldfinger, our Chief Financial Officer and Eugene Zuriff, our President. Alan Stillman has been with us for over 25 years, has opened numerous restaurants and is highly experienced in the creation and implementation of restaurant concepts and has been creating restaurant concepts, including T.G.I. Friday’s and other restaurant concepts, for over 30 years. Our restaurant general managers, most of whom are drawn from our restaurant personnel, have an average tenure with us of over 17 years, and most of them have worked in the restaurant industry for at least 20 years. In addition to our general managers, we currently employ approximately 190 restaurant management personnel and we believe they will be a substantial source of managerial talent as we expand. The Smith & Wollensky and Wollensky’s Grill Concepts The Smith & Wollensky concept, a dining experience that provides high quality selections in an upscale environment, was started in 1977 with the opening of the first Smith & Wollensky restaurant in New York City. The Wollensky’s Grill concept will be updated from the original Wollensky’s Grill, which opened in 1980, adjacent to the flagship Smith & Wollensky location New York City. The Smith & Wollensky restaurant in New York typifies our approach to the concept and has been described by Gourmet magazine as the “quintessential New York steakhouse.” The essential elements of the Smith & Wollensky and Wollensky’s Grill concepts are: Critically Acclaimed Food We strive to provide our customers with the best quality cuisine. Smith & Wollensky restaurants feature USDA prime grade beef served in generous portions. Unlike most other high-end restaurants, each Smith & Wollensky restaurant dry ages and butchers substantially all its beef on the premises. During this dry aging process, which takes three to four weeks to complete, the beef generally loses approximately 10% to 20% of its weight. Although the dry aging process is expensive and time consuming, we believe it produces a more flavorful and tender steak than alternative processes. Our menu also offers the highest quality seafood, including three- to thirteen-pound lobsters, fish, veal, lamb, pork and poultry. Freshly baked bread is served as well. Complementing our substantial main courses, our dessert menu features traditional desserts such as cheesecake and chocolate cake, as well as other specialized confections prepared on location by our highly trained pastry chefs. 9 Extensive Wine Selection Fine wine is an integral part of the Smith & Wollensky dining experience. Smith & Wollensky restaurants boast an extensive wine inventory of over 87,000 bottles, and our Smith & Wollensky in New York, which has over 17,000 bottles of wine, received Wine Spectator’s “Grand Award” each year from 1987 through 1994, Wine Spectator’s “Award of Excellence” from 1995 through 2005, Wine Enthusiast “Award of Ultimate Distinction” in 2006, and Wine Spectator “Best of Award of Excellence” in 2007. The Great American Wine list features on average over 600 selections with a combination of the country’s most renowned wineries, alongside a selection of undiscovered gems, which are lesser known names of outstanding quality. Our nationally acclaimed wine programs, such as “Wine Week™,” have been written about extensively by The New York Times and Wine Spectator. Distinctive Design and Decor We believe that a unique decor is essential to the creation of a fine dining experience for the customer. Each of our Smith & Wollensky restaurants has a decor that features hardwood floors, polished brass and dark wood accents and authentic folk-art from 1900-1940 Americana. Menus are presented under glass in stained wooden frames, while blackboards located around the dining rooms display signature menu items and daily specials. Each restaurant’s exterior, complete with traditional awnings, incorporates Smith & Wollensky’s signature green and white colors. In addition to the distinctive decor, our Smith & Wollensky restaurants feature a design layout that creates small dining areas and enhances efficiency. Our large square footage is broken into small areas that create a more private dining experience while maintaining a large seating capacity. In order to ensure the hottest food and most efficient service, each Smith & Wollensky restaurant has kitchens located on each floor except for one of the four levels at our Boston location. This flexible design allows us to close off sections of our restaurants, and thus reduce operating costs, during non-peak hours or days. We also offer customers a chance to view our chefs in action. Each Smith & Wollensky, other than the Philadelphia location, has either a “kitchen table” in a glass-enclosed area inside of the main kitchen or a table located just outside the kitchen with a view into the kitchen. Customers at these tables can eat, drink wine and watch our expert chefs prepare dinner. Additionally, most of our Smith & Wollensky locations offer some outdoor dining. Wollensky’s Grill Certain of our Smith & Wollensky’s incorporate a Wollensky’s Grill, a more informal alternative which offers menu selections similar to those offered at Smith & Wollensky in smaller, lower-priced portions, as well as hamburgers and sandwiches. Wollensky’s Grill provides flexibility for Smith & Wollensky, and the two dining areas have the ability to expand and contract relative to one another to accommodate customer demand. Wollensky’s Grill generally has a separate entrance and offers expanded late-night hours. A Wollensky’s Grill typically seats up to 125 customers. In some of our locations, Wollensky’s Grill and its menu are combined with the main dining space with no separate Wollensky’s Grill area. We plan to resume our growth in 2008 with the launch of our first free-standing Wollensky’s Grill. We plan to open a total of three to four Grills from 2008 to 2009. The menus and atmosphere of the Grills will be updated from the original Wollensky’s Grill, which opened in 1980, adjacent to the flagship Smith & Wollensky in New York City. Although our growth focus will be on opening Grills, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to open Smith & Wollensky units. We will continue to pursue our growth strategy until the consummation of the Merger or we are otherwise acquired, if and when that occurs. 10 Private Dining Facilities All of our owned Smith & Wollensky restaurants have dedicated private dining facilities. These facilities host numerous events that generate higher per-person average checks than our restaurants. In addition to these dedicated private dining facilities, all of our Smith & Wollensky restaurants have the capacity to host private dining events and parties, and most of our Smith & Wollensky restaurant locations have separate private dining managers that coordinate these special events. Locations of Smith & Wollensky Restaurants The following table sets forth information with respect to our Smith & Wollensky restaurant locations, all of which are owned other than the location in New York: Location Opening Year Approximate Seating Capacity New York(1) 1977 480 Miami Beach 1997 670 Chicago 1998 610 New Orleans(2) 1998 375 Las Vegas 1998 675 Washington, D.C. 1999 510 Philadelphia 2000 290 Columbus, Ohio 2002 400 Dallas(3) 2003 400 Houston 2004 400 Boston 2004 450 (1) This location is managed not owned. (2) This location was closed on August 29, 2005 due to the damages caused by Hurricane Katrina. This location is currently listed as available for sale. (3) This location was closed on December 31, 2006 because it was unable to achieve a level of income in line with our expectations. We are currently under contract to sell the property for the Smith & Wollensky in Dallas for $3.9 million, less commission and other expenses of approximately $250,000. We plan on closing on the sale of the Dallas property during the beginning of April 2007. Growth Strategy Our current objective is to increase sales from our existing restaurant operations as we build upon and increase what we believe is our reputation for providing an exceptional dining experience and high-quality food. At the same time, we plan to leverage our experience in developing and operating restaurants by introducing our Wollensky’s Grill restaurant concept into new markets in 2008 and beyond. We will continue to pursue our growth strategy until the consummation of the Merger or we are otherwise acquired, if and when that occurs. Grow and Develop Existing Restaurants Since December 1997, we have opened ten Smith & Wollensky restaurants. Our experience has shown that our restaurants take between 15 and 36 months to achieve expected company-wide targeted levels of performance. Some of our newer restaurants are currently in various stages of the ramp-up phase, and we believe incremental sales and restaurant level operating profitability can be realized from restaurants as they continue to develop. 11 Leverage Centralized Operations to Increase Profitability We have established a central corporate infrastructure to manage our restaurants through which we seek to take advantage of volume discounts and the allocation of fixed costs over a larger revenue base. All of our restaurants report daily through a point-of-sale system that allows us to monitor our sales, costs, inventory and other operating statistics. As we continue our expansion, we will seek to take advantage of even greater volume discounts. Expand Retail Offerings and Develop Branded Merchandise We have developed a comprehensive merchandising strategy to reinforce and capitalize on what we believe is a distinctive upscale brand image built on the quality and name recognition of our Smith & Wollensky restaurants. At our Smith & Wollensky restaurants and on our website, selected products are offered for sale under the Smith & Wollensky brand name, including custom steak knives, steak, barbeque and pepper sauce, salad dressings and cookbooks. As discussed above, on January 10, 2007, we entered into a Trademark License Agreement with Bryant Preserving Company (“Licensee”) to grant the Licensee the right to distribute and sell SWRG retail products, as defined (“Licensed Products”), through December 31, 2011, with an option for an additional five years. We will receive a six percent royalty on sales of the Licensed Products which are subject to guaranteed minimum net sales levels, as defined. In addition, the Licensee agreed to reimburse us for store slotting fees, as well as certain inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable. Pursue Disciplined Restaurant Growth in New Markets in 2008 and Beyond Although we currently do not have any leases signed other than leases relating to our existing locations, we plan to resume our growth in 2008 with the launch of our first free-standing Grill. We plan to open a total of three to four Grills from 2008 to 2009. The menus and atmosphere of the Grills will be updated from the original Wollensky’s Grill, which opened in 1980, adjacent to the flagship Smith & Wollensky location in New York City. Although the growth focus will be on opening Grills, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to open Smith & Wollensky units. We expect that each Grill restaurant will range between 7,000 and 9,000 square feet and will require a cash investment of approximately $2.5 million, net of landlord contributions and excluding pre-opening expenses. The estimate of the amount of our cash investment assumes that the property on which each new unit is located is being leased and is dependent on the size of the location and the amount of the landlord contribution. We will continue to pursue our growth strategy until the consummation of the Merger or we are otherwise acquired, if and when that occurs. In general, we prefer to open our Smith & Wollensky restaurants on sites near central business districts within larger metropolitan areas. For our Grill concept, we plan on evaluating sites not only within larger metropolitan areas, but also within midsize communities. Typically, prior to opening a new restaurant our management team carefully analyzes demographic information for each prospective site and considers other factors. After reviewing all of the relevant information, management will rate a city’s appropriateness as a location for a Wollensky’s Grill. We seek long-term leases providing for substantial development or rent contributions from landlords or real estate developers in exchange for a market based minimum annual rent and/or a percentage of annual gross sales above a stipulated minimum. We also evaluate opportunities to purchase or lease, and renovate existing restaurant sites that satisfy our selection criteria. Use of such sites can significantly reduce construction costs, shorten the time required to open a new restaurant and increase the return on investment. We have developed a restaurant opening program and team designed to optimize the performance of our new restaurants. The team includes a general manager, training manager, purchasing manager, 12 beverage manager and chef/kitchen manager. Restaurant managers typically complete a one to three month training program and we rotate certain of the senior managers of our established restaurants to a new restaurant during the course of the first three months it is in operation in order to ensure quality control. Unit Economics While we seek to develop high profile locations that create a distinctive dining experience, we are able to maintain unit operating margins due to high sales volumes coupled with effective cost controls. For the year ended January 1, 2007, the average sales for our nine owned Smith & Wollensky restaurants open for the full period were $10.3 million. Sales for the year ended January 1, 2007 for the managed Smith & Wollensky restaurant in New York were $26.7 million, for which we received $613,000 as a management fee. For the year ended January 1, 2007, average sales for all of our twelve consolidated restaurants open for the full period were $9.9 million per restaurant. Our average cash investment, net of landlord contributions, was approximately $6.8 million for the nine owned Smith & Wollensky restaurants open as of December 31, 2006, excluding pre-opening costs. We expect that each free-standing Grill restaurant, which will range between 7,000 and 9,000 square feet, will require a cash investment of approximately $2.5 million, net of landlord contributions and excluding pre-opening expenses. The estimate of the amount of our cash investment assumes that the property on which each new unit is located is being leased and is dependent on the size of the location and the amount of the landlord contribution. We will continue to pursue our growth strategy until the consummation of the Merger or we are otherwise acquired, if and when that occurs. Our Other Restaurant Concepts In addition to Smith & Wollensky, we have developed several other restaurant concepts. The following table sets forth information with respect to our other restaurant concepts, which are located in New York City, except where noted: Location Opening Year Approximate Seating Capacity The Post House(1) 1980 175 Quality Meats(2)(3) 2006 190 Cité(2)(4) 1989 375 Park Avenue Café(2) 1992 210 Mrs. Parks Tavern(5) 1994 290 Maloney & Porcelli(6) 1996 410 (1) This restaurant is managed not owned. (2) These restaurant assets are owned. (3) This location, which was previously The Manhattan Ocean Club, which we closed on January 1, 2006. We reopened this location with our new concept, “Quality Meats”, on April 10, 2006 with a seating capacity of approximately 190. (4) This location will be closing on April 2, 2007 because it was unable to achieve a level of income in-line with our expectations. (5) This location is located in Chicago, Illinois. We currently only receive a fee for the right of its owner to use the name “Mrs. Parks Tavern”. (6) This location is managed not owned, but the accounts and results of the entity that owns this location are consolidated pursuant to the adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities” (“FIN 46 (R)”). See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2. 13 Marketing, Advertising and Promotions For the past 20 years, the goal of our marketing strategy has been to build a loyal customer base, to enhance what we believe is the strong identity and name recognition of our restaurants, to generate positive word-of-mouth advertising and to create opportunities to cross-promote our restaurants. In order to attract new customers, we focus primarily on television advertising. We also employ limited radio and print advertising. We achieve national as well as local exposure through our print campaign. We believe that our commitment to advertising sets us apart from other upscale restaurants, and that our advertising expenditures are substantially greater than that of comparable high-end restaurants. We also take advantage of opportunities to cross-promote our restaurants by publishing advertisements and marketing materials featuring all of our restaurants as a group. Not only do we advertise directly to the general public, but we also offer specific customer services that have the potential for repeated referrals. Our restaurants host parties for the concierges of nearby hotels that are designed to enhance each restaurant’s name recognition and reputation for quality and service, thereby encouraging concierge recommendations. Additionally, our wait staff selectively provides complimentary food and drinks to customers, further developing customer loyalty. We are continually strengthening our name recognition and brand identity, particularly in new markets. In conjunction with restaurant openings, we host dinners, lunches and cocktail parties for various civic, philanthropic and charitable organizations. We also host Wine Week™, which we started in 1986. Wine Week™ has evolved into “National Wine Weeks™” which we hold twice a year, usually in March and September. Our restaurants sponsor wine tastings at lunch each day for the entire week and wine makers are invited to represent their wineries and to serve and discuss their wines with customers. We believe these events enhance our restaurants’ reputations for dedication to maintaining superior quality wine lists. Our other promotions include various tasting events as well as dinners hosted by nationally renowned chefs. We believe that our promotions build customer loyalty and increase future sales at our restaurants. Restaurant Operations and Management We believe that our high unit sales volume and portfolio of concepts allow us to attract, compensate and maintain high-quality, experienced restaurant management and personnel. We believe that we have a low rate of staff turnover for the restaurant industry. Professional, efficient and attentive service is integral to our overall success. Each of our restaurants is operated as an independent facility with each restaurant’s general manager exercising discretion and playing a key role in its success. The general managers in our restaurants have an average tenure with us of over 17 years. During training, restaurant personnel are instructed in various areas of restaurant management, including food quality and preparation, wine selection, customer service, beverage service, quality and cost controls and employee relations. Restaurant general managers are also provided with operations manuals relating to food and beverage preparation and operation of restaurants. These manuals are designed to ensure that we will provide uniform operations in each of our restaurants, high-quality products on a consistent basis and proper service. We have developed a restaurant opening program and team designed to optimize the performance of our new restaurants. The team includes a general manager, training manager, purchasing manager, beverage manager and chef/kitchen manager. All of these employees currently fill functions within our organization, but will be available to open new restaurants when we do resume our growth. Restaurant managers typically complete a one to three month training program and we rotate certain of the senior managers of our established restaurants to a new restaurant during the course of the first three months it is in operation in order to ensure quality control. Management believes it is imperative for new managers to spend much of their training period side by side with managers in existing operations in order to gain 14 critical insight into day-to-day operations and overall management philosophy. The director of operations and the local restaurant manager interview all staff on site. Chefs are brought to an established unit for training prior to an opening, and periodically are given the opportunity to work at other locations under the supervision of our critically acclaimed chefs. The director of management information systems typically stays at each new location until all accounting and management information systems are fully operational. We also coordinate our marketing, advertising and promotional program to support new restaurant openings while at the same time building national brand recognition. New wait staff at our restaurants participate in training during which time they work under the close supervision of our corporate opening team. Wait staff are trained and tested on proper service technique, wine and food knowledge, customer satisfaction and point-of-sale system usage. Purchasing Our ability to maintain consistent quality throughout our restaurants depends in part upon our ability to acquire food products and related items from reliable sources in accordance with our specifications. To ensure continuity of pricing and quality throughout all of our restaurants, we maintain on-premise stewards at most of our restaurants who are supported by a corporate purchasing department. We attempt to maintain a consistent food and beverage cost as a percentage of sales through a variety of means. We have gained a great knowledge of trends and fluctuations in the pricing of our key commodities based on over 25 years of experience. While we do not believe most market conditions warrant entering long-term pricing contracts on our primary items, we contract or lock into appropriate volume commitments. We lock pricing and volume availability on key items such as beef and shrimp, which represent a majority of our food cost, when we deem it beneficial. We have on occasion attempted modest hedges against volatility in the price of beef. Under extreme circumstances, such as the aftermath of the single case of mad cow disease reported in December 2003, we may experience significant cost volatility. Although we do not have a single source of supply for any particular food item and we believe that adequate alternative sources of supply are readily available, these alternative sources might not provide as favorable terms to us as our current suppliers when viewed on a long-term basis. In addition, we believe we are able to achieve cost savings through purchasing restaurant items such as glass, china, silver, utensils and similar items and equipment and some food items for all restaurants through Company wide agreements. Each of our restaurants also has an in-store beverage manager and/or wine manager who is supported by our corporate wine department. The beverage manager or wine manager at each restaurant purchases the majority of the wine in the local markets for each restaurant. Although the beverage manager may tailor some of the wine selections to customer preferences, market availability and menu/wine pairing, our Great-American Wine List forms the core of our selections at the Smith & Wollensky locations. We devote considerable attention to controlling food costs. We make use of information technology and each of our restaurants’ point-of-sale system, providing us with precise information on daily sales and inventory needs, thus reducing our need to carry large quantities of food inventory. This cost management system is complemented by our ability to obtain volume-based discounts. Additionally, as we open additional restaurants, we expect to be able to take further advantage of volume discounts and other cost savings. Management Arrangements Pursuant to our management arrangements, we provide new restaurant concept design, construction, staff training, menu development, administration, managerial and operating services to the restaurants we manage. 15 Smith & Wollensky. We manage the Smith & Wollensky restaurant in New York pursuant to a management agreement with St. James. The agreement continues until terminated by the parties in accordance with the terms of the agreement described below. Pursuant to the management agreement, we provide management services to the Smith & Wollensky restaurant in New York in exchange for a fee of 2.3% of all restaurant sales of the Smith & Wollensky restaurant in New York. Smith & Wollensky Operating Corp., an entity controlled by Mr. Stillman, is one of the two general partners of St. James. Mr. Stillman is also a limited partner of St. James. The other general partner of St. James may terminate the agreement if we fail to manage and market the restaurant in the same manner as has been done since the opening of the restaurant in 1977, and do not cure any failure to do so within 30 days after notice from the other general partner. In addition, the other general partner may terminate the agreement if we fail to prepare and deliver financial statements to St. James each month, and do not cure any failure to do so within three days after notice from the other general partner. Additionally, under the terms of the agreement, the other partner of St. James may terminate the agreement and replace us with any person, firm or corporation chosen by the other general partner, if we cease to be operated and directed by Mr. Stillman, whether by death, incapacity, retirement or otherwise and if within 60 days of receipt by St. James of financial statements indicating that restaurant sales, available funds or gross profit margins fall below defined levels. The levels for any quarter that are set by the agreement in that event are restaurant sales less than $5.3 million, available funds less than $1.4 million, or gross profit margins less than 70%. The levels for any trailing four quarters that are set by the agreement in that event are restaurant sales less than $25.0 million, available funds less than $7.0 million, or gross profit margins less than 72%. The other general partner of St. James can also terminate the agreement if there is a sale of the restaurant or of all of the partnership interests in St. James. These termination rights do not include the right to terminate the trade name license. The Post House. We manage The Post House in the Lowell Hotel in New York, and the food and beverage service for the Lowell Hotel, pursuant to a written restaurant management agreement. The agreement expired on January 23, 2007. We are currently in the process of amending the agreement. Pursuant to The Post House agreement, we provide operating services for The Post House in exchange for a fee of 6.0% of gross revenues of The Post House. We have verbally notified the owners of the Lowell Hotel of our intent to reduce the management fee from 6.0% to 5.0%. The Post House agreement may be terminated by either party upon one year’s notice. Additionally, The Post House agreement may be terminated by the owners of the Lowell Hotel under certain circumstances upon notice to us, including if we are adjudicated bankrupt or insolvent, upon 30 days notice to us if there is a sale of the restaurant, upon six months notice to us if the owners enter into a joint venture in the operation of the restaurant with a third party, or if the owners enter into certain financing arrangements. In addition, if we, or any of our successors, cease substantially to perform our duties and responsibilities (including maintaining the current general atmosphere and administering cost controls) under this agreement to the owners’ satisfaction in their sole and absolute discretion, or if we materially injure the owner’s reputation or business, the owners may terminate the agreement upon 30 days notice. Maloney & Porcelli. We manage Maloney & Porcelli in New York pursuant to a written restaurant management agreement (“Maloney Agreement”). We own the rights to the name Maloney & Porcelli and can use the name anywhere outside of a five-mile radius of the New York Maloney & Porcelli. We are not obligated to pay a royalty or fee outside of New York. We paid $1.5 million for the right to provide management services to Maloney & Porcelli, for which we receive a fee of 3.0% of all restaurant sales, plus a sum equal to the lesser of (i) 50% of net operating cash flow or (ii) cash flow minus sums to be retained by the owner of Maloney & Porcelli pursuant to the Maloney Agreement. The amounts to be retained by Maloney & Porcelli increased from $300,000 in 1999, to $360,000 in years 2000 through 2003 and to $480,000 in 2004 where it will remain until 2011. The Maloney Agreement grants us the right to manage Maloney & Porcelli so long as its owner occupies the premises for the operation of a restaurant. The Maloney Agreement may be terminated by the owner upon 30 days notice to us of certain defaults, 16 including our failure to perform our duties and responsibilities under the agreement, gross negligence, reckless disregard of the interests of the owner, violations of law which materially injure the business of the restaurant or the reputation of the owner, or our failure to pay the amounts to be retained by the owner as described above. We had an option to purchase all of the assets of Maloney & Porcelli at any time before July 1, 2003, at a price of $9.5 million. This amount increased by $1.0 million on July 1, 2003 to $10.5 million. We could have exercised this option, at the $10.5 million purchase price, at any time between July 1, 2003 and June 30, 2004, subject to the owner’s right to preempt the purchase option by paying us an amount equal to the scheduled purchase price. We did not exercise the option as of June 30, 2004. Additionally, we have a right of first refusal, should the owner receive an offer to sell Maloney & Porcelli. In accordance with FIN 46(R), our consolidated financial statement results for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2007 and January 2, 2006, respectively, include the accounts and results of the entity that owns Maloney & Porcelli. Park Avenue Café In Chicago. Prior to December 2002, we operated the Park Avenue Café in Chicago, Mrs. Park’s Tavern and the other services of the food and beverage department of the Doubletree Hotel in Chicago (“Doubletree”) pursuant to a written sub-management agreement (“Doubletree Agreement”). We received a management fee equal to the sum of 1.5% of sales and a percentage of earnings, as defined. The Doubletree Agreement was to expire on the earlier of December 31, 2004 or the termination of the related hotel management agreement between Chicago HSR Limited Partnership (“HSR”), the owner of the Doubletree and Doubletree Partners, the manager of the Doubletree. During December 2002, HSR closed the Park Avenue Café restaurant in Chicago and discontinued our requirement to provide other food and beverage department service for the Doubletree. As a result, we are no longer receiving the fees described above. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2003, we reached an agreement with HSR. The agreement provides for the continued use by HSR of the name Mrs. Parks Tavern and required us to provide management services to support that location. In exchange for the use of the Mrs. Park’s Tavern name and related management support we received an annual fee of $50,000. During 2004, we agreed to reduce the annual fee to $12,000 for the continued use by HSR of the name Mrs. Parks Tavern, but no longer provide management services to support the location. ONEc.p.s. Pursuant to a management agreement with Plaza Operating Partners, Ltd. (the “Plaza Operating Partners”), we managed the ONEc.p.s. restaurant located in the Plaza Hotel, New York. The agreement was to expire on September 12, 2010. At the inception of the agreement we paid $500,000 for the right to provide these management services, for which we received a base management fee of 4% of the gross revenues recognized from the services provided at ONEc.p.s. plus an additional fee of 40% of the restaurant’s operating cash flows, if any, as reduced by the repayment of project costs and working capital contributions. After all the project costs and working capital contributions would have been repaid, the additional fee would have increased to 50% of the restaurant’s operating cash flows. The base management fee was payable on a current basis only to the extent there was sufficient cash flow after all operating expenses have been accrued. To the extent that there was not sufficient cash flow, payment of the base management fee would have carried forward without interest from one year to the next, but the owner of the restaurant had no liability for such non-payment. The ONEc.p.s. agreement could have been terminated by Plaza Operating Partners at any time immediately upon notice to us, due to the fact that pre-opening costs exceeded $5.25 million. In addition, since the funds in the working capital account had been expended, and insufficient funds existed to pay operating expenses, the agreement could have been terminated by either party upon notice. Plaza Operating Partners could also have terminated the agreement if we failed to achieve applicable performance goals, if we were subject to certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, if the individual who directed the daily operations of the management company or has overall control and decision making authority of the management company was replaced other than in the ordinary course of business or in connection with the merger, consolidation or other transfer of any 17 direct or indirect interest in the tenant, or at any time upon 90 days notice to us and the payment of a fee to us. As of September 30, 2002, we had contributed $500,000 for the right to provide management services for the ONEc.p.s restaurant and had contributed, since the restaurant’s inception in September 2000, approximately $924,000 of additional funding for this restaurant. Based on the terms of our agreement, we anticipated being reimbursed from Plaza Operating Partners for the additional funding that we provided. We recorded a reserve of $300,000 in 2001 based on our determination that, at the time, part of the receivable might not be recoverable. During the quarter ended September 30, 2002, we determined that the carrying value of the management contract was impaired and the remaining unamortized investment of approximately $398,000 was written off. In the fourth quarter of 2002, we reached an agreement with Plaza Operating Partners and collected $300,000 as our share of the additional funding for operating losses. During the three months ended September 30, 2002, we recorded an additional write-off of $324,000 for the remaining portion of the receivable deemed no longer recoverable. On December 31, 2003, we amended the agreement with Plaza Operating Partners. Effective January 1, 2004, Plaza Operating Partners agreed to pay us $50,000 per quarter as a minimum base management fee. The minimum base management fee was credited against any management fee that we earned under the agreement. This amendment also gave either party the right to fund or refuse to fund any necessary working capital requirements. Plaza Operating Partners agreed to fund the cash requirements of ONEc.p.s. until October 16, 2004, the date that we were notified by Plaza Operating Partners that it had sold the Plaza Hotel, the property in which the restaurant was located, and the date Plaza Operating Partners directed us to advise the employees of ONEc.p.s. of the closing. We funded the cash requirements of ONEc.p.s. until January 1, 2005, the date on which we were required to close the restaurant at the direction of the new owner. On November 1, 2004, we informed certain of our employees that ONEc.p.s. would close effective January 1, 2005. As a result, we no longer accrue quarterly management fees under our agreement with Plaza Operating Partners with respect to any periods following January 1, 2005. For information about litigation regarding ONEc.p.s. see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. Management Information Systems We initiate and record our financial information for each restaurant through centralized accounting and management information systems. We collect sales and related information daily from each restaurant and we provide restaurant managers with operating statements for their respective locations. We connect point-of-sale systems in individual restaurants via secured data network to a central data repository in the corporate office and have upgraded such point-of-sale systems to facilitate the on-line downloading and constant monitoring of financial information. We manage a central database of frequent customers and maintain our website, which includes the ability to sell all Smith & Wollensky branded products and cookbooks. Competition The restaurant industry is intensely competitive in all our markets. We compete on the basis of the taste, quality and price of food offered, customer service, ambience, location and overall dining experience. The restaurant business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns, national and regional economic conditions, demographic trends, adverse weather conditions, consumer confidence in the economy, traffic patterns, the cost and availability of raw material and labor, purchasing power, governmental regulations and local competitive factors. Although we believe we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors, some of our direct and indirect competitors are well-established national, regional or local chains and some have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do. We also compete with many other restaurant and retail establishments for site locations and restaurant level employees. 18 Service Marks, Trademarks and License Agreements We have registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office the names “Maloney and Porcelli” “Wine Week” and “National Wine Week.” In addition, our subsidiary, La Cité Associates, L.L.C., has registered the names “Cité” and “Cité Grill,” and another of our subsidiaries, Atlantic & Pacific Grill Associates, LLC, has registered the names “Park Avenue Café,” “Park Avenue Café Swordfish Chop,” “Swordfish Chop,” and “Mrs. Park’s Tavern.” The Manhattan Ocean Club Associates, LLC, which is one of our subsidiaries, has registered the name “The Manhattan Ocean Club”, and “Quality Meats.” We have also registered trademarks in several foreign countries. Parade 59 Restaurant LLC, which is a subsidiary of ours, has registered the name “ONEc.p.s.” In addition, pursuant to our management agreement regarding Maloney & Porcelli discussed above, we are the exclusive owner of the name “Maloney & Porcelli” and may use that name without liability to any party anywhere outside a five-mile radius from the Maloney & Porcelli in New York. We are not aware of any infringing uses of our trademarks or service marks that we believe could materially affect our business. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are valuable to the operation of our restaurants and are important to our marketing strategy. In August 1996, we acquired an exclusive license for the use of the names “Smith & Wollensky,” “Wollensky’s Grill,” and all associated service marks, trademarks, trade names and trade dress from St. James Associates for $2.5 million (the “Original License Agreement”). The Smith & Wollensky license grants us the exclusive right to use the licensed names throughout the United States and the world, subject to the limitations discussed below. We are aware of a restaurant located in South Africa, which is named “Smith & Wollensky.” We are not associated with this restaurant, and have not authorized the use of the name “Smith & Wollensky” to this restaurant under our license. Under the Original License Agreement, St. James Associates had reserved the exclusive right to use the licensed names, subject to receiving our consent in specific circumstances, within a 100-mile radius of the Smith & Wollensky in New York, subject to our exclusive right to use the name within a 10-mile radius of City Hall in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Consequently, we may not open new Smith & Wollensky restaurants or pursue retailing or merchandising opportunities within such reserved territory. We have the right to sublicense all or any portion of our rights under the license agreement without the consent of St. James Associates to an affiliate or any other entity so long as we exercise and maintain managerial control over all restaurants owned by such entity in the manner that we currently exercise managerial control over the New York Smith & Wollensky restaurant. Each sublicense agreement that we execute must contain specific provisions set forth in the licensing agreement and declare that the sublicense will be deemed automatically assigned to St. James Associates upon any lawful termination of the license agreement. In all other circumstances, we must obtain the written consent of St. James Associates to sublicense our rights under the license agreement. Under the Original License Agreement, we are required to pay a one-time fee to St. James Associates upon the opening of each new restaurant utilizing the licensed names. This fee is equal to the fee paid in the previous year (which in 2006 would have been $244,000 if we had opened a restaurant) increased by the lesser of the annual increase in the Consumer Price Index or 5% of the fee for the preceding year. In addition, we must pay a royalty of 2.0% of aggregate annual gross restaurant sales and non-restaurant sales (subject to an annual aggregate minimum of $800,000 to be paid in 2004 and each year thereafter). Additionally, the Smith & Wollensky license provides for a royalty fee of 1.0% of annual gross restaurant sales for any new steakhouses opened in the future by us not utilizing the licensed names. If we terminate or default on the Smith & Wollensky license, we are subject to a fee of $2.0 million upon termination or $2.5 million to be paid over four years. An entity controlled by Alan Stillman is a general partner and a limited partner of St. James Associates. 19 On January 19, 2006 we (the “Licensee”), signed an Amended and Restated Sale and License Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2006 (the “License Agreement”), with St. James Associates, L.P. (the “Licensor”) which provides for, among other things, a reduced licensing fee only for the opening of Wollensky’s Grills that are less than 9,000 square feet. Pursuant to the License Agreement, the one-time opening fee paid to the Licensee for each new additional Grill (“Grill Opening Fee”) will be at a rate equal to 50% of the fee due under the Original License Agreement. In addition, the annual royalty fee (“Grill Royalty Fee”) will be reduced from 2% to 1% for annual sales from Grills. Both the Grill Opening Fee and Grill Royalty Fee are subject to maximum average per-person checks that, if exceeded, could increase both the Grill Opening Fee and Grill Royalty Fee, but not to exceed the opening fee and royalty fee contained in the original Licensing Agreement. The terms of the amendment do not apply to the existing Wollensky’s Grills. For further information see “—Management Arrangements.” Government Regulation Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, including regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control, the preparation and sale of food, public health and safety, sanitation, building, zoning and fire codes. A significant percentage of the revenues of each of the restaurants we own or manage are attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. Each restaurant has appropriate licenses from regulatory authorities allowing it to serve liquor and/or beer and wine, and each restaurant has food service licenses from local health authorities. Our licenses to serve alcoholic beverages must be renewed annually and each restaurant is operated in accordance with standardized procedures designed to assure compliance with all applicable codes and regulations. We are subject, in some states, to “dram shop” statutes which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment which wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person and we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance. The development and construction of additional restaurants will be subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. We are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and various state laws governing such matters as minimum wages, overtime, tip credits and reporting and other working conditions. A significant number of our hourly personnel are paid at rates related to the federal minimum wage. In addition, the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Seasonality Our business is seasonal in nature depending on the region of the United States in which a particular restaurant is located, with revenues generally being less in the third quarter than in other quarters due to reduced summer volume and highest in the fourth quarter due to year-end and holiday events. As we expand in other locations as expected, the seasonality pattern may change. Employees As of January 1, 2007 we had 1,676 employees. Of these, 44 were employed in our office facilities. In our restaurants, we had 1,632 employees, including 285 management personnel and administrators at the restaurants. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Management believes our relationships with our employees are excellent. 20 Financial and Geographic Information For information relating to our revenues, profits and losses and assets, please see “Item 6. Selected Financial Data.” All of our revenues are attributable to our operations in the United States, and all of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are the most significant risk factors applicable to us: RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Due to the ongoing interest in the acquisition of SWRG and the related diversion of our management’s attention to the operation of our business, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. As discussed in “Item 1. Business—Possible Acquisition of SWRG and Related Transactions,” we have entered into the Merger Agreement, which, subject to stockholder approval and various other conditions, would result in our being acquired by Patina and each of our stockholders receiving $9.25 in cash without interest less any required withholding tax for each share of Common Stock they own. Our stockholders would have no further interest in the Company if the Merger were to occur. As also noted above, we have received an unsolicited bid from Landry’s to acquire us for $9.75 per share. As a result of the ongoing interest in SWRG, our management and the Special Committee have spent and will continue to spend a significant amount of time evaluating proposals of, and providing information to, parties that are interested in pursuing an acquisition of SWRG. In addition, management’s time and attention will be diverted in connection with the closing of any sale of the Company. Our business and operating results may suffer due to the diversion of management’s attention. If the proposed Merger is not completed and we are not otherwise acquired, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. The consummation of the Merger with Patina is, and any potential merger that we undertake with some other party will likely be, conditioned upon, among other things, the adoption of a merger agreement by our stockholders, regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Therefore, any acquisition of SWRG may not be completed or may not be completed in a timely manner. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and there are no other bidders for SWRG, the market price of the Common Stock will likely decline, and, as noted above, our business may have been adversely affected due to the diversion of management’s attention from the operations of our business. Our stock price may decline as a result of the fact that we have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses related to the Merger prior to its closing that will not be recovered if the Merger is not completed. In addition, our employees may be concerned due to the possibility that any party that acquires SWRG may make personnel changes or eliminate employees. This could result in our employees seeking opportunities with other employers. If we lose employees due to the fact that we may be acquired, we may have difficulty rehiring or replacing those workers if we are not acquired, which would aversely affect our operations. Our unfamiliarity with new markets may present risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our future growth and profitability. Our strategy depends on our ability to successfully expand our Wollensky’s Grill brand into new markets in which we have no operating experience. We began to open Smith & Wollensky restaurants outside of New York City in 1997. Historically, new Smith & Wollensky restaurants opened in expanded markets generally take about 15 to 36 months to achieve expected company-wide targeted levels of performance, and we expect our new free-standing Grills to have a similar ramp-up period. This is due to higher operating costs caused by temporary inefficiencies typically associated with expanding into new regions and opening new restaurants, such as lack of market awareness and acceptance and limited 21 availability of experienced staff. As a result, our continued expansion may result in an increase in our operating costs. New markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our restaurants in these new markets to be less successful than our restaurants in our existing markets. We cannot assure you that restaurants in new markets will be successful. Our success in profitably pursuing our strategy of expansion will depend on our ability to open new restaurants efficiently. Our planned expansion involves a number of risks, which could delay or prevent the opening of new restaurants. Our ability to open new restaurants efficiently is subject to a number of factors, including: · Selection and availability of suitable restaurant sites; · Negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for such sites; · Negotiation of reasonable construction contracts and adequate supervision of construction: · Our ability to secure required governmental permits and approvals for both construction and operation; · Availability of adequate capital; · General economic conditions. · Adverse weather conditions. Our inability to effectively address those factors within our control, in addition to the factors listed above that are beyond our control, could adversely affect our ability to open our planned new restaurants on a timely basis, or at all. Delays in opening or failures to open planned new restaurants could cause our business, results of operations and financial condition to suffer. Terrorism and war may have material adverse effect on our business. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war in the United States or abroad, such as the war in Iraq, may affect the markets in which we operate and our business, results of operations and financial conditions. The potential near-term and long-term effects these events may have on our business operations, our customers, the markets in which we operate and the economy is uncertain. Because the consequences of any terrorist attacks, or any armed conflicts are unpredictable, we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our markets or our business. Our profitability is dependent in large measure on food, beverage and supply costs which are not within our control. Our profitability is dependent in large measure on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food, beverage and supply costs. Various factors beyond our control, including climatic changes and government regulations, may affect food and beverage costs. In 2004, we experienced a significant increase in the cost of beef after a single case of “mad cow disease” was reported in the United States. In addition, our dependence on frequent, timely deliveries of fresh beef, poultry, seafood and produce subjects us to the risks of possible shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions, which could adversely affect the availability and cost of any such items. We cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate or react to increasing food and supply costs in the future. The failure to react to these increases could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 The restaurant industry is affected by changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending patterns that could result in a reduction in our revenues. Consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of beef, the primary item on our Smith & Wollensky restaurants’ menus, or by specific events such as the outbreak of or scare caused by “mad cow disease”, the popularity of the Atkins diet and the South Beach diet and changes in consumer preferences to a “carb consciousness”. If we were to have to modify the emphasis on beef in our restaurants’ menus, we may lose customers who would be less satisfied with a modified menu, and we may not be able to attract a new customer base to generate the necessary revenues to maintain our income from restaurant operations. A change in our menus may also result in us having different competitors. We may not be able to successfully compete against established competitors in the general restaurant market. Our success also depends on various factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income, consumer confidence and the United States participation in military activities. Adverse changes in these factors could reduce our customer base and spending patterns, either of which could reduce our revenues and results of operations. The failure to enforce and maintain our trademarks and trade names could adversely affect our ability to establish and maintain brand awareness. We license from St. James Associates the exclusive and perpetual right to use and sublicense the trademarks “Smith & Wollensky” and “Wollensky’s Grill” and any variations of such names throughout the United States and the world, except that St. James Associates has reserved the exclusive right to use the licensed names, subject to receiving our consent in specified circumstances, within a 100-mile radius of the Smith & Wollensky in New York, subject to our exclusive right to use the name within a 10-mile radius of City Hall in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and to open one Wollensky’s Grill within the 100-mile radius of the Smith & Wollensky in New York, but outside of New York City. Consequently, we may not open new Smith & Wollensky restaurants or pursue retailing or merchandising opportunities within such reserved territory. St. James Associates has the right to terminate the license agreement due to specified defaults, including non-payment of amounts due under the agreement and certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency. St. James also has the right to terminate the agreement if we fail to perform any term, covenant or condition under the agreement, and we do not remedy such failure within 30 days after receiving notice of such failure. This does not include situations where a restaurant sells steak incidentally, continues to be operated under an original name, or is located outside of the reserved territory. If we terminate or default on the Smith & Wollensky license, we are subject to a fee of $2.0 million upon termination or $2.5 million to be paid over four years. Our current operations and marketing strategy depend significantly on the strength of trademarks and service marks, especially Smith & Wollensky. The success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products. Although we are not aware of any infringing uses of any of the trademarks or service marks that we believe could materially affect us; we cannot assure you that we will be free from such infringements in the future. For example, we do not own or manage the restaurant located in South Africa, which is named “Smith & Wollensky.” Although the existence of this restaurant has not had any material impact on our operations to date, we cannot assure you that they will not have a negative impact on our future plans for growth or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The names “Smith & Wollensky” and “Wollensky’s Grill” represent our core concepts. The termination of our right to use these names or our failure to maintain any of our other existing trademarks could materially and adversely affect our growth and marketing strategies. 23 Certain of our material agreements may be terminated if Alan Stillman is no longer our chief executive officer, if Mr. Stillman ceases to direct our business, or if Mr. Stillman’s ownership interests fall below certain levels. Our success has been, and will continue to be, dependent on Alan Stillman, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Stillman’s services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and development. Pursuant to our management agreement for the Smith & Wollensky restaurant in New York with St. James Associates, the agreement can be terminated if we cease to be operated and directed by Alan Stillman, whether by death, incapacity, retirement or otherwise and a notice of termination is sent to us within 60 days of receipt by St. James Associates of financial statements indicating that restaurant sales, available funds or gross profit margin fall below defined levels. We entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Stillman that has a term ending in May 2011. However, this employment agreement can be terminated by Mr. Stillman at any time with 15 business days notice, or if we materially breach the agreement, remove Mr. Stillman as Chief Executive Officer, materially diminish Mr. Stillman’s responsibilities, or relocate Mr. Stillman outside of New York City. Mr. Stillman’s duties to St. James Associates and MW Realty Associates on the one hand, and us on the other hand, may result in a conflict of interest. An entity controlled by Mr. Stillman, is one of the two general partners of St. James Associates, which owns the Smith & Wollensky restaurant in New York and the rights to the trademarks “Smith & Wollensky” and “Wollensky’s Grill” and any variations of such names, and is one of the two general partners of MW Realty Associates, which owns the property on which the Smith & Wollensky restaurant in New York is located. As a result, in the event that a dispute arose between us on the one hand, and St. James Associates and/or MW Realty Associates on the other hand, it is possible that Mr. Stillman would have a conflict of interest as a result of his duties to all parties. Such a conflict of interest could make the resolution of any such dispute more difficult. Because we maintain a small number of restaurants, the negative performance of a single restaurant could have a substantial impact on our operating results. We currently operate 14 restaurants, 11 of which we own. Due to this relatively small number of restaurants, poor financial performance at any owned restaurant could have a significant negative impact on our profitability as a whole. In addition we own S&W of New Orleans, which was closed on August 29, 2005 due to Hurricane Katrina. We also own Dallas S&W, which was closed on December 31, 2006 because it was unable to achieve a level of income from operations that was in line with our expectations. At January 1, 2007, both S&W of New Orleans and S&W of Dallas were listed as available for sale. We are currently under contract to sell the property for the Smith & Wollensky in Dallas for $3.9 million, less commission and other expenses of approximately $250,000. We plan on closing on the sale of the Dallas property during the beginning of April 2007. In addition, we plan to close Cité on April 2, 2007 because it was unable to achieve a level of income from operations that was in line with our expectations. Future growth in sales and profits will depend to a substantial extent on our ability to increase sales and profits at our restaurants open less than fifteen months, to operate our existing restaurants at higher sales levels that generate higher operating profits and to increase the number of our restaurants. The results achieved to date by our relatively small restaurant base may not be indicative of the results of a larger number of restaurants in a more geographically dispersed area with varied demographic characteristics. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase sales and profits at our restaurants open less than 15 months, operate our existing restaurants at higher sales levels that generate equal or higher operating profits or increase the number of our restaurants sufficiently to offset the impact of poor performance at any one restaurant. 24 Our geographic concentration in New York City could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently operate five restaurants in New York City, three of which we own. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in New York City, including its labor market, which could have a negative impact on our profitability as a whole. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants in New York City could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as could other regional occurrences such as acts of terrorism, local strikes, natural disasters or changes in laws or regulations. We plan to incur substantial costs over the long-term in connection with our future expansion plans. We may need to seek additional financing sooner than we anticipate, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all: We may need to seek additional financing sooner than we anticipate as a result of any of the following factors: · Changes in our operating plans; · Acceleration of our expansion plans; · Lower than anticipated sales; · Increased costs of expansion, including construction costs; · Increased food and/or operating costs; and · Potential acquisitions. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we fail to get additional financing as needed, our business, results of operations, financial conditions and expansion plans would likely suffer. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to seasonality and other factors beyond our control. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may vary greatly depending upon the region of the United States in which a particular restaurant is located, with revenues generally being less in the third quarter than in other quarters due to reduced summer volume and highest in the fourth quarter due to year-end and holiday events. In addition to seasonality, our quarterly and annual operating results and comparable unit sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including: · The amount of sales contributed by new and existing restaurants; · The timing of new openings; · Increases in the cost of key food or beverage products; · Labor costs for our personnel; · Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis; · Adverse weather; · Consumer confidence and changes in consumer preferences; · Health concerns, including adverse publicity concerning food-related illness; · The level of competition from existing or new competitors in the high-end segment of the restaurant industry; and 25 · Economic conditions generally and in each market in which we are located. · Acceptance of a new or modified concept in each of the new markets in which we could be located. These fluctuations make it difficult for us to predict and address in a timely manner factors that may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our expansion may strain our infrastructure, which could slow restaurant development. Our growth strategy may place a strain on our management systems, financial controls, and information systems. To manage our growth effectively, we must maintain the high level of quality and service at our existing and future restaurants. We must also continue to enhance our operational, information, financial and management systems and locate, hire, train and retain qualified personnel, particularly restaurant managers. We cannot predict whether we will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on management and those systems and controls. If we are not able to effectively manage any one or more of these or other aspects of our expansion, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We could face labor shortages, increased labor costs and other adverse effects of varying labor conditions. The development and success of our restaurants depend, in large part, on the efforts, abilities, experience and reputations of the general managers and chefs at such restaurants. In addition, our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and wait staff, especially in light of our expansion schedule. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply and the inability to recruit and retain such individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high employee turnover in existing restaurants. A significant delay in finding qualified employees or high turnover of existing employees could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract sufficient qualified employees, which could result in higher, labor costs. In addition, increases in the minimum hourly wage, employment tax rates and levies, related benefits costs, including health insurance, and similar matters over which we have no control may increase our operating costs. The employees of two of our managed restaurants in New York, Smith & Wollensky and The Post House are members of a union. The terms of our collective bargaining agreements, as well as future collective bargaining agreements could result in increased labor costs. In addition, our failure to negotiate an agreement in a timely manner could result in an interruption of operations at these managed locations, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unanticipated costs or delays in the development or construction of future restaurants could prevent our timely and cost-effective opening of new restaurants. We depend on contractors and real estate developers to construct our restaurants. Many factors may adversely affect the cost and time associated with the development and construction of our restaurants, including: · Labor disputes; · Shortages of materials or skilled labor; · Adverse weather conditions; · Unforeseen engineering problems; · Environmental problems; 26 · Construction or zoning problems; · Local government regulations; · Modifications in design; and · Other unanticipated increases in costs. Any of these factors could give rise to delays or cost overruns, which may prevent us from developing additional restaurants within our anticipated budgets or time periods or at all. Any such failure could cause our business, results of operations and financial condition to suffer. We may not be able to obtain and maintain necessary federal, state and local permits which could delay or prevent the opening of future restaurants. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, including regulations relating to: · Alcoholic beverage control; · The purchase, preparation and sale of food; · Public health and safety; · Sanitation, building, zoning and fire codes; and · Employment and related tax matters. All these regulations impact not only our current operations but also our ability to open future restaurants. We will be required to comply with applicable state and local regulations in new locations into which we expand. Any difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining licenses, permits or approvals in such new locations could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant in a particular area or reduce operations at an existing location, either of which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The restaurant industry is affected by litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which can cause guests to avoid our restaurants and result in liabilities. Health concerns, including adverse publicity concerning food-related illness, although not specifically related to our restaurants, could cause guests to avoid our restaurants, which would have a negative impact on our sales. We may also be the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food-related illness, injuries suffered on the premises or other food quality, health or operational concerns. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may also be subject to litigation which, regardless of the outcome, could result in adverse publicity. Adverse publicity resulting from such allegations may materially adversely affect us and our restaurants, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. Such litigation, adverse publicity or damages could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, results of operations and financial condition and results of operations. 27 We are currently, and may in the future be, involved in litigation relating to our management of a restaurant, which, if determined adversely to us, could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. As disclosed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” we are currently involved in litigation relating to our management of ONEc.p.s., which, if determined adversely to us, could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We may be subject to similar litigation in the future. Even if we ultimately prevail, litigation can be expensive and diverts management attention from the operation of our business. The covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may limit our ability to expand our business and our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events that are beyond our control. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain financial and other covenants requiring us, among other things, to maintain financial ratios and meet financial tests, and restrict our ability to incur indebtedness and declare or pay dividends. A violation of any of these provisions could cause acceleration in the due date of our outstanding debt and limit our ability to expand our business. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, certain of our lenders have security interests in certain of our personal property and fixtures and mortgages on several of our properties. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The large number of shares of our common stock eligible for public sale and the fact that a relatively small number of investors hold our publicly traded common stock could cause our stock price to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. A large number of shares of our unregistered stock is eligible for public sale and our registered common stock is concentrated in the hands of a small number of institutional investors and is thinly traded. An attempt to sell by a large holder could adversely affect the price of our stock. These sales or the perception that these sales might occur could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent a change of control transaction. Delaware corporate law contains, and our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws contain, provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing our ability to experience a change in control on terms, which you may deem advantageous. These provisions include: · Providing for a board of directors with staggered terms; and · Establishing advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Ownership of approximately 17.6% of our outstanding common stock by five stockholders will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. A substantial majority of our capital stock is held by a limited number of stockholders. Five stockholders, including our officers and directors and parties affiliated with or related to such persons or to us, own approximately 17.6% of the shares of common stock outstanding, of which 17.1% is owned by our Chief Executive Officer. Accordingly, such stockholders will likely have a strong influence on major decisions of corporate policy, and the outcome of any major transaction or other matters submitted to our stockholders or board of directors, including potential mergers or acquisitions, and amendments to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Stockholders other than these principal stockholders are therefore likely to have little influence on decisions regarding such matters. 28 The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price at which our common stock will trade may fluctuate significantly. During the twelve month period ended March 29, 2007, the closing price of our Common Stock on the Nasdaq National Market has ranged from $4.25 to $10.23. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: · Proposed acquisitions of SWRG; · Fluctuations in quarterly or annual results of operations; · Changes in published earnings estimates by analysts and whether our actual earnings meet or exceed such estimates; · Additions or departures of key personnel; and · Changes in overall stock market conditions, including the stock prices of other restaurant companies. In the past, companies that have experienced extreme fluctuations in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were to be subject to such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 