Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risk information contained in the following, the risk factors also include the reports we incorporated in Form 10k-SB by reference. Each reader and investor should carefully read and consider these risk factors which may affect the Company’s future results and financial conditions. 1. Risks Relating To The Company and it Business The Registrant’s main business is operating in China. China is a developing country with sophisticated and long history of complicated cultural traditions, which are vastly different from that of the US. The decision making process of China is different than that of the US, which becomes a major risk to the Company. As China is still developing its legal system, laws in China are not the same as that of the US. The business activities conducted in China are not covered by the US Constitution, nor by the American judicial system. Any legal system reversal, social unrest in China could adversely affect the Company business, its financial conditions and results of operations. There are critical risks each investor needs to consider them seriously before making an investment in the Company. 2. Ownership of Land. Contrary to the out-right land ownership in the US, land in China is only leased to owners on a long term basis, ranging from 40 to 70 years. This is a system similar to the land lease in New Territory of Hong Kong, during the British colonization in Hong Kong, which ended in 1997. Currently, no law in China prohibits the continuing lease of the same land after the expiration of lease period. 3. Cultural, Political and Language Differences There are material cultural, political and language differences between China and the United States, which make business negotiations and doing business more difficult in China than that in the United States. Further, continuing trade surpluses, led by the Chinese export to the US over the US export to China, has become a sensitive political issue in the United States, and various members of United States legislature have threatened trade sanctions against China, if China continues its trade surplus with the US. In addition, continuous strong 4 economic growth in China with its possible military buildup may result in American economic sanctions against China that could adversely affect the financial position and results of operations of the Registrant. 4. Uncertainty of exchange rate of Chinese Currency (RMB) to the US Dollars Currently, the Chinese RMB currency is set at a fixed rate against the US dollars and other foreign currencies. RMB is not freely exchanged in the global markets. The Chinese currency is considered by many to be under valued against other foreign currencies, and the US dollars. The Chinese RMB thus may appreciate against the US dollars. RMB value has increased since the summer of 2005, and the trend of further appreciation of RMB against US dollars continues in 2008. When and if the Chinese Government allows a floating exchange rate, it is expected the RMB will appreciate more in its value. The United States has requested that China allow its currency exchange rate to float freely. Implications of currency fluctuation may or may not be favorable to the Company and its investments in China. 5. Reliance upon Key Management The future success of L & L’s investments in China is dependent on the Company’s management team, including Paul W. Lee, Company’s Chairman and its other team of Chinese America professionals, advisors, who speak the languages, understands culture differences, legal, and US business practices. If one or more of the Company’s key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, the Company may not be able to easily replace them, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel. The Company’s business could be severely disrupted and its financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, since the industries the Company invests in are characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, the Company may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future. The Company cannot assure its investors that it will be able to attract or retain the key personnel needed to achieve our business objectives. Furthermore, the Company does not maintain key-man life insurance for any of its key personnel. Currently, most executives and managers are covered by a one-year term accident insurance policy in China, paid by the Company. 6. Some Director and Officers may reside outside United States Because the diversity of the Company's directors and officers who may reside both inside and outside of the United States, it may be difficult for investors to enforce his or her rights against them or enforce United States court judgments against them if they live outside the US. After the consummation of the KMC, LEK and LSP acquisitions, most of the Company's assets are located in China, outside of the United States. The Company will continue to acquire other entities in China in the future. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to affect service of process upon the Company's directors or officers, or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of the Company's directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the Federal securities laws. 7. Insurance Coverage in China Despite the assets are generally insured, the Company has a very limited business insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. In particular, insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, the executives and managers of the Company only have limited one-year accident insurance coverage. No other business liability or disruption insurance coverage is available for the Company's operations in China, nor for KMC, LEK and LSP subsidiaries in China. Any business disruption, industrial accidents in coal related operations, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources. 8. Chinese Legal System/Enforcement of Agreements, Including Acquisition Agreements in China. Despite China has its own enforcement agency, securities regulators, the Chinese Legal System is in a developmental stage. In addition, the existing Chinese laws generally are not enforceable to the same extent as that in the US. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, resulting in significant uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation in China. Consequently, there is a risk 5 that should a dispute arise between the Company and any party with whom the Company has entered into a material agreement in China, the Company may be unable to enforce such agreements under the Chinese legal system. Chinese law will govern almost all of the Company's acquisition agreements, many of which may also require the approval of Chinese government agencies. Thus, the Company cannot assure investors that the target business will be able to enforce any of the Company’s material agreements or that remedies will be available outside China. Moreover, the Registrant is aware that the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange ("SAFE") SAFE on October 21, 2005 issued a new circular ("Circular 75"), effective November 1, 2005, which supersedes Circular 11 and Circular 29 ceased to be implemented. SAFE also issued a news release about the issuance of its Circular 75 to make it clear that China’s national policies encourage the efforts by Chinese private companies and high technology companies to obtain offshore financing. Circular 75 confirm that the uses of offshore special purpose vehicles (“SPV”) as holding companies for PRC investments are permitted as long as proper foreign exchange registrations are made with SAFE. In addition, as China starts to develop its legal system, additional legal, administrative, and regulatory rules and regulations become available on a on-going basis, which the registrant may subject to comply in China. Neither the Registrant nor the Chinese shareholders of LEK, KMC from whom the Registrant acquired shares of LEK, KMC have made registration with SAFE in connection with the LEK, KMC transactions. While it is unclear to what extent the regulations is applied to the Registrant, the Registrant believes that Circular 75 or other related Circular, or regulations may likely be further clarified by SAFE, in writing or through oral comments by officials from SAFE, or through implementation by SAFE in connection with actual transactions. 9. Risks Associated with the Company’s Business Strategy Contemplating Growth may need more capital As the Company continues to grow quickly, if intends to improve its operations by acquiring other businesses, it requires capital infusions. Under the strategies, the ability to grow through such acquisitions and joint ventures will depend on its availability of additional fund, suitable acquisition candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to compete effectively to attract and reach agreement with acquisition candidates or joint venture partners on commercially reasonable terms, the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions or joint ventures. In addition, the benefits of an acquisition or joint venture transaction may take considerable time to develop and we cannot assure investors that any particular acquisition or joint venture will produce the intended benefits. Moreover, the identification and completion of these transactions may require us expend significant management and other resources. 10. The Company Acquisition Strategy May Result In Dilution To Its Stockholders The Company business strategy calls for strategic acquisition of other businesses. In connection with the acquisition of LEK and KMC, the Company issued 1,708,283 common shares and 485,592 common shares respectively, as consideration for these two purchases. It is anticipated that future acquisitions will require cash and issuances of our capital stock, including our common stock, warrants or convertible bonds in the future. To the extent we are required to pay cash for any acquisition, we anticipate that we would be required to obtain additional equity and/or debt financing from either the public sector, or private financing. Equity financing would result in dilution for our then current stockholders. Stock issuances and financing, if obtained, may not be on terms favorable to us and could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders at the time(s) of these stock issuances and financings. Availability of significant amounts of our common stock for sale could adversely affect its market price. As of April 30, 2008, there were approximately 21,059,714 shares of our common stock outstanding with certain amount of warrants issued. Please refer to the Statement of Shareholders Equity for details. 11. Recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), which became law in July 2002, requires changes in our corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. Sarbanes-Oxley also requires the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), to promulgate new rules on a variety of corporate governance and disclosure subjects. We expect these developments to increase our legal and financial compliance costs. We also expect these developments in additional to the existing securities rules and regulation to make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to attract and retain additional members of the board of Directors (both independent and regular ones), and additional executive officers especially a recruitment of a 6 full time CFO. In the worst case, at the expenses of increasing securities laws and regulations, the Company may not be able to continue to maintain its status as a US public company, and may need to seek listing in a market outside the United States, such as Hong Kong Stock Exchange among others foreign exchanges . FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS: The company makes written and oral statements from time to time regarding the business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management's plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases "will likely result," "are expected to," "will continue," "is anticipated," "estimates," "projects," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "target," "goal," "plans," "objective," "should" or similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers, or other representations made by the company to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other representatives of the Company. For such statements, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. The forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause the future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by the company, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement which may be made by or on behalf of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 