Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to a number of risks, including those enumerated below. An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. Each reader and investor should carefully read and consider these risk factors which may affect the Company’s future results and financial conditions. If the damages threatened by any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations, and cash flows would likely suffer significantly. In any of those cases, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you may lose all of part of your investment. 1. Risks Relating to the Company and Its Business The Company’s main business is operating coal mines in China. China is developing fast, but China has a sophisticated, long history with complicated cultural traditions, which are vastly different from that of the United States. The decision-making processes of China are different than those of the United States, which becomes a major risk as the Company is incorporated in the United States but operates in China. As China is still developing its legal system, laws in China are not the same as those in the United States. A coal business having United States equity and ownership controls is allowed in China. However, coal mining in China is operated under Chinese government mining licenses, subject to governmental influence and control. Potential industrial accidents and mining safety are major risks to the Company. Business activities conducted in China 8 are generally neither covered by U.S. laws nor subject to the American judicial system. Any legal system reversal or social unrest in China could adversely affect the Company’s financial conditions and results of operations. As the Company is in the business of coal mining, mining-related industrial accidents do happen. It is the Chinese government’s policy to improve upon mining safety to avoid accidents. The Company is reviewing existing operational standards, including insurance coverage, and is in discussions to improve the quality control standards of its mining operations. There are critical and major risks to the Company’s mining operations, and each investor needs to consider such risks seriously before making an investment in the Company. 2. Ownership of Land and Mining Rights Contrary to the outright ownership of land in the United States, land in China is only leased to lessees on a long-term basis, ranging from 40 to 70 years. Currently, no law in China prohibits the continual lease of the same land by the lessee after expiration of the lease. Coal mining licenses are the exclusive evidence for approval of a coal mine’s mining rights by the Chinese government. Similar to the ownership of land in China, coal reserves are owned by the Chinese government, which issues a mining license when it leases exclusive mining rights to a mining operator on a long term basis (normally 50 years) that allows the mining operators to operate and extract coal from the mine. The government charges all mining operators a resources (usage) fee ranging from 2%-3% based on the value of the coal excavated from the ground. The coal industry in China is heavily regulated by the government for safety and operational reasons. Several licenses and permits are required in order to operate a coal mine. These licenses and permits, once issued, are to be reviewed and renewed, typically once a year. In addition, many privately owned coal mines, including the 2 Mines, are owned via either a proprietorship or a partnership instead of by a company, due to historical reasons. Private owners under a proprietorship or a partnership of the Company’s mines may subject to greater risks than that of corporations which have limited liabilities. 3. Cultural, Political and Language Differences There are material cultural, political and language differences between China and the United States, which make business negotiations and doing business more difficult in China than in the United States. Furthermore, continuing trade surpluses, a result of greater Chinese exports to the U.S. than U.S. exports to China, have become a sensitive political issue in the United States, and various members of United States legislature have threatened trade sanctions against China should the country continue a trade surplus with the United States. In addition, continuing strong economic growth in China with possible military buildup may result in American economic sanctions against China that could adversely affect the financial position and results of operations of the Company. 4. Fluctuation in the Value of the Renminbi (RMB) May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Your Investment Since 1994, the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including U.S. Dollars, has been based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, which are set daily based on the previous day’s PRC interbank foreign exchange market rate and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of RMB to U.S. Dollars has generally been stable. On July 21, 2005, however, PBOC announced a reform of its exchange rate system. Under the reform, RMB is no longer effectively linked to the U.S. Dollar but instead is allowed to trade in a tight 0.3% band against a basket of foreign currencies. The Chinese currency is considered by many to be under valued against other foreign currencies, including the U.S. Dollar. The Chinese RMB thus may appreciate against the U.S. Dollar. The value of the RMB has increased since the Summer of 2005, and the trend of further appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar continued in 2008. When and if the Chinese Government allows a floating exchange rate, it is expected the RMB will appreciate more in its value. The United States has requested that China allow its currency exchange rate to float freely. Implications of currency fluctuation may or may not be favorable to the Company and its investments in China. 5. We Depend on Key Persons and the Loss of Any Key Person Could Adversely Affect Operations The future success of L & L’s investments in China is dependent on the Company’s management team, including its Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, its professional team, and advisors, who speak the 9 languages, understand cultural differences, and are adept at doing business internationally. If one or more of the Company’s key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, the Company may not be able to easily replace them, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel. The loss of the Company’s key personnel could severely disrupt the Company’s business and its financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, since the industries the Company invests in are characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, the Company may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future. The Company cannot assure its investors that it will be able to attract or retain the key personnel needed to achieve our business objectives. Furthermor e, the Company does not maintain key-man life insurance for any of its key personnel. Currently, only the CEO is covered by a one-year term accident insurance policy in China, which is paid for by the Company. We are in process to obtain a life insurance package for such a key person in case of loss his ability to perform, but as of August 11, 2009 such insurance has not been obtained. 6. Some of Our Directors and Officers Reside Outside of the United States Because our Company's directors and officer(s) reside both within and outside of the United States, it may be difficult for an investor to enforce his or her rights against them or to enforce United States court judgments against them if they live outside the United States. Most of the Company's assets, including the recently acquired L & L Coal Partners (2 Mines) and the KMC coal wholesale business, are located in China, outside of the United States. Additionally, the Company plans to continue acquiring other energy-related entities in China in the future. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon the Company's directors or officers, or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of the Company's directors and officers under federal securities laws. Further, it is unclear i f extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the federal securities laws. 7. Our Business has Limited Insurance Coverage in China The Company has very limited business insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. In particular, insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. No business liability or disruption insurance coverage is available for the Company's business operations in China. Any business disruption, industrial accidents in coal related operations, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources 8. Chinese Legal System/Enforcement of Agreements, Including Acquisition Agreements in China Despite China having its own securities laws and regulators, the Chinese legal system is in a developmental stage and has historically not enforced its Chinese securities law as rigidly as their U.S. counterparts. As China is not under the common law system, business conducted there is ruled by the people, not ruled by law which is different from the U.S. In addition, China’s judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, resulting in significant uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation in China. Consequently, there is a risk that should a dispute arise between the Company and any party with whom the Company has entered into a material agreement in China, the Company may be unable to enforce such agreements under the Chinese legal system. Chinese law will govern almost all of the Company's acquisition agreements, many of which may also require the approval of Chinese governmen t agencies. Thus, the Company cannot assure investors that the target business will be able to enforce any of the Company’s material agreements or that remedies will be available outside China. The Company is aware that on October 21, 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange ("SAFE") issued a new circular ("Circular 75"), effective November 1, 2005, which repealed Circular 11 and Circular 29, which previously required Chinese residents to seek approval from SAFE before establishing any control of a foreign company or transfer of China-based assets or equity for the shares of the foreign company. SAFE also issued a news release about the issuance of its Circular 75 to make it clear that China’s national policies encourage the efforts by Chinese private companies and high technology companies to obtain offshore financing. Circular 75 confirmed that the uses of offshore special purpose vehicles (“SPV”) as holding companies for PRC investments are permitted as long as proper foreign exchange registrations are made with SAFE. As China starts to develop its legal system, additional legal, administrative, and regulatory rules and regulations may be enacted, and the Company may become subject to the additional rules and regulation applicable to the Company’s Chinese subsidiaries. In the event that the Company has a disagreement with a 10 government agency, or a business entity in China, L & L will negotiate with such party to resolve the disagreement in order to maintain harmonious relationships while doing business in China. Despite the fact that the entire registration process has not been completed, the Company has received an approval from the Chinese government for L & L’s ownership of KMC Inc. as of April 30, 2009. We are also in the process of registering our ownership equity ownership interest in the 2 Mines (DaPuAn Mine and SuTsong Mine) with the Chinese government, under the provisional name “L & L Coal Partners” through a nominee who is a Chinese citizen. The LEK investment was formulated in 2004 prior to the SAFE Circular, which may be grand-fathered out off SAFE registration. In addition, we recently spun off LEK on January 31, 2009. It is unclear to what extent the regulations apply to the Company. The Company believes that Circular 75 and other related Circulars or regulations may likely be further clarified by SAFE, in writing or through oral comments by officials from SAFE, or through implementation by S AFE in connection with actual transactions. The Company recently entered into an agreement for the acquisition of 65% of equity interest of Hon Shen Coal Company on July 16, 2009, and the Company will also be commencing shortly the registration procedures that are required by the Chinese government for such acquisition. 9. Risks Associated with the Company’s Business Strategy Contemplating Growth May Need More Capital As the Company continues to grow quickly, it requires capital infusions from the capital market. Under our current business strategy, our ability to grow will depend on the availability of additional funds, suitable acquisition targets at an acceptable cost, meeting the Company’s liability requirements, and working capital. The Company’s ability to compete effectively, to reach agreements with acquisition targets on commercially reasonable terms, to secure critical financing and to attract professional managers are critical to the Company’s success. The benefits of an acquisition may take considerable time to develop and we cannot assure investors that any particular acquisition or joint venture will produce the intended benefits. Moreover, the identification and completion of these transactions may require us to expend significant management time and effort and other resources. 10. The Company Acquisition Strategy May Result in Dilution to Its Stockholders The Company’s business strategy calls for strategic acquisitions of other coal related businesses. In the past, as a result of the acquisitions of KMC and LEK, the Company issued 485,600 common shares and 1,708,283 common shares, respectively, as consideration for these two (2) purchases. The Company also issued 400,000 common shares in connection with its acquisition of the controlling 60% equity interest in L & L Coal Partners, which, in turn, owns the 2 Mines. It is anticipated that future acquisitions will require cash and issuances of L & L capital stock, including our common stock, warrants, preferred shares, or convertible bonds in the future. To the extent we are required to pay cash for any acquisition, we anticipate that we would be required to obtain additional equity and/or debt financing from either the public sector, or private financing. Equity financing would result in dilution for our stockho lders. Stock issuances and equity financing, if obtained, may not be on terms favorable to us, and could result in dilution to our stockholders at the time(s) of these stock issuances and equity financings, thus creating a risk factor. In addition, the availability of significant amounts of L & L common stock for sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of August 11, 2009, there were approximately 21.9 million shares of common stock outstanding, with 400,000 shares of treasury stock held by the Company, and a certain amount of warrants issued. Please refer to the Statement of Shareholders’ Equity for details. 11. Recently Enacted Changes in Securities Laws and Regulations are Likely to Increase Our Costs The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), which became law in July 2002, requires changes in our corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. Sarbanes-Oxley also requires the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), to promulgate new rules on a variety of corporate governance and disclosure subjects. We expect these developments to increase our legal and financial compliance costs. We also expect these developments, in addition to the existing securities rules and regulation, will make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to attract and retain additional members to the Board of Directors (both independent and non-independent), and additional executive officers especially in regards to our recruitment of a full time Chief Financial Officer. At worst, due to expenses related to compliance with increasing securities laws and regulations, the Company may not be able to continue to maintain its status as a U. S. public company, and may need to seek listing in a market outside the United States, such as the Hong Kong Stock Exchange among other foreign exchanges, or become a private company. 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 