Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 17 Item 2. Properties 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 PART II 18 Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 18 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 33 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 65 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 65 Item 9B. Other Information 66 PART III 67 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 67 Item 11. Executive Compensation 67 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 67 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 68 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 68 PART IV 69 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 69 Signatures 70 Power of Attorney 71 Exhibit Index 72 Appendix A A-1 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Allowances A-1 ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS LeapFrog Enterprises, Inc. (“LeapFrog,” “we,” “us” or “our”), founded in 1995 and incorporated in 1997 in the State of Delaware, is a leading developer of educational entertainment for children. Our product portfolio consists of multimedia learning platforms and related content and learning toys. We have developed a number of learning platforms, including the LeapPad family of learning tablets, the Leapster family of handheld learning game systems and the Tag and Tag Junior reading systems, which support a broad library of content titles. We have created hundreds of interactive content titles for our platforms, covering subjects such as phonics, reading, writing and math. In addition, we have a broad line of stand-alone learning toys. Many of our products connect to our proprietary online LeapFrog Learning Path (the “Learning Path”), which provides personalized feedback on a child’s learning progress and offers product recommendations to enhance each child’s learning experience. Our products are available in four languages and are sold globally through retailers, distributors and directly to consumers via the leapfrog.com online store and LeapFrog App Center. LeapFrog is headquartered in Emeryville, California. Business Segments and Operations We organize, operate and assess our business in two primary operating segments: United States (“U.S.”) and International. Refer to Note 20—“Segment Reporting” in our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for detailed information on our segments and their financial results for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. The operations of our business segments are described below. •United States: The U.S. segment is responsible for the development, design, sales and marketing of multimedia learning platforms and related content, as well as learning toys, sold in the U.S. This segment markets and sells our products directly to national and regional mass-market and specialty retailers and other retail stores and distributors. This segment also sells our products through our online store, App Center, and other Internet-based channels. In addition, beginning in late 2011, this segment began distributing third-party content through our App Center. The U.S. segment represented approximately 73%, 75% and 80% of LeapFrog’s consolidated net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The vast majority of this segment’s net sales are to three large retailers. Sales invoiced to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”), Toys “R” Us, Inc. (“Toys “R” Us) and Target Corporation (“Target”), in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 66%, 64% and 65% of the segment’s gross sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Each of these customers accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated and U.S. segment’s gross sales in each of 2012, 2011 and 2010. Accordingly, the loss of any of these three customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. •International: The International segment is responsible for the localization, sales and marketing of multimedia learning platforms and related content, as well as learning toys, originally developed for the U.S. This segment markets and sells our products to national and regional mass-market and specialty retailers and other outlets through our offices in the United Kingdom, France, Canada and Mexico, as well as through distributors in various markets such as Australia, South Africa and Spain. In addition, beginning in late 2011, this segment began distributing third-party content through our App Center to certain territories. The International segment represented approximately 27%, 25% and 20% of our consolidated net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In 2012, the United Kingdom accounted for 10% of our consolidated net sales, but no single country represented 10% or more in 2011 and 2010. Sales invoiced to Wal-Mart and Toys “R” Us in aggregate accounted for approximately 27%, 30% and 32% of the segment’s gross sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 1 Table of Contents Product Portfolio Our product portfolio for both business segments includes the following: Multimedia Learning Platforms: Our multimedia learning platform products include innovative features that facilitate a wide variety of learning experiences provided by our rich content libraries available in both cartridge and digitally-downloadable forms. All of our multimedia learning platforms are web-enabled and connect to the Learning Path. Hardware •LeapPad2: During 2012, we launched our second-generation LeapPad for children ages three to nine. In addition to existing LeapPad features, LeapPad2 updates include: front and back cameras, faster processor, longer battery life and a recharger pack option, and four gigabytes of memory, double the on-board memory of LeapPad, allowing storage of up to 25,000 photos or 70 downloads. LeapPad2 is compatible with both cartridges and digital content from our App Center (described below). •LeapPad: During 2011, we launched LeapPad, a kid-tough, personalized learning tablet for children ages three to nine with a built-in camera and video recorder. The tablet includes art, story, and photo studio applications and two gigabytes of memory. LeapPad is compatible with both cartridges and digital content from our App Center. •LeapsterGS: LeapsterGS, launched in 2012 and designed for children ages four to nine, is our next-generation Leapster Explorer. Updated features include motion-based play, a built-in camera and video recorder, kid-friendly controls, and a recharger pack option. LeapsterGS is compatible with both cartridges and App Center content. •Leapster Explorer: Leapster Explorer, launched in 2010 and designed for children ages four to nine, is a handheld learning game system featuring 512 megabytes of memory as well as optional attachments such as a camera and recharger pack. Leapster Explorer is compatible with both cartridges and App Center content. •Tag: Our Tag reading system, launched worldwide in 2008 and designed for children ages four to eight, is a stylus-based reading system that leverages core technology of optical pattern reading hardware. The Tag reading system is intended to develop fundamental reading skills. •Tag Junior: Our Tag Junior reading system was introduced worldwide in 2009 and leverages the same core technology as the Tag reading system, but is designed to introduce younger children, ages one to four, to books and reading. Content •Game Cartridges: We sell over 40 educational learning games in game cartridge format. Our game cartridges are compatible with LeapPad2, LeapPad, LeapsterGS and Leapster Explorer. Our cartridges allow users to play a game across multiple platforms and feature LeapFrog-owned characters such as Mr. Pencil and Pet Pals and popular licensed characters such as the Cars, Toy Story and Brave characters as well as Dora the Explorer and SpongeBob SquarePants. •Ultra eBooks: Our Ultra eBooks use LeapPad’s advanced design to turn reading into an interactive experience. Our Ultra eBooks contain many features to reinforce reading comprehension, such as leveled story text, phonics help, a visual dictionary, built-in reading comprehension activities and embedded mini-games. Our Ultra eBooks are available in cartridge or digital format (via our App Center) and are only compatible with our LeapPad family of learning tablets. •Downloadable Apps: We sell over 475 titles of downloadable digital content (apps) via our App Center. Our apps include a wide variety of learning games, videos, music, flashcards, and other learning content. In addition, the learning games available as game cartridges, the Ultra eBooks and many of the books compatible with the Tag platforms are also available as downloadable apps. Our apps feature LeapFrog-owned characters, licensed characters and content, and third-party video content and music collections such as Barbie, Dora the Explorer, Kidz Bop and Thomas the Tank Engine. Our apps cover topics such as creativity through art, music and imaginative play, as well as school basics through mathematics, reading and writing, geography, life skills, and sciences, among others. Our apps are exclusively compatible with LeapFrog multimedia learning platforms. 2 Table of Contents •Books: The Tag and Tag Junior library of more than 80 books, maps and games is designed to guide children through their learn-to-read journey, from their early exploration of board books with Tag Junior through Tag adventures that bring reading skills to life. These books, maps and games feature LeapFrog-owned characters and popular licensed characters as well. Learning Toys: Our learning toys are intended to support development of a number of important skills for infants and young children, including phoneme, letter, number and color recognition, musical awareness and fine motor skills. Learning toys, because of their low price points and younger audience, create customer entry points to the LeapFrog brand that facilitate graduation to our multimedia learning platforms. •Touch Magic: Our Touch Magic line of interactive toys, which encourages learning and exploration through intuitive touch technology, was launched in 2012. These unique touch-enabled toys bring colorful graphics and popular themes together to deliver a fun, interactive experience. The Touch Magic line introduces early literacy, musical creativity, numbers and early vocabulary. The portfolio includes Touch Magic Learning Bus, Touch Magic Rockin' Guitar, Touch Magic Counting Train and Touch Magic Discovery Town. •Scout Collection: Our Scout Collection, launched in 2009, is a line of learning toys themed around our proprietary Scout and Violet puppy dog characters. The line includes My Pal Scout and My Pal Violet, customizable, interactive plush puppies intended for children as young as six months old that are web-enabled and connect to the Learning Path. The line also includes Scribble & Write, Chat & Count, and My Own Leaptop, which teach skills including early handwriting, counting, alphabet and animal names. In 2012, we added My Talking LapPup, which provides kids age 6 – 24 months with exposure to shapes, colors and numbers, and the Scout-themed Learn & Groove Music Player, with 20 upbeat songs that encourage children to explore and learn on the go. •Other Products: We also have a general line of learning toys which includes the new 2012 launches of Letter Factory Phonics, Animal Adventure Learning Table, AlphaZoo Spinner, Poppin’ Play Piano, and Musical Counting Pal. These join our existing line of learning toys that includes Shape & Sharing Picnic Basket, My Discovery House, and Lettersaurus, among others. Online Services: •LeapFrog Learning Path: The Learning Path is a web-based service that we introduced in the U.S. and Canada in 2008 and in the United Kingdom in early 2009. The core of the Learning Path is an online tool that helps parents track what their children are learning with our connected products. Parents are able to “see the learning” and gain personalized insight into their child’s learning progress. The Learning Path gives our consumers access to a variety of downloadable content and to online rewards programs that encourage learning. The Learning Path combines our proprietary curriculum and technology with the power of the web to bring new levels of engagement, customization and personalization to LeapFrog products. The Learning Path builds direct one-to-one customer relationships with parents by empowering them with personalized feedback about their children’s learning progress and by suggesting specific LeapFrog products that will further develop their children’s skills. The Learning Path is a key component of our strategy to build direct relationships with parents, keeping them engaged with us as their children grow. 3 Table of Contents We believe that the Learning Path adds value to all of our connected products and expands our relationships with existing customers by allowing us to provide personalized product recommendations and other relevant information. Many of our products, including LeapPad2, LeapPad, LeapsterGS, Leapster Explorer, Tag and Tag Junior multimedia learning platforms, and My Pal Scout, My Pal Violet and My Own Leaptop are designed to connect to the Learning Path. •App Center: During 2011, we launched our App Center, through which customers may directly purchase downloadable digital content with a personal credit card, PayPal or with App Center cards sold at retailers or our online store. During 2012, we added features including the ability to access and make purchases via a web browser instead of solely through our proprietary downloadable software, ratings and reviews, and gifting. Our App Center allows customers to shop for products by platform, by skill (such as reading and writing or mathematics) or by category (such as games, Ultra eBooks, music or creativity). For information on sales of product lines that constituted 10% or more of total net sales by segment, see Note 20—“Segment Reporting” in our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information about the risks associated with our new products, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“Our business depends on our ability to correctly predict highly changeable consumer preferences and product trends” and “Our growing strategic focus on online products and services depends on consumer acceptance of downloadable content and data collection, including our privacy practices” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Competition Our multimedia platform products compete in the electronic learning-aids category of the toy industry; however, our product strategy means that we increasingly compete in a broader arena with a variety of electronic products including tablet computers, eBook readers and mobile devices. Our multimedia platforms, such as our LeapPad and LeapPad2 learning tablets and LeapsterGS and Leapster Explorer platforms, compete against handheld gaming platforms from Sony and Nintendo and against mobile devices such as Apple’s iPhone and iPad and Android-based phones and tablets. Our learning toys compete specifically in the preschool toy category of the toy industry in the U.S. and selected international markets, in which competition is significant. We believe the principal areas of competition in our industry are learning content, performance, features, quality, brand recognition and price. We believe our learning toys, multimedia learning platforms, and the related content, online capabilities, and other content compete favorably on these bases. Our products are sometimes viewed by consumers as premium goods that are more expensive than our competitors’ products. We believe the LeapFrog brand is recognized for comparably higher quality educational products, enabling us to compare favorably with many of our current competitors despite premium pricing. In addition, we believe our learning toy product category is an important competitive differentiator because it introduces parents to the LeapFrog brand, provides an entry point to the Learning Path and supports our associated strategy to build direct relationships with customers. We face the challenge of competitors introducing similar products or functionality soon after we introduce our new products or product lines, and these competitors may be able to offer their products at lower prices using cheaper manufacturing processes or materials, more limited functionality, or reduced safety features. In addition, many of our direct, indirect and potential competitors have significantly longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our principal competitors in the toy industry have included Mattel, Inc., primarily under its Fisher-Price brand, Hasbro, Inc. and its Playskool division, and VTech Holdings Ltd. For information on how competition could affect our business, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our sales and market share could decline.” Our products must also compete for the leisure time of children and the discretionary spending of parents with other forms of media and entertainment. We design our products to bring fun to learning in order to compete favorably with these outside competitive influences. 4 Table of Contents Manufacturing We are committed to designing and manufacturing products that meet applicable safety and regulatory requirements. As is the case with most toy manufacturers and many consumer electronics companies, most of our products are manufactured in China. We actively manage our supplier base, mandating compliance with U.S. and international safety inspections and enforcing our product standards. Our standards require that we meet or exceed all applicable regulatory requirements regarding safety in the design, manufacture, packaging, and delivery into the hands of each product’s ultimate user, a child. Our quality control system processes include product testing and verification for safety and reliability, starting in the design phase of a product’s life cycle and continuing through production and field support. For more information about the adverse effects that could result from possible errors or defects in our products, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“Any errors or defects contained in our products, or our failure to comply with applicable safety standards, could result in recalls, delayed shipments, rejection of our products and damage to our reputation, and could expose us to litigation or regulatory action.” Our manufacturing and operations strategy is designed to maximize the use of outsourced services, particularly with respect to the actual production and physical distribution of our products. We outsource substantially all of our manufacturing using several Asia-based manufacturers, most of which manufacture our products at facilities in the Guangdong province in the southeastern region of China. These manufacturers are selected based on their technical and production capabilities and are matched to particular products to achieve cost and quality efficiencies. We depend on these manufacturers to produce sufficient volumes of our finished products in a timely fashion, at satisfactory cost and quality levels and in accordance with our and our customers’ terms of engagement. Labor costs in China continue to increase due to a variety of factors. For information on the potential business risk resulting from our reliance on contract manufacturers, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“We rely on a limited number of manufacturers to produce our finished products, and our reputation and operating results could be harmed if they fail to produce quality products in a timely and cost-effective manner and in sufficient quantities or if our manufacturing process is otherwise disrupted.” We have established subsidiaries in Hong Kong and Shenzhen, China to work closely with our contract manufacturing service providers. These subsidiaries manage product design, the supply of raw materials, labor and the assembly process. Most of our products are manufactured from basic raw materials such as plastic and paper, and a majority of our products require electronic components. These raw materials are readily available from a variety of sources, but may be subject to significant price fluctuations. Some of the electronic components used to make our products, including our application-specific integrated circuits (“ASIC”), currently come from single suppliers. For information as to how this concentration of suppliers could affect our business, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“Future operating results depend on the cost of our components and raw materials and our ability to obtain these in sufficient quantities from our suppliers or alternative sources.” Research and Development We design our multimedia learning platforms and related content, learning toys, and online services using a combination of in-house research and development (“R&D”) resources and outside consultants. Generally, once the design phase of the product is complete, the remaining development and manufacturing of the products are outsourced to third parties. Our total R&D expense was $36.6 million, $33.8 million and $33.4 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. •Multimedia Learning Platform and Learning Toy Development: We believe that investment in R&D is a critical factor in strengthening our product portfolio. We have assembled a team of specialists with backgrounds in a wide variety of fields, including education, child development, hardware engineering, software development, content development, video games and toys. We have internally developed each of our current multimedia learning platforms using licensed technology if warranted. For example, we use a version of Macromedia’s Flash player in our Leapster and LeapPad multimedia learning platforms. We also use optical pattern recognition hardware and software from Anoto AB in our Tag and Tag Junior products. We have internally developed the majority of our learning toys. 5 Table of Contents •Content Development: Our content production department oversees development of our interactive books, educational games, and stand-alone products, applying a pedagogical approach, which is based on established educational standards. Much of our content uses licensed characters, such as the Disney Princesses, Dora the Explorer, Scooby-Doo, SpongeBob SquarePants and Thomas the Tank Engine, as well as characters from Brave, Penguins of Madagascar, Cars 2, and Tangled. Most of our concept designs are created by our in-house content production department, many members of which have prior experience in the education, entertainment and educational content or video game industries. •Development of Online Services: Our online-connected products provide accessibility to the Learning Path and the App Center, both of which are key competitive differentiators. Our online capabilities, such as our Learning Path, App Center and online store at leapfrog.com, are developed through a combination of in-house team members and third-party resources. Many members of our development and production team have prior experience in online engineering and design. Our online services are based on a combination of internally-developed content, in-licensed content and web applications hosted by third parties. Advertising and Marketing Our advertising and marketing strategy is designed to position LeapFrog as a leader in providing engaging, effective, and fun educational entertainment for children and to promote a strong brand that parents seek out to teach children in a fun and engaging way with the goal of helping every child achieve their potential. We take an integrated approach to reach both parents and children using a mix of advertising vehicles, including television, online, social media outlets such as Facebook and Twitter, and direct-to-consumer programs. We have well-established retailer relationships and also communicate our messages and offerings through in-store advertisements and point-of-purchase displays and signage. Advertisements run by our retail partners, such as Target, Toys “R” Us, and Wal-Mart, highlight promotional activities and the availability of particular LeapFrog products at these retailers’ outlets. We leverage public relations globally as a strategy to gain additional recognition and momentum for our brand and products through media outreach focused on garnering both product-specific and corporate media coverage. Distribution Our customers generally fit into one of the following categories: •Retailers that resell our products to consumers, through their retail stores and their own online channels, in the U.S. and some international regions; •Distributors that purchase our products for resale to retailers, generally internationally, and also to U.S. schools and school districts as education market resellers; and •Direct consumers who purchase our products via our website, leapfrog.com, and our LeapFrog App Center. Retailers and distributors purchase our products in advance, for pickup from our manufacturers in Asia, or through orders placed to our regional warehouses where we maintain inventories to meet expected short-term demand. Products are generally shipped through free-on-board terms. Customers pay through pre-established letters of credit or upon payment terms, which are usually based on the date of shipment. Generally, we do not provide rights of return or extended payment terms to our customers, except for industry standard terms surrounding the return of defective merchandise. 6 Table of Contents Intellectual Property and Licenses We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the U.S. and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our brand, characters, and proprietary technology and information. We maintain an active program to protect our investment in technology and brands by attempting to secure patent rights, trademark registrations and other intellectual property registrations. We have filed and obtained a number of patents in the U.S. and abroad. We believe that the duration of the applicable patents we are granted is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. While our patents are an important element of the protection of our intellectual property, our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any one patent. For a discussion of how our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to prevent other companies from using similar or identical technology, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to include intellectual property owned by others in our games, our operating results will suffer.” For a discussion of how our intellectual property rights may not insulate us from claims of infringement by third parties, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“Third parties have claimed, and may claim in the future, that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may not succeed in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights.” In addition to proprietary materials we have developed, we use various licensed technologies in some of our key products, such as LeapPad, Leapster and Tag. Our continued use of these rights is dependent on our continued compliance with applicable license terms. Any failure to do so could interrupt our supply chain and require us to modify our products or business plans. Please see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to include intellectual property owned by others in our games, our operating results will suffer” for further discussion of the risks we face in relying on third-party technology licenses for our products. Seasonality Our business is highly seasonal with a significant portion of our revenue occurring in the second half of the year. Given relatively low sales volumes in the first half of the year and the fixed nature of many of our operating expenses, which occur fairly evenly throughout the year, our results of operations have historically been stronger in our third and fourth quarters relative to our first and second quarters. Conversely, our cash flow from operations tends to be highest in the first quarter of the year when we collect a majority of our accounts receivable related to sales made in the fourth quarter of the prior year. Cash flow from operations is generally lowest in our third quarter, as accounts receivable collections taper off and we build our inventory levels in preparation for the fourth quarter holiday season. The reduction in cash flow in the third quarter generally means that our available cash is at its lowest point for the year in the first month of the fourth quarter. Our seasonal sales patterns for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 are shown in the table below. Years Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Percent of total net sales: 1st quarter 13% 9% 10% 2nd quarter 12% 12% 14% 3rd quarter 33% 33% 32% 4th quarter 42% 46% 44% Total 100% 100% 100% Seasonal purchasing patterns and their related production lead times create risk in our business due to possible under-production of popular items and over-production of items that do not match consumer demand. In addition, our retail customers continue to manage their inventories stringently, requiring us to ship products close to the time of expected consumer demand. For more information about the effects of seasonality on our business see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“Our business is highly seasonal, and our annual operating results depend, in large part, on sales relating to the brief holiday season.” 7 Table of Contents Financial Information about Geographic Areas Financial information regarding export sales and international operations versus U.S. sales and operations is included in Note 20—“Segment Reporting” in our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding risks associated with our foreign operations upon which our international segment depends, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“Our international business may not succeed and subjects us to risks associated with international operations.” Employees As of December 31, 2012, we employed 552 people on a full-time basis as compared to 494 as of December 31, 2011. The increase in full-time employees was driven by hiring in engineering, online services, and marketing. We also retain independent contractors to provide various services. Except with respect to some of our foreign subsidiaries, we are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements and we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Some of our foreign subsidiaries are subject to collective bargaining agreements whose benefits and terms are codified and required under local labor laws. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth information with respect to our executive officers as of March 11, 2013: Name Age Position Held John Barbour 53 Chief Executive Officer Raymond L. Arthur 54 Chief Financial Officer Michael J. Dodd 53 President and Chief Operating Officer Gregory B. Ahearn 46 Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Christopher Spalding 51 Senior Vice President and Managing Director, EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia) John Barbour has served as our Chief Executive Officer and as a board member since March 2011. Prior to joining LeapFrog, he served as President of the GameHouse Division of RealNetworks, Inc. from October 2008 to August 2010. From October 2006 to October 2008, Mr. Barbour served as the Managing Partner of Volta Capital, LLC, a strategy and investment consulting firm. From 1999 to June 2006, Mr. Barbour was employed by Toys “R” Us, Inc., a leading retailer of children’s toys and products. He served as President of Toys “R” Us U.S. from August 2004 to June 2006. Prior to that, he served as President of Toys “R” Us International and Chairman of Toys “R” Us Japan from February 2002 to August 2004. From 1999 to 2002, Mr. Barbour served as President and Chief Executive Officer of toysrus.com, a subsidiary of Toys “R” Us, Inc. Mr. Barbour has also held senior-level positions with Hasbro, Inc., OddzOn Products, Inc., and Universal Matchbox Group, Ltd. Mr. Barbour holds a B.Sc. in Chemistry, with Honors, from the University of Glasgow. Raymond L. Arthur has served as our Chief Financial Officer since July 2012. Prior to joining LeapFrog, Mr. Arthur served as Chief Financial Officer at The Pep Boys – Manny, Moe, & Jack from 2008 to 2012, where he built the company’s finance organization. Prior to that, Mr. Arthur served in various capacities for Toys “R” Us, Inc., including as Chief Financial Officer of Toys “R” Us, Inc., from 2004 to 2006, where he oversaw a strategic review and restructuring of company-wide operations, as President and Chief Financial Officer of toysrus.com from 2000 to 2003 and as Corporate Controller of Toys “R” Us from 1999 to 2000. Previously, he worked in a variety of roles for General Signal Corporation, American Home Products Corporation, American Cyanamid Company and in public accounting. Mr. Arthur received his B.A. in Accounting from William Paterson College. 8 Table of Contents Michael J. Dodd has served as our President and Chief Operating Officer since September 2010 and as our Chief Operating Officer since March 2010. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President, Supply Chain and Operations from April 2005 to February 2010. Prior to joining LeapFrog, he co-founded Executive Technology, Inc., a value-added reseller and system integrator of information technology products, and served as its Chief Operating Officer from September 2003 through April 2005. From May 2002 to September 2003, Mr. Dodd served as Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer and Chief Operating Officer at Targus Group International, Inc., a provider of mobile personal computers and wireless accessories. Mr. Dodd was a Vice President, Operations at Juniper Networks, Inc., a manufacturer of internal protocol routers from September 2000 to May 2002. From November 1989 to September 2000, Mr. Dodd served in various capacities at Compaq Computer Corporation, a manufacturer of personal computers, most recently as Managing Director of Operations and Strategic Procurement for the Presario personal computer business. Mr. Dodd received his B.B.A. from Texas A&M University. Gregory B. Ahearn has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since June 2012. Prior to joining LeapFrog, Mr. Ahearn was Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Toys “R” Us, Inc. where he was responsible for all aspects of marketing, advertising, and promotions, including strategy, media analysis, brand position, and creative services for the Toys “R” Us, Babies “R” Us, and FAO Schwartz brands in the United States. Prior to that, Mr. Ahearn also served in several other senior leadership roles for Toys “R” Us, Inc. during his tenure there from 2000 to June 2012. Prior to joining Toys “R” Us, Mr. Ahearn was Vice President of Marketing for Hasbro, Inc.’s OddzOn toy division from 1997 to 2000 where he oversaw the development and marketing for brands such as Koosh collectibles, sport and bubbles, Vortex high-performance toy sports and Rubik’s puzzles and games. From 1995 to 1997, Mr. Ahearn held senior marketing positions at OddzOn Products, Inc. prior to its acquisition by Hasbro. Mr. Ahearn also previously held several brand management positions at Mattel, Inc. Mr. Ahearn received his bachelor’s degree from Georgetown University and his Masters of Business Administration from the University of Southern California. Christopher Spalding has served as our Senior Vice President & Managing Director EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia) since January 2011. Previously, he served as Managing Director EMEA from October 2009 and was given further territory responsibility for Asia in December 2009. Prior to joining LeapFrog, Mr. Spalding was COO of Metro International Media SA from May 2006 to December 2007. Prior to this, he worked for Associated Newspapers (now part of A&N Media Limited) as Circulation Sales Director from September 2001 to May 2006, Emap plc (now part of Eden Bidco Ltd) from November 1998 to September 2001, as well as a number of other fast-moving consumer goods companies including The Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo, Inc. and Virgin Group Limited. Available Information We file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Such reports and other information filed with the SEC are available free of charge on the investor relations section of our website located at www.leapfroginvestor.com under “Financial Information – SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room of the SEC by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those described below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be considered carefully before you decide whether to buy, hold or sell our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial conditions, results of operations and stock price. If global economic conditions deteriorate, our business and financial results could be affected. We develop and distribute educational entertainment for children. Our performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending. Consumers’ discretionary purchases of educational entertainment items for children may be impacted by unemployment, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit, falling home prices, lower consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors that affect consumer spending behavior. Uncertainty with respect to future government spending levels in the U.S. and related national debt matters, along with lingering questions about the debt crisis in certain member states of the European Union, poses a significant threat to the global economy as a whole. If these or other matters led to a deterioration of global economic conditions, it could potentially have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our business depends on our ability to correctly predict highly changeable consumer preferences and product trends. We operate in an industry where consumer preferences can change drastically from year to year. Even our successful products typically have a relatively short period of high demand followed by a decrease in demand as the products mature. For example, net sales of the classic Leapster platform peaked in 2006 and are no longer material to our overall sales. We depend on our ability to correctly identify changing consumer sentiments well in advance and supply new products that respond to such changes on a timely basis. We also rely on our ability to identify third-party entertainment media that is likely to be popular with consumers and license rights to such media to incorporate into our products. In addition, we need to be able to accurately forecast sales of these products in order to optimize our production schedules and manage our inventory. Consumer preferences, particularly children’s preferences, are continually changing and are difficult to predict. Since our products typically have a long development cycle, in some cases lasting over a year, it can be difficult to correctly predict changing consumer preferences and accurately forecast optimal production and sales targets for these products. If we are unable to correctly predict consumer preferences or successfully integrate popular third-party media with our own, it would negatively impact our operating results. To remain competitive and stimulate consumer demand, we must continue to develop new products and services and successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industries in which we compete, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. In 2011 and 2012, we introduced a number of new products and services to the market that represented a substantial portion of our 2012 sales and, in some cases, represented a significant change in the way we interact with consumers. For example, in 2011 we launched the LeapFrog App Center, which allows consumers to download content for use with some of our products directly from us instead of purchasing game cartridges from our retailers. In addition, some of the key products launched in recent years, including our 2012 release of the LeapPad2 and associated content on our App Center, have a high price point compared to other children’s products and apps. We cannot be sure that any new products or services will be widely accepted and purchased by consumers or that we will be able to successfully manage product introductions and transitions. Failure by consumers to accept our new products and services or to pay a higher price for some of our key products, or our failure to manage product introductions and transitions, could adversely affect our operating results. We rely on a small group of retailers that together accounted for the vast majority of our gross sales each year so economic or other difficulties that affect these retailers or changes in their purchasing or related decisions could have a significant impact on our business and operating results. 10 Table of Contents Our top three retailers in 2012 were Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us and Target, which accounted for approximately 66% of the U.S. segment’s gross sales in 2012 and 64% in 2011. In addition, Wal-Mart and Toys “R” Us accounted for approximately 27% of the international segment’s gross sales in 2012 and 30% in 2011. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on a small number of large retailers for the majority of our sales domestically and abroad. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our retailers and retailers make all purchases by delivering one-time purchase orders. As a result, pricing, shelf space, cooperative advertising or special promotions, among other things, with each retailer are subject to periodic negotiation and alteration. We rely on our retail customers to successfully sell our products to consumers. Economic and other factors that adversely affect retailers, such as increased competition from online retailers, liquidity problems, reduced access to credit, inability to raise capital, reduced sales, consolidation in the retail sector and store closures, bankruptcies and lower consumer confidence may also adversely affect us. For example, the bankruptcy of one of our customers in 2012 resulted in bad debt expense of approximately $3.1 million. If any of these retailers reduce their purchases from us, materially change the terms on which we conduct business with them or experience a downturn in their business for any reason, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our sales and market share could decline. We currently compete primarily in the learning toy and electronic learning-aids category of the U.S. toy industry and, to some degree, in the overall U.S. and international toy industry. We also compete, and may increasingly compete in the future, with makers of popular tablets, smart mobile devices and mobile game platforms. Each of these markets is very competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. For example, in 2012 our LeapPad products faced competition from several tablets designed for children and from general-purpose tablets made by major electronics manufacturers. Many of our direct, indirect and potential competitors have significantly longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly or more successfully than we can to changes in consumer requirements or preferences or to new or emerging technologies, and they may be able to use their economies of scale to produce products more cheaply. Further, with greater economies of scale and more distribution channels, they may be successful even if they sell at a lower margin. Our larger competitors may also be able to devote substantially greater resources, including personnel, spending and facilities to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. Our business is highly seasonal, and our annual operating results depend, in large part, on sales relating to the brief holiday season. Sales of consumer electronics and toy products in the retail channel are highly seasonal, causing a substantial majority of our sales to retailers to occur during the third and fourth quarters. Even though we achieved net income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, we incurred losses in the first and second quarters of 2012. Approximately 75%, 79% and 76% of our total net sales occurred during the second half of fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. A decline of net sales, in the third or fourth quarter in particular, will have a disproportionate negative impact on our results for the year and can lead to ongoing weakness in sales to retailers well into the following year. Therefore, we may be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events such as economic crises, strikes, earthquakes, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season. The success of our growing strategic focus on online products and services depends on consumer acceptance of downloadable content and data collection, including our privacy practices. Our multimedia platform products, such as the LeapPad2, the LeapsterGS, the Tag reading system, and some of our learning toys, are designed to be connected to a computer that has Internet access in order to download and access content and other features through our App Center and Learning Path. A growing percentage of our sales comes from these multimedia learning platform products. As we focus on Internet-based products and direct marketing to consumers through the Internet, any resistance by parents to buying children’s products requiring a computer in order to download content, or errors related to the collection of data by us from parents and children, could have a negative effect on our business and financial results. Further, concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. See also “System failures in our online services or web store could harm our business” below. 11 Table of Contents System failures in our online services or web store could harm our business. The online aspects of our business have grown substantially in strategic importance to our overall business. Any failure to provide a positive user experience in these services could have a negative impact on our reputation, sales and consumer relationships. If consumer demand for accessing our App Center or our website exceeds the capacity we have planned to handle during peak periods or if other technical issues arise, then we could lose sales and customers could be inconvenienced or become dissatisfied with our products. Any significant disruption to our App Center, website, internal computer systems, or those of our third-party service providers, or malfunctions related to transaction processing on our online store or content management systems, could result in a loss of potential or existing customers and sales. Although our systems have been designed to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. Any unplanned disruption of our systems could result in adverse financial impact to our operations. Future operating results depend on the cost of our components and raw materials and our ability to obtain these in sufficient quantities from our suppliers or alternative sources. Because some of the components used to make our products currently come from a single or a limited number of suppliers, we are subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many components that are available from multiple sources are at times subject to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. If our suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components or raw materials and we are unable to obtain an alternative source or if the price available from our current suppliers or an alternative source is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed and our operating results would suffer. In addition, as we do not have long-term agreements with our major suppliers and cannot guarantee their stability, they may stop manufacturing our components at any time with little or no notice. For example, in 2010, a sole-source supplier of an ASIC for one of our reading systems informed us that it was having financial difficulties, which required us to negotiate the purchase of certain intangible assets from the supplier in order to continue production of the ASIC. In addition, if we are required to use alternative sources, we may be required to redesign some aspects of the affected products, which may involve delays and additional expense. For example, the 2011 tsunami in Japan required us to replace a chip in the LeapPad. Although the introduction of the new chip did not ultimately increase our cost for the product or materially affect its performance, it introduced additional complexity into our supply chain and manufacturing processes, strained our internal resources, and introduced risk to our launch date. If there are any significant interruptions in the supply of components or if prices rise significantly, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our finished products or we may be unable to manufacture them at targeted cost levels, and our business and operating results could be harmed. 12 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of manufacturers to produce our finished products, and our reputation and operating results could be harmed if they fail to produce quality products in a timely and cost-effective manner and in sufficient quantities or if our manufacturing process is otherwise disrupted. We outsource substantially all of our manufacturing to a limited number of Asian manufacturers, most of which manufacture our products at facilities in the Guangdong province in the southeastern region of China. We depend on these manufacturers to produce sufficient volumes of our finished products in a timely fashion, at satisfactory cost and quality levels, and in accordance with our and our customers’ terms of engagement. If we determine that we need to order larger quantities of our products to meet customer demand, we may encounter delays and shortfalls in shipments based on manufacturer capacity issues. In addition, the costs of using contract manufacturers are subject to increase, which has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our cost of sales. Economic and other factors that adversely affect these manufacturers may also adversely affect us. For example, labor costs in China continue to increase due to a variety of factors, including tightening Chinese labor markets and the revaluation of Chinese currency to permit it to rise in value versus the U.S. dollar, leading to increased prices for us with some of our contract manufacturers. Furthermore, in the past, there have been product quality and safety issues for other producers of toys and other companies that manufacture goods in China. In addition, the risk of political instability and civil unrest exists in China, which could temporarily or permanently damage our manufacturing operations located there. See also “Political developments, changes in trade relations, the threat or occurrence of armed hostilities, terrorism, labor strikes, natural disasters or public health issues could have a material adverse effect on our business” below. If our manufacturers fail or are unable to produce quality finished products on time, at expected cost targets and in sufficient quantities, or if any of our products are found to be tainted or otherwise raise health or safety concerns, our reputation and operating results would suffer. If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, or on a timely basis, or if inventory levels are too high, our operating results will be adversely affected. The high degree of seasonality of our business places stringent demands on our inventory forecasting and production planning processes. This inventory management approach may be particularly challenging when combined with “just-in-time” inventory management systems commonly used by retailers to minimize their inventory levels. If we fail to meet tight shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our merchandise on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If our inventory forecasting and production planning processes result in our manufacturing inventory in excess of the levels demanded by our customers, we could be required to record inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if our processes result in our inventory levels being too low to meet customer demand, we may lose sales. If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to include intellectual property owned by others in our games, our operating results will suffer. Among our proprietary rights are inbound licenses from third parties for content such as characters, stories, music, illustrations and trade names, and for technologies we incorporate in our products including key technology used in our Tag and Tag Junior reading systems. In particular, we rely on our ability to acquire rights to popular entertainment media properties for content on our multimedia learning platforms. Our continued use of these rights is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain these license rights and at reasonable rates. Any failure to do so could significantly impact our content sales or interrupt our supply chain and require us to modify our products or business plans. Third parties have claimed, and may claim in the future, that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may not succeed in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights. In the course of our business, we periodically receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. If we, our distributors, our licensors or our manufacturers are found to be infringing the intellectual property rights of any third party, we or they may be required to obtain a license to use those rights, which may not be obtainable on reasonable terms, if at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development and sale of some of our products or against the use of a trademark or copyright in the sale of some of our products. Our insurance does not cover all types of intellectual property claims and insurance levels for covered claims may not be adequate to indemnify us for all the liability that could be imposed. 13 Table of Contents In addition, we rely, and plan to continue to rely, on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Contractual arrangements and other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter independent third-party development of similar technologies. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where we do not hold patents or trademarks or where the laws may not protect our intellectual property as fully as in the U.S. Some of our products and product features have limited intellectual property protection, and, as a consequence, we may not have the legal right to prevent others from reverse engineering or otherwise copying and using these features in competitive products. In addition, monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is costly, and any dispute or other litigation, regardless of outcome, may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. However, if we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our rights could be diminished and our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. Any errors or defects contained in our products, or our failure to comply with applicable safety standards, could result in recalls, delayed shipments, rejection of our products and damage to our reputation, and could expose us to litigation or regulatory action. Our products may contain errors or defects, which could result in the rejection of our products by our retailers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims. Individuals could sustain injuries from our products, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from such injuries. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. Moreover, we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. Concerns about potential public harm and liability may involve involuntary recalls or lead us to voluntarily recall selected products. Recalls or post-manufacture repairs of our products could harm our reputation and our competitive position, increase our costs or reduce our net sales. Costs related to unexpected defects include the costs of writing down the value of our inventory of defective products and providing product replacement, as well as the cost of defending against litigation related to the defective products. Further, as a result of recent recalls and safety issues related to products of a number of manufacturers in the toy industry, some of our retail customers have been increasing their testing requirements of the products we ship to them. These additional requirements may result in delayed or cancelled shipments, increased logistics and quality assurance costs, or both, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, recalls or post-manufacturing repairs by other companies in our industry could affect consumer behavior and cause reduced purchases of our products and increase our quality assurance costs in allaying consumer concerns. Our liquidity may be insufficient to meet the long-term or periodic needs of our business. In addition to cash received from the collection of accounts receivable, from time to time, we may fund our operations and strengthen our liquidity through borrowings under our line of credit. Our line of credit has numerous financial tests and covenants that affect the amount we can borrow, and includes various events of default that could impair our ability to access credit under the credit line. Any impairment of our ability to access our credit line, if combined with global credit market fluctuations, could increase our cost of capital or limit our ability to raise additional capital should we need it and materially impact our operations. Our international business may not succeed and subjects us to risks associated with international operations. 14 Table of Contents We derived approximately 27%, 25% and 20% of our net sales from markets outside the U.S. during fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our efforts to increase sales for our products outside the U.S. may not be successful and may not achieve higher sales or gross margins or contribute to profitability. Our business is, and will increasingly be, subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: • the appeal of our products in international markets; • difficulties managing and maintaining relationships with vendors, customers, retailers, distributors and other commercial partners; • increased investment and operational complexity to make our App Center compatible with the systems in various countries and compliant with local laws; • greater difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • transportation delays and interruptions, including cross-border delays due to customs clearance and other point-of-entry restrictions; • timely localization of products and content; • greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; and • limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings. Sales to our international customers are transacted primarily in the country’s local currency. If foreign currency weakens compared to the U.S. dollar, our International segment sales results will suffer. Any difficulties with our international operations could harm our future sales and operating results. We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations that could impose additional costs or changes on the conduct of our business. We operate in a highly regulated environment with international, federal, state and local governmental entities regulating many aspects of our business, including products and the importation of products. Regulations with which we must comply include accounting standards, taxation requirements (including changes in applicable income tax rates, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), trade restrictions, regulations regarding financial matters, environmental regulations, privacy, advertising directed toward children, safety and other administrative and regulatory restrictions. We are also subject to regulation by the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission and other similar federal, state and international regulatory authorities, some of which have conflicting standards and requirements. Compliance with the various laws and regulations and other requirements of regulatory authorities could impose additional costs on the conduct of our business. For example, if our products were made subject to an involuntary recall or other action by one of the regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over us, we may have to write off inventory and allow our customers to return products they purchased from us. Moreover, any failures to comply with laws and regulations could lead to significant negative media attention and consumer dissatisfaction, which could harm our sales and lead to widespread rejection of our products. In addition, numerous states have enacted, and many others are considering enacting, laws directed at manufacturers regarding recycling of electronic products. While we take steps that we believe are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we have achieved compliance or that we will be in compliance in the future. Failure to comply with the relevant regulations could result in monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in laws or regulations may lead to increased costs, changes in our effective tax rate, or the interruption of normal business operations that would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Political developments, changes in trade relations, the threat or occurrence of armed hostilities, terrorism, labor strikes, natural disasters or public health issues could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is international in scope. The deterioration of the political situation in a country in which we have significant sales, operations or third-party manufacturers or suppliers, or the breakdown of trade relations between the U.S. and a foreign country in which we have or utilize significant manufacturing facilities or have other operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, a change in trade status for China could result in a substantial increase in the import duty of toys manufactured in China and imported into the U.S. In addition, armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues, whether in the U.S. or abroad, could cause damage and disruption to our company, our suppliers, our manufacturers, or our customers or could create political or economic instability, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, our U.S. distribution center and our corporate headquarters are located in California near major earthquake faults that have experienced earthquakes in the past and that are expected to recur in the future. Although it is impossible to predict the consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our product or create delay or inefficiencies in our supply chain by making it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products to our customers, for our manufacturers to deliver products to us, or for suppliers to provide component parts. The loss of members of our executive management team or other key employees could adversely affect our business. We had a number of changes to our executive management team during 2012 and 2011. These changes had an immediate financial impact as a result of the payment of severance compensation and charges associated with equity grants for the retention of new management. While these changes can be a positive long-term change for us, there is an inherent loss of institutional knowledge associated with such turnover and this may create a risk, among other things, of overloading the remaining executives. In addition, transition associated with such changes has required, and may continue to require, significant management attention and consumption of time and resources, diverting away from the regular operations of our business. New executives typically bring change to an organization, as a result of implementing new goals and plans, which in turn can lead to changes in operating direction and the associated impact on the operations of the business, which may be uncertain or unknown. Furthermore, we cannot provide any assurances that we will retain our new or existing management and other key employees or that they will be successful in implanting our strategic vision or their new goals and plans. The loss of services of members of our executive management team or other key employees could have an adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to retain key personnel, then it may be difficult for us to maintain a competitive position within our industry or implement our strategic priorities. A few stockholders control a significant percentage of our voting power. The majority of holders of our Class A common stock may not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote. Our Class A common stock entitles its holders to one vote per share, and our Class B common stock entitles its holders to ten votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, Lawrence J. Ellison and entities controlled by him beneficially owned approximately 1.3 million shares of our Class B common stock and 1.6 million shares of our Class A common stock, Michael Milken and Lowell Milken together owned, directly and indirectly, approximately 3.6 million shares of our Class B common stock and 0.3 million shares of our Class A common stock and Sandra Milken beneficially owned 0.8 million shares of our Class B common stock. Together, these four stockholders represented approximately 49.6% of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock as of December 31, 2012. As a result, Mr. Ellison, Messrs. Michael and Lowell Milken, and Ms. Milken, if voting together would have significant influence on stockholder vote outcomes, including with respect to: 16 Table of Contents • the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • any determinations with respect to mergers, other business combinations, or changes in control; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; and • our financing activities. Mr. Ellison, Messrs. Michael and Lowell Milken and Ms. Milken could have interests that diverge from those of our other stockholders. This significant influence by a few stockholders could depress the market price of our Class A common stock; deter, delay or prevent a change in control of LeapFrog; or affect other significant corporate transactions that otherwise might be viewed as beneficial for other stockholders. Our stock price has been volatile over the past several years and could decline in the future, resulting in losses for our investors and harming the employee-retention and recruiting value of our equity compensation. All the factors discussed in this section or any other material announcements could affect our stock price. Speculation in the media and analyst communities, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock and market trends unrelated to our stock can cause the price of our stock to change. A significant drop in the price of our stock could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, adversely affecting our business. Our future success depends partly on the continued contribution of our key executives and technical, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel. Part of our compensation package includes stock and/or stock options. To the extent our stock performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees, potentially resulting in lost institutional knowledge and key talent. Changes in compensation packages or costs could impact our profitability and/or our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 