Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements we make. The anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Trammell Crow Company may not be realized. We acquired Trammell Crow Company with the expectation that the acquisition will result in various benefits, including, among others, enhanced revenues, a strengthened market position, cross-selling opportunities, cost savings, certain tax benefits and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether we successfully integrate Trammell Crow Company and achieving expected synergies from combined operations. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results. The success of our business is significantly related to general economic conditions and, accordingly, our business could be harmed in the event of an economic slowdown or recession. Periods of economic slowdown or recession, significantly rising interest rates, a declining employment level, a declining demand for real estate or the public perception that any of these events may occur, can reduce volumes for many of our business lines. These economic conditions could result in a general decline in rents, which in turn would reduce revenue from property management fees and brokerage commissions derived from property sales and leases. In addition, these conditions could lead to a decline in sales prices as well as a decline in funds invested in commercial real estate and related assets. Because our development and investment strategy often entails making relatively modest investments alongside our investor clients, our ability to conduct these activities depends in part on the supply of investment capital for commercial real estate and related assets. An economic downturn or a significant increase in interest rates also may reduce the amount of loan originations and related servicing by our commercial mortgage brokerage business. If our real estate and mortgage brokerage businesses are negatively impacted, it is likely that our other lines of business would also suffer due to the relationship among our various business lines. During an economic downturn, it may also take longer for us to dispose of real estate investments or the selling prices may be lower than originally anticipated. As a result, the carrying value of our real estate investments may become impaired and we could record losses as a result of such impairment or we could experience reduced profitability related to declines in real estate values. Further, as a result of our debt level and the terms of our existing debt instruments, our exposure to adverse general economic conditions is heightened. Our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could harm our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. We are highly leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. Although we paid down our high-interest debt in 2006, we borrowed approximately $2.2 billion under our new senior secured term loan facilities 15 Table of Contents in December 2006 (of which $2.1 billion has been drawn as of December 31, 2006) to finance our acquisition of Trammell Crow Company. For 2007, our estimated interest expense is approximately $140 million. Our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay when due the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. In addition, we may incur additional debt from time to time to finance strategic acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions contained in the documents governing our indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would increase. Our debt could have other important consequences, which include, but are not limited to, the following: • we could be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt; • our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, strategic acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and other general corporate requirements; • our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because the loans under our amended credit agreement governing our senior secured term loan facilities bear interest at floating rates; • our leverage could increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions, placing us at a disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the commercial real estate services industry; • our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness, which, among others, require us to maintain specified financial ratios and limit our ability to incur additional debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could harm our business or prospects; and • from time to time, Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service rate our significant outstanding debt. These ratings may impact our ability to borrow under any new agreements in the future, as well as the interest rates and other terms of any current or future borrowings and could also cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee that we will be able to do. We are able to incur more indebtedness, which may intensify the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness. Our current amended and restated credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and our senior secured term loan facilities permits us, subject to specified conditions, to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness, including up to $600.0 million of additional indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and $400.0 million of additional debt under our senior secured term loan facilities, subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would increase. Subject to the maximum amounts of indebtedness permitted in our bank covenants, we are not restricted in the amount of additional recourse debt we are able to incur in connection with the financing of our development activities and we may in the future incur such indebtedness in order to decrease the amount of equity we invest in these activities. 16 Table of Contents Our debt instruments impose operating and financial restrictions on us, and in the event of a default, all of our borrowings would become immediately due and payable. Our debt instruments, including our amended and restated credit agreement, impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on us and many of our subsidiaries. These restrictions will affect, and in many respects will limit or prohibit, our ability and our restricted subsidiaries’ abilities to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make distributions on capital stock or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • repurchase equity interests; • make investments; • create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us; • transfer or sell assets, including the stock of subsidiaries; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale/leaseback transactions; and • enter into mergers or consolidations. Our amended and restated credit agreement also requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. The restrictions contained in our debt instruments could: • limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and • adversely affect our ability to finance ongoing operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our debt instruments. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured term loan facilities may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under our senior secured term loan facilities also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under the senior secured term loan facilities will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which collateral is described in the immediately following risk factor. If the debt under the senior secured term loan facilities were to be accelerated, we cannot give assurance that this collateral would be sufficient to repay our debt. If we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the senior secured term loans, the lenders under the senior secured term loans could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. In connection with the incurrence of indebtedness under our senior secured term loan facilities and the completion of our acquisition of Trammell Crow Company, the lenders under our senior secured term loan facilities received a pledge of all of our equity interests in our significant domestic subsidiaries, including CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc., CBRE Investors, CBRE Melody, Insignia, CB Richard Ellis Real Estate Services, LLC, Trammell Crow Company and CBRE Real Estate Services, Inc. and 65% of the voting stock of our foreign subsidiaries that is held directly by us or our domestic subsidiaries. Additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our accounts receivable, cash, general intangibles, investment property and future 17 Table of Contents acquired material property. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the senior secured term loan facilities, the lenders under the senior secured term loan facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and liquidate these assets. Our success depends upon the retention of our senior management, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced employees (including those acquired through acquisitions). Our continued success is highly dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees, including Brett White, our Chief Executive Officer and President; and Kenneth J. Kay, our Chief Financial Officer. Messrs. White and Kay currently are not parties to employment agreements with us. We also are highly dependent upon the retention of our property sales and leasing professionals, who generate a significant majority of our revenues, as well as other revenue producing professionals. If any of our key employees leave (including those acquired through acquisitions), or we lose a significant number of key revenue producers, and we are unable to quickly hire and integrate qualified replacements, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. In addition, the growth of our business is largely dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all areas of our business, including brokerage and property management personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain these qualified personnel, our growth may be limited and our business and operating results could suffer. Our growth has benefited significantly from acquisitions, which may not be available in the future. A significant component of our growth has occurred through acquisitions, including our acquisition of Insignia in July 2003 and most recently our acquisition of Trammell Crow Company in December 2006. Any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. However, future acquisitions may not be available at favorable prices or upon advantageous terms and conditions. In addition, acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. Future acquisitions and any necessary related financings also may involve significant transaction-related expenses. For example, through December 31, 2006, we incurred $200.9 million of transaction-related expenditures in connection with our acquisition of Insignia in 2003 and $144.5 million of transaction-related expenditures in connection with our acquisition of Trammell Crow Company in 2006. Transaction-related expenditures included severance costs, lease termination costs, transaction costs, deferred financing costs and merger-related costs, among others. We incurred our final transaction expenditures with respect to the Insignia acquisition in the third quarter of 2004 and expect to incur our final transaction expenditures with respect to the Trammell Crow Company acquisition by the end of 2007. Our international operations subject us to social, political and economic risks of doing business in foreign countries. We conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the United States. During 2006, we generated approximately 37.6% of our revenue from operations outside the United States. Circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions; • currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing; 18 Table of Contents • the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; • the geographic, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable in some geographic regions such as Asia, where many countries have underdeveloped insolvency laws and clients are often slow to pay, and in some European countries, where clients also tend to delay payments; • political instability; and • foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries such as China. We have committed additional resources to expand our worldwide sales and marketing activities, to globalize our service offerings and products in selected markets and to develop local sales and support channels. If we are unable to successfully implement these plans, to maintain adequate long-term strategies that successfully manage the risks associated with our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In addition, our international operations and, specifically, the ability of our non-U.S. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries, including transfers of cash to pay interest and principal on our debt, may be affected by currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other things. Our revenue and earnings may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. Our revenue from non-U.S. operations is denominated primarily in the local currency where the associated revenue was earned. During 2006, approximately 37.6% of our business was transacted in currencies of foreign countries, the majority of which included the Euro, the British Pound Sterling, the Canadian dollar, the Hong Kong dollar, the Japanese yen, the Singapore dollar and the Australian dollar. Thus, we may experience fluctuations in revenues and earnings because of corresponding fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We have made significant acquisitions of non-U.S. companies and we may acquire additional foreign companies in the future. As we increase our foreign operations, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the other currencies in which we may generate earnings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Due to the constantly changing currency exposures to which we are subject and the volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. From time to time, our management uses currency hedging instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts and borrows in foreign currencies. Economic risks associated with these hedging instruments include unexpected fluctuations in inflation rates, which impact cash flow relative to paying down debt, and unexpected changes in the underlying net asset position. If we acquire companies in the future, we may experience integration costs and the acquired businesses may not perform as we expect. We have had, and may continue to experience, difficulties in integrating operations and accounting systems acquired from other companies. These challenges include the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and the potential loss of our key employees or those of the acquired operations. We believe that most acquisitions will initially have an adverse impact on operating and net income. Acquisitions also frequently involve significant costs related to integrating information technology, accounting and management services and rationalizing personnel levels. In connection with the Insignia acquisition we have incurred $38.1 19 Table of Contents million of expenses through December 31, 2006, which are related to the integration of Insignia’s business lines, as well as accounting and other systems, into our own. If we are unable to fully integrate the accounting and other systems of the businesses we acquire, we may not be able to effectively manage them. Moreover, the integration process itself may be disruptive to our business as it requires coordination of geographically diverse organizations and implementation of new accounting and information technology systems. If the properties that we manage fail to perform, then our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. The revenue we generate from our asset services and facilities management lines of business is generally a percentage of aggregate rent collections from properties, although many management agreements provide for a specified minimum management fee. Accordingly, our success partially depends upon the performance of the properties we manage. The performance of these properties will depend upon the following factors, among others, many of which are partially or completely outside of our control: • our ability to attract and retain creditworthy tenants; • the magnitude of defaults by tenants under their respective leases; • our ability to control operating expenses; • governmental regulations, local rent control or stabilization ordinances which are in, or may be put into, effect; • various uninsurable risks; • financial conditions prevailing generally and in the areas in which these properties are located; • the nature and extent of competitive properties; and • the real estate market generally. Our real estate investment and co-investment activities subject us to real estate investment risks which could cause fluctuations in earnings and cash flow. An important part of the strategy for our Global Investment Management business involves investing our capital in certain real estate investments with our clients. As of December 31, 2006, we had committed $67.3 million to fund future co-investments. We expect that approximately $41.4 million of these commitments will be funded during 2007. In addition to required future capital contributions, some of the co-investment entities may request additional capital from us and our subsidiaries holding investments in those assets, and the failure to provide these contributions could have adverse consequences to our interests in these investments. These adverse consequences could include damage to our reputation with our co-investment partners and clients, as well as the necessity of obtaining alternative funding from other sources that may be on disadvantageous terms for us and the other co-investors. Providing co-investment financing is also a very important part of CB Richard Ellis Investors’ investment management business, which would suffer if we were unable to make these investments. Although our debt instruments contain restrictions that limit our ability to provide capital to the entities holding direct or indirect interests in co-investments, we may provide this capital in many instances. Selective investment in real estate projects is an important part of our Development Services business strategy and there is an inherent risk of loss of our investment. As of December 31, 2006, we had 67 consolidated real estate projects with invested equity of $48.2 million and $17.4 million of notes payable on real estate that are recourse to us (beyond being recourse to the single-purpose entity that holds the real estate asset and is the primary obligor on the note payable). The estimated total budgeted project cost of these consolidated real estate projects is $942.9 million. In addition, at December 31, 2006, we were involved as a principal (in most cases, 20 Table of Contents co-investing with one of our clients) in approximately 40 unconsolidated real estate subsidiaries in which we had invested $54.9 million and had committed additional capital to these unconsolidated subsidiaries of $12.8 million. We also guaranteed notes payable of these unconsolidated subsidiaries of $6.1 million. In addition, we have loaned $21.0 million to entities that have underlying investments in real estate. Because the disposition of a single significant investment can impact our financial performance in any period, our real estate investment activities could increase fluctuations in our net earnings and cash flow. In many cases, we have limited control over the timing of the disposition of these investments and the recognition of any related gain or loss. Risks associated with these activities include, but are not limited to, the following: • losses from investments; • difficulties associated with international co-investments described in “—Our international operations subject us to social, political and economic risks of doing business in foreign countries” and “—Our revenue and earnings may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations;” and • potential lack of control over the disposition of any co-investments and the timing of the recognition of gains, losses or potential incentive participation fees. Our joint venture activities involve unique risks that are often outside of our control which, if realized, could harm our business. We have utilized joint ventures for commercial investments and local brokerage and other partnerships both in the United States and internationally, and although we currently have no specific plans to do so, we may acquire minority interests in other joint ventures in the future. In many of these joint ventures, we may not have the right or power to direct the management and policies of the joint ventures and other participants may take action contrary to our instructions or requests and against our policies and objectives. In addition, the other participants may become bankrupt or have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours. If a joint venture participant acts contrary to our interest, it could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have numerous significant competitors and potential future competitors, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do. We compete across a variety of business disciplines within the commercial real estate industry, including investment management, tenant representation, corporate services, construction and development management, property management, agency leasing, valuation and commercial mortgage brokerage. With respect to each of our business disciplines, we cannot give assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively or maintain our current fee arrangements or margin levels or that we will not encounter increased competition. Each of the business disciplines in which we compete is highly competitive on an international, national, regional and local level. Although we are the largest commercial real estate services firm in the world, in terms of 2006 revenue, our relative competitive position varies significantly across product and service categories and geographic areas. Depending on the product or service, we face competition from other real estate service providers, in-house corporate real estate departments, developers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers, and accounting and consulting firms, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, future changes in laws could lead to the entry of other competitors, such as financial institutions. Many of our competitors are local or regional firms. Although substantially smaller than us, some of these competitors are larger on a local or regional basis. We are also subject to competition from other large national and multi-national firms that have similar service competencies to ours. There has been a significant increase in recent years in real estate ownership by REITs, many of which self-manage most of their real estate assets. Continuation of this trend would shrink the asset base available to be managed by third-party service providers, decrease the demand for our services and thereby significantly increase our competition. 21 Table of Contents A significant portion of our operations are concentrated in California and our business could be harmed in the event of a future economic downturn in the California real estate markets. During 2005 and 2006, approximately 16.5% and 13.5%, respectively, of revenue was generated from transactions originating in California. As a result of the geographic concentration in California, any future economic downturn in the California commercial real estate market and in the local economies in San Diego, Los Angeles and Orange County could harm our results of operations. Our results of operations vary significantly among quarters during each calendar year, which makes comparisons of our quarterly results difficult. A significant portion of our revenue is seasonal. Historically, this seasonality has caused our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities to be lower in the first two quarters and higher in the third and fourth quarters of each year. The concentration of earnings and cash flow in the fourth quarter is due to an industry-wide focus on completing transactions toward the fiscal year-end. This has historically resulted in lower profits or a loss in the first and second quarters, with profits growing (or losses decreasing) in each subsequent quarter. This variance among quarters during each calendar year makes comparison between such quarters difficult, but does not generally affect the comparison of the same quarters during different calendar years. We license the use of the Trammell Crow trade name and this license is not exclusive and may be revoked. We have a license agreement with an affiliate of Crow Holdings that allows us to use the name “Trammell Crow” perpetually throughout the world in any business except the residential real estate business, although we can use this name in serving certain mixed-use properties or in providing investment sales brokerage services to buyers and sellers of multi-family residential facilities. This license can be revoked if we fail to maintain certain quality standards or infringe upon certain of the licensor’s intellectual property rights. If we lose the right to use the Trammell Crow name, our Development Services business could suffer significantly. The license agreement permits certain existing uses of the name “Trammell Crow” by affiliates of Crow Holdings. The use of the Trammell Crow name or other similar names by third parties may create confusion or reduce the value associated with the Trammell Crow name. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations applicable to us in our role as a real estate broker, mortgage broker, property/facility manager or developer, we may incur significant financial penalties. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and non-U.S. laws and regulations specific to the services we perform and our business, as well as laws of broader applicability, such as tax, securities and employment laws. Brokerage of real estate sales and leasing transactions, and the provision of property management and valuation services require us to maintain applicable licenses in each U.S. state in which we perform these services. If we fail to maintain our licenses or conduct these activities without a license, or violate any of the regulations covering our licenses, we may be required to pay fines or return commissions received or have our licenses suspended or revoked. In addition, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, CBRE Investors, is subject to laws and regulations as a registered investment advisor and compliance failures or regulatory action could adversely affect our business. As the size and scope of commercial real estate transactions have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with numerous state licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from non-compliance have increased. Furthermore, the laws and regulations applicable to our business, both within and outside of the United States, also may change in ways that increase the costs of compliance. 22 Table of Contents We may have liabilities in connection with real estate brokerage and property management activities. As a licensed real estate broker, we and our licensed employees are subject to regulatory due diligence, disclosure and standard-of-care obligations. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us or our employees to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties that we or they brokered or managed. We could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales, as well as building owners and companies for whom we provide management services, claiming that we did not fulfill our regulatory and fiduciary obligations. In addition, in our property management business, we hire and supervise third-party contractors to provide construction and engineering services for our managed properties. While our role is limited to that of a supervisor, we may be subject to claims for construction defects or other similar actions. Adverse outcomes of real estate brokerage or property management litigation could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be subject to environmental liability as a result of our role as a property or facility manager or developer of real estate. Various laws and regulations impose liability on real property owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at a property. In our role as a property or facility manager or developer, we could be held liable as an operator for such costs. This liability may be imposed without regard to the legality of the original actions and without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. If we fail to disclose environmental issues, we could also be liable to a buyer or lessee of a property. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs incurred in connection with the contamination. If we incur any such liability, our business could suffer significantly. Additionally, liabilities incurred to comply with more stringent future environmental requirements could adversely affect any or all of our lines of business. Our stock price is subject to volatility. Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including quarterly variations in our results and those of our competitors; changes to the competitive landscape; estimates and projections by the investment community; the arrival or departure of key personnel; the introduction of new services by us or our competitors; and acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors. In addition, the stock market, in general, has historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Any of these factors may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company’s common stock drops significantly, stockholders sometimes institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A securities class action lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources from our business. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “should,” “propose,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “will” and similar terms and phrases are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to identify forward-looking statements. These statements relate to analyses and other information based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are made based on our management’s expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and 23 Table of Contents business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. These uncertainties and factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. The following factors are among those, but are not only those, that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements: • integration issues arising out of the acquisition of Trammell Crow Company and other companies we may acquire; • costs relating to the acquisition of Trammell Crow Company and other businesses we may acquire; • future acquisitions may not be available at favorable prices or advantageous terms and conditions; • changes in general economic and business conditions, including interest rates, the cost and availability of capital for investment in real estate, clients’ willingness to make real estate commitments and other factors impacting the value of real estate assets; • our ability to retain major clients and renew related contracts; • the failure of properties managed by us to perform as anticipated; • our ability to compete globally, or in specific geographic markets or business segments that are material to us; • changes in social, political and economic conditions in the foreign countries in which we operate; • foreign currency fluctuations; • an economic downturn in the California real estate market; • significant variability in our results of operations among quarters; • our leverage and debt service obligations and ability to incur additional indebtedness; • our ability to generate a sufficient amount of cash to satisfy working capital requirements and to service our existing and future indebtedness; • the success of our co-investment and joint venture activities; • our ability to attract new user and investor clients; • our ability to manage fluctuations in net earnings and cash flow, which could result from our participation as a principal in real estate investments; • our ability to retain our senior management and attract and retain qualified and experienced employees; • our ability to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to real estate brokerage and mortgage transactions; • the ability of CBRE Investors to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing its role as a registered investment advisor; • our exposure to liabilities in connection with real estate brokerage and property management activities; • the ability of our Global Investment Management segment to realize values in investment funds to offset incentive compensation expense related thereto; • changes in the key components of revenue growth for large commercial real estate services companies, including consolidation of client accounts and increasing levels of institutional ownership of commercial real estate; • reliance of companies on outsourcing for their commercial real estate needs; • our ability to leverage our global services platform to maximize and sustain long-term cash flow; 24 Table of Contents • our ability to maximize cross-selling opportunities; • trends in use of large, full-service real estate providers; • diversification of our client base; • improvements in operating efficiency; • protection of our global brand; • trends in pricing for commercial real estate services; • the ability of CBRE Melody to periodically amend, or replace, on satisfactory terms the agreements for its indebtedness; • the effect of implementation of new tax and accounting rules and standards; and • the other factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including under the heading “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies.” Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. You should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning these and other risks and uncertainties is contained in our other periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 