Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS We have incurred operating losses and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the future. We incurred a net loss available to common stockholders of $35.0 million, or $2.25 per share, for the year ended December 31, 2009, due primarily to goodwill impairment and credit losses and associated costs, including a significant provision for loan losses. Although we have taken steps to reduce our credit exposure, we likely will continue to have a higher than normal level of non-performing assets and charge-offs into 2010, which would continue to adversely impact our overall financial condition and results of operations. We may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. A customer’s failure to repay us is usually preceded by missed monthly payments. In some instances, however, a customer may declare bankruptcy prior to missing payments, and, following a borrower filing bankruptcy, a lender’s recovery of the 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements credit extended is often limited. Since our loans are secured by collateral, we may attempt to seize the collateral when and if customers default on their loans. However, the value of the collateral may not equal the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy in our market area generally and among our customers specifically can be precursors of future charge-offs and may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses. Higher charge-off rates and an increase in our allowance for loan and lease losses may hurt our overall financial performance if we are unable to increase revenue to compensate for these losses and may also increase our cost of funds. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expenses, which represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance for loan and lease losses and our methodology for calculating the allowance are fully described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements under “Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses” on page 93, and in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Statement of Financial Condition—Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses” section on pages 61 through 67. In general, an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is established to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge offs, based on judgments that are different than those of management. As we are consistently adjusting our loan portfolio and underwriting standards to reflect current market conditions, we can provide no assurance that our methodology will not change, which could result in a charge to earnings. We continually reassess the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the sufficiency of our allowance for loan and lease losses as part of FSGBank’s credit functions. Our allowance for loan and lease losses increased from 1.72% of total loans at December 31, 2008 to 2.78% at December 31, 2009. We recorded a provision for loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2009 of approximately $25.3 million, which was significantly higher than in previous periods. We charged-off approximately $16.2 million in loans, net of recoveries, during the year ended December 31, 2009, which was also significantly higher than in previous periods. We will likely experience additional classified loans and non-performing assets in the foreseeable future, as well as related increases in loan charge-offs, as the deterioration in the credit and real estate markets causes borrowers to default. Further, the value of the collateral underlying a given loan, and the realizable value of such collateral in a foreclosure sale, likely will be negatively affected by the current downturn in the real estate market, and therefore may result in an inability to realize a full recovery in the event that a borrower defaults on a loan. Any additional non-performing assets, loan charge-offs, increases in the provision for loan losses or the continuation of aggressive charge-off policies or any inability by us to realize the full value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default, will negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the price of our securities. Further, there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31, 2009 will be sufficient to cover future credit losses. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development, and construction loans for builders and developers, and as of December 31, 2009, we had $153.2 million in such loans outstanding, representing 113.9% of FSGBank’s total risk-based capital. These land acquisition and development, and construction loans are more risky than other types of loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting and project risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Approximately $153.1 million of this portfolio consists of loans for which the related property is neither pre-sold nor pre-leased, which creates additional market risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk that borrowers cannot obtain affordable financing, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. There can be no assurance that losses in our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Given the current environment, the non-performing loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio are likely to increase during 2010, and these non-performing loans could result in a material level of charge-offs, which will negatively impact our capital and earnings. If the value of real estate in our core markets were to decline further, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of borrowers, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2009, approximately 76.9% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower but may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If the value of real estate in our core markets were to decline further, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. As a result, if we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. The amount of our OREO may increase significantly, resulting in additional losses, and costs and expenses that will negatively affect our operations. At December 31, 2008, we had a total of $7.1 million of OREO, and at December 31, 2009, we had a total of $16.0 million of OREO, reflecting a $8.9 million increase over the past twelve months. This increase in OREO is due, among other things, to the continued deterioration of the residential real estate market and the tightening of the credit market. As the amount of OREO increases, our losses, and the costs and expenses to maintain the real estate likewise increase. Due to the on-going economic downturn, the amount of OREO may continue to increase in the coming months. Any additional increase in losses, and maintenance costs and expenses due to OREO may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market of reduced real estate values and excess inventory, which may make the disposition of OREO properties more difficult, increase maintenance costs and expenses, and may reduce our ultimate realization from any OREO sales. We are seeking additional senior officers, but our ability to attract and retain the best key employees may be limited by the need for regulatory non-objection and the restrictions that we must place on the compensation of those employees. We are currently seeking to externally hire or otherwise reassign qualified individuals to fill senior positions in credit administration and commercial lending and to fill our vacant Chief Operating Officer position. We are currently required to notify the OCC ninety days in advance of employing any senior executive officer or changing the responsibilities of a senior executive officer. This requirement could prevent us from hiring the 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements individuals of our choosing, could discourage potential applicants, or otherwise delay our ability to fill these positions. We are also generally prohibited from entering into, amending, or renewing any agreement that provides for golden parachute payments to an institution-affiliated party or from making such golden parachute payments, absent approval from the OCC and written concurrence of the FDIC. In addition, as a participant in the CPP, we are subject to specified limits on the compensation we can pay to certain senior executive officers. The limitations, which include restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to First Security’s senior executive officers, a prohibition on any “golden parachute” payments and a “clawback” of any bonus that was based on materially inaccurate financial data or other performance metric, could limit our ability to attract and retain the best executive officers because other competing employers may not be subject to these limitations. If this were to occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make a loan on or secured by real property or how to value such loan in the future may not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral that we can realize. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made, and, as real estate values in our market area have experienced changes in value in relatively short periods of time, this estimate might not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral after the loan has been closed. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property. The valuation of the property may negatively impact the continuing value of such loan and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We will realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of non-performing assets are less than the fair value of such assets. We have announced a strategy to manage our non-performing assets aggressively, a portion of which may not be currently identified. Non-performing assets are recorded on our financial statements at fair value, as required under GAAP, unless these assets have been specifically identified for liquidation, in which case they are recorded at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. In current market conditions, we are likely to realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of non-performing assets are less than the recorded fair value of such assets. Negative publicity about financial institutions, generally, or about First Security or FSGBank, specifically, could damage First Security’s reputation and adversely impact its liquidity, business operations or financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from the actual or alleged conduct of financial institutions, generally, or First Security or FSGBank, specifically, in any number of activities, including leasing and lending practices, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action, any of which could negatively affect our liquidity, business operations or financial results. If we are unable to increase our share of deposits in our market, we may need to accept out-of-market brokered deposits, the costs of which may be higher than expected, and which may not be available to us. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase our market share of deposits in our highly competitive service area. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to accept increased amounts of out of market brokered deposits. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $339.8 million in out of market deposits, including brokered certificates of deposit, brokered money market accounts and CDARS®, which 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements represented approximately 28.7% of our total deposits. The cost of out of market and brokered deposits may exceed the cost of deposits in our local market. In addition, the cost of out of market brokered deposits can be volatile, and if we are unable to access these markets or if our costs related to out of market brokered deposits increases, our liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. Finally, should we become subject to a formal regulatory order requiring specific capital levels, we would be designated as adequately capitalized and would be barred from accepting new or renewing existing brokered deposits without a regulatory waiver, which may not be obtained and could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Increases in our expenses and other costs, including those related to centralizing our credit functions, could adversely affect our financial results. Our expenses and other costs, such as operating expenses and hiring new employees to enhance our credit and underwriting administration, directly affect our earnings results. In light of the extremely competitive environment in which we operate, and because the size and scale of many of our competitors provides them with increased operational efficiencies, it is important that we are able to successfully manage such expenses. We are aggressively managing our expenses in the current economic environment, but as our business develops, changes or expands, and as we hire additional personnel, additional expenses can arise. Other factors that can affect the amount of our expenses include legal and administrative cases and proceedings, which can be expensive to pursue or defend. In addition, changes in accounting policies can significantly affect how we calculate expenses and earnings. Changes in the interest rate environment could reduce our net interest income, which could reduce our profitability. As a financial institution, our earnings significantly depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as investment securities and loans, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes in the Federal Reserve Board’s fiscal and monetary policies, affects us more than non-financial institutions and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and total income. Our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. As a result, an increase or decrease in market interest rates could have material adverse effects on our net interest margin and results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. In addition, any significant increase in prevailing interest rates could adversely affect our mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could cause customers to request fewer refinancings and purchase money mortgage originations. Adverse market conditions, future losses or increased capital requirements may require us to raise additional capital in the future to support our operations, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or it could be dilutive to our existing stockholders, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations, which may require us to maintain capital in excess of published regulatory standards for a “well-capitalized” institution. We currently anticipate the OCC will require FSGBank to maintain a tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 9.0% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12.0%. We anticipate that our capital resources will be sufficient to satisfy these capital requirements for the foreseeable future. However, adverse market conditions in our area could require us to raise additional capital in the future. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, in the future, we may need to raise additional capital to comply with commitments made to our regulators or a new regulatory capital framework such as a new proposal for risk-based capital standards developed by federal or international regulatory groups. As a result of the financial crisis that has adversely affected global credit markets and increases in credit, liquidity, interest rate and other risks, in September 2009, the Treasury issued principles for stronger capital and liquidity standards for banking firms, which included recommendations for higher capital standards for all banking organizations to be implemented as part of a broader reconsideration of international risk-based capital standards developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“Basel II”). Any new capital framework is likely to affect the cost and availability of different types of credit. U.S. banking organizations are likely to be required to hold higher levels of capital and could incur increased compliance costs; it is unclear, at this time, if similar increases in capital standards will be incorporated into a revised Basel II proposal that would be adopted by international financial institutions. Any of these developments, including increased capital requirements, could require us to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. If we need to raise additional capital, there is no guarantee that we will be able to borrow funds or successfully raise capital at all or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not dilutive to existing stockholders. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to operate or expand our business could be materially impaired. Further, should FSGBank come under a regulatory directive to maintain elevated capital levels or otherwise fail to maintain sufficient capital to meet the regulatory standards for a “well-capitalized” institution, it could prohibit us from directly or indirectly accepting, renewing or rolling over any brokered deposits, absent applying for and receiving a waiver from the FDIC, which could adversely affect FSGBank’s liquidity and/or operating results. We face strong competition from larger, more established competitors that may inhibit our ability to compete and expose us to greater lending risks. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Our ability to diversify our economic risks is limited by our own local markets and economies. We lend primarily to individuals and to small to medium-sized businesses, which may expose us to greater lending risks than those of banks lending to larger, better capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. As an example, our market area in northern Georgia is highly dependent on the home furnishings and carpet industry centered near Dalton, Georgia. Because of the downturn in residential construction, this industry has suffered a business decline, which has adversely affected the performance of our operations in Dalton and surrounding areas. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary market area with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our agreement with the Treasury under the CPP is subject to unilateral change by the Treasury, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Under the CPP, the Treasury may unilaterally amend the terms of its agreement with us in order to comply with any changes in federal law. We cannot predict the effects of any of these changes and of the associated amendments. It is possible, however, that any such amendment could have a material impact on us or our operations. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations or similar matters arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, premiums for insurance covering the financial and banking sectors are rising. We may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms or at historic rates, if at all. Changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, the status of examinations by tax authorities and newly enacted statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to various taxing jurisdictions where we conduct business. We assess the appropriate tax treatment of transactions and filing positions after considering statutes, regulations, judicial precedent and other pertinent information and maintain tax accruals consistent with our evaluation. This evaluation incorporates assumptions and estimates that involve a high degree of judgment and subjectivity. Changes in the results of these evaluations could have a material impact on our operating results. Currently, we expect to fully realize our deferred tax assets. However, continued losses may require a partial or full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Such a change could have a material impact on our operating results. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances are discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit the use of properties that we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Our loan policies require certain due diligence of high risk industries and properties with the intention of lowering our risk of a non-performing loan and/or foreclosed property. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements RISKS RELATED TO RECENT MARKET, LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY EVENTS We may become subject to supervisory actions and/or enhanced regulation that could have an additional material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock. In addition, addressing regulatory concerns in this market environment will require significant time and attention from our management team, which may increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes and adversely affect our profitability in the near-term. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, the Federal Reserve (for bank holding companies), the OCC (for national banks) and, separately, the FDIC (as the insurer of bank deposits), have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions on our part if they determine that we have insufficient capital or are otherwise operating in a manner that may be deemed to be inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices. Under this authority, our bank regulators can require us to enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which we would be required to take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns and to refrain from taking certain actions. For additional information relating to the extensive regulation, supervision and legislation that govern most aspects of our operations and limit the businesses in which we engage, please see “Supervision and Regulation” on page 12. In light of declining asset quality and earnings, and the risks associated with liquidity and concentrations of credit, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we committed to the OCC to undertake certain actions to improve FSGBank’s liquidity and funds management, capital adequacy, and credit risk management. We are currently required to notify the OCC ninety days in advance of adding or replacing a member of the board of directors, employing any senior executive officer, or changing the responsibilities of any senior executive officer so that the person would assume a different executive position, and are generally prohibited from entering into, amending, or renewing any agreement that provides for golden parachute payments to an institution-affiliated party or from making such golden parachute payments, absent approval from the OCC and written concurrence of the FDIC. The adoption and implementation of these plans and policies will require significant time and attention from our management team, which may increase our costs, including additional personnel costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes and adversely affect our profitability in the near-term. No assurances can be given that these actions will be sufficient to satisfy the OCC, and we may make additional commitments to the OCC in the future. We believe it is likely that the OCC will enter into some form of enforcement action with FSGBank, and we anticipate that FSGBank will be required to maintain a tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 9.0% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12.0%. Any enforcement action is likely to formalize these commitments and may impose additional obligations and limitations on FSGBank. If our regulators were to take such an enforcement action, then we could, among other things, become subject to significant restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, we could be required to raise additional capital, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, and/or hire additional personnel to strengthen our credit and underwriting functions. Further, should FSGBank come under a regulatory directive to maintain elevated capital levels or otherwise fail to maintain sufficient capital to meet the regulatory standards for a “well-capitalized” institution, it could prohibit us from directly or indirectly accepting, renewing or rolling over any brokered deposits, absent applying for and receiving a waiver from the FDIC, which could adversely affect FSGBank’s liquidity and/or operating results. The terms of any such supervisory action that goes beyond the steps we have already taken could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock. A continuation of the current economic downturn in the housing market and the homebuilding industry and in our markets generally could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our long-term success depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary market areas. If the communities in which FSGBank operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. The unpredictable economic conditions we have faced over the last 24 months have had an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and our financial performance. Economic recession over a prolonged period or other economic problems in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. Future adverse changes in the economies in our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, the banking industry in Tennessee and Georgia is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. Since the third quarter of 2007, the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. As a result, there has been substantial concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to subprime mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. As of December 31, 2009, our non-performing assets had increased to $65.4 million, or 4.83% of our total assets, as compared to $27.3, or 2.14% as of December 31, 2008. Furthermore, the housing and the residential mortgage markets continue to experience a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. The homebuilding and residential mortgage industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and a decrease in the absorption of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we are facing increased delinquencies and non-performing assets as these builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not know when the housing market will improve, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, our non-performing assets may continue to increase and we may need to take additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. The results of our stress test may be incorrect and may not accurately predict the impact on our financial condition if the economy were to continue to deteriorate. Bank regulatory authorities, in connection with the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, or “SCAP,” recently administered a stress or SCAP test to the nation’s 19 largest banks. The SCAP test is based on a 2-year cumulative loan loss assumption that represents two scenarios, a “baseline” scenario that assumed a consensus forecast for certain economic variables and a “more adverse” than expected scenario to project a more significant downturn. These scenarios are not forecasts or projections of expected loan losses. While bank regulatory authorities have not administered a SCAP test to our loan portfolio (both loans held for investment and loans held for sale), we, in conjunction with a third-party consultant, have completed a stress test of our loan portfolio to determine the potential effects on our capital as a result of the persistence of the economic factors identified in the SCAP test and to assess the potential exposure for increased non-performing assets. The analysis was designed to approximate the SCAP test, with specific adjustments based on more current economic data reflective of the market areas in which our loans are located. In December 2009, our consultant reported that First Security would need to raise approximately $200 thousand to satisfy current regulatory well capitalized standards at December 31, 2010 assuming First Security experienced credit losses projected by the “more adverse” scenario of the stress test. The review also found we would need to raise approximately $31.4 million to satisfy these standards if it repaid all TARP funds. In the event that the OCC requires FSGBank to maintain a tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 9.0% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12.0%, we would need to raise approximately $22.8 million to satisfy these standards, assuming that TARP funds are not repaid. The results of these stress tests involve many assumptions about the economy and future loan losses and default rates, and may not accurately reflect the impact on our financial condition if the economy does not 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements improve or continues to deteriorate. While we believe that appropriate assumptions have been applied in performing the stress test, these assumptions may prove to be incorrect. In addition, the results of our stress test may not be comparable to the results of stress tests performed and publicly released by Treasury, and the results of this test may not be the same as if the test had been performed by Treasury. Moreover, the results of the stress test may not accurately reflect the impact on us if economic conditions are materially different than our assumptions. Any continued deterioration of the economy could result in credit losses significantly higher than those predicted by our internal stress test, which in turn would adversely affect our financial condition and capital levels. Negative developments in the financial industry, and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments during 2008 in the global credit and derivative markets resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2010. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. Global securities markets, and bank holding company stock prices in particular, have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. If these negative trends continue, our business operations and financial results may be negatively affected. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums or remit special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. A downgrade in our regulatory condition, along with our current level of brokered deposits, could cause our assessment to materially increase. In addition, market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result, the entire industry may be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. It is possible that the FDIC may impose additional special assessments in the future as part of its restoration plan. Future legislation could harm our competitive position. Congress is considering additional proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. Such legislation may change existing banking statutes and regulations, as well as our current operating environment significantly. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand our permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK The trading volume of our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Although our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the trading volume of our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. For the public trading market for our common stock to have the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness requires the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall more than would otherwise be expected if the trading volume of our common stock were commensurate with the trading volumes of the common stock of other financial services companies. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Tennessee law and our charter limit the ability of others to acquire us. Various anti-takeover protections for Tennessee corporations are set forth in the Tennessee Business Corporation Act, the Business Combination Act, the Control Share Acquisition Act, the Greenmail Act and the Investor Protection Act. Because our common stock is registered with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Business Combination Act automatically applies to us unless our stockholders adopt a charter or bylaw amendment which expressly excludes us from the anti-takeover provisions of the Business Combination Act two years prior to a proposed takeover. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of recommending such charter or bylaw amendment. These statutes have the general effect of discouraging, or rendering more difficult, unfriendly takeover or acquisition attempts. Such provisions could be beneficial to current management in an unfriendly takeover attempt but could have an adverse effect on stockholders who might wish to participate in such a transaction. Our future operating results may be below securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. We may be unable to generate significant revenues or grow at the rate expected by securities analysts or investors. In addition, our costs may be higher than we, securities analysts or investors expect. If we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indication of our future performance. In some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock will likely decline. We have elected to defer the dividend payment on our Series A Preferred Stock for the first quarter of 2010; as a result, we are unable to pay dividends on our common stock until we pay all dividends in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock. On January 27, 2010, our Board of Directors elected to suspend the dividend on our common stock and elected to defer the dividend payment on our Series A Preferred Stock for the first quarter of 2010. We may not pay dividends on common stock unless all dividends have been paid on the securities issued to the Treasury under the CPP; having deferred the first quarter 2010 dividend payment, we are prohibited on paying any future dividends on our common stock until all dividends payable to the Treasury under the CPP have been paid in full. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, regulatory restrictions, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when, and if declared by our Board of Directors out of funds legally available for that purpose. As part of our consideration to pay future cash dividends, we intend to retain adequate funds from future earnings to support the development and growth of our business. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by federal policies and regulations. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. Further, our principal sources of funds to pay dividends are cash dividends and management fees that we receive from FSGBank. The CPP also restricts our ability to increase the amount of quarterly dividends on common stock above $0.05 per share, which potentially limits your opportunity for gain on your investment. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Series A Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury impacts net income available to our common stockholders and our earnings per share. On January 9, 2009, we issued senior preferred stock (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) to the Treasury in an aggregate amount of $33 million, along with a warrant to purchase 823,627 shares of common stock (the “Warrant”). As long as shares of our Series A Preferred Stock issued under the CPP are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock have been paid in full. Additionally, for so long as the Treasury owns shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, we are not permitted to pay cash dividends in excess of $0.05 per share per quarter on our common stock for three years without the Treasury’s consent. The dividends declared on shares of our Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, issuance of the Warrant, in conjunction with the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The shares of First Security’s Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up. We can provide no assurances as to when the Series A Preferred Stock can be redeemed and the Warrant can be repurchased. Subject to consultation with our banking regulators, we intend to repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant issued to the Treasury when we believe the credit metrics in our loan portfolio have improved for the long-term and the overall economy has rebounded. However, there can be no assurance when the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant can be repurchased, if at all. Until such time as the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant are repurchased, we will remain subject to the terms and conditions of those instruments, which, among other things, require us to obtain regulatory approval to repurchase or redeem common stock or our other preferred stock or increase the dividends on our common stock over $0.05 per share, except in limited circumstances. Further, our continued participation in the CPP subjects us to increased regulatory and legislative oversight, including with respect to executive compensation. These new oversight and legal requirements under the CPP, as well as any other requirement that the Treasury could adopt in the future, may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry as a whole, and particularly on CPP participants such as ourselves. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have rights that are senior to those of our common stockholders. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock that we have issued to the Treasury is senior to our shares of common stock, and holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of our common stock. The restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends to common stockholders are discussed immediately above. In addition, we and our subsidiaries may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of our common stock unless we have paid in full all accrued dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for all prior dividend periods, other than in certain circumstances. Furthermore, the Series A Preferred Stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of our common stock in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our Board of Directors. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), we must increase the authorized number of directors then constituting our Board of Directors by two. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with the same voting rights, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of the Board of Directors at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for this purpose) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Except in connection with the election of directors to our Board of Directors as discussed immediately above and as otherwise required by law, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. In addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or our amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock that adversely affects the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock; or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding or are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity other than us and have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable than those of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no written comments from the Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Act which remain unresolved. 