Item 1A. Risk factors Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses and we expect to continue to incur losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have invested and will invest a significant portion of our time and resources in developing and testing our product candidates. As a result of our significant research and development, clinical development, regulatory compliance and general and administrative expenses, we expect to incur losses for at least the next few years as we continue to incur significant expenses for clinical trials. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $64.4 million. We have initiated pivotal clinical studies for the use of GEM OS1 for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions in the United States, Canada and the EU. In January 2008, we sold to Luitpold our remaining orofacial therapeutic business, whereas Luitpold is granted the rights to the downstream formulation, fill, finish manufacturing and kitting of GEM 21S. This transaction will enable us to focus our expertise and our future development efforts on our orthopedic, spine and sports medicine product candidates. This transaction leaves us without an FDA approved product currently in commercialization. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. Our product candidates are in various stages of development and may not be developed or commercialized successfully. Our product candidates are based on technologies that often times have not been used previously in the manner and combination we propose and must compete with more established treatments currently accepted as the standards of care. Market acceptance of our products will largely depend on our ability to demonstrate their relative safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and ease of use. We are subject to the risk that: • the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority finds some or all of our product candidates ineffective or unsafe; • we do not receive necessary regulatory approvals; • we are unable to get some or all of our product candidates to market in a timely manner; • we are not able to produce our product candidates in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; and • the patient and physician community does not accept our products candidates. In addition, our product development programs may be curtailed, redirected, eliminated or delayed at any time for many reasons, including: • adverse or ambiguous results; • undesirable side effects that delay or extend the trials; • inability to locate, recruit, qualify and retain a sufficient number of clinical investigators or patients for our trials; • regulatory delays or other regulatory actions; • failure to satisfy one or more requirements or restrictions imposed by the FDA as a basis for approving the initiation of a clinical study; • difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of the particular product candidate or any other components needed for our pre-clinical testing or clinical trials; 34 Table of Contents • difficulties in obtaining the necessary regulatory support from our raw materials suppliers to enable us to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market our product or product candidates; or • re-evaluation of our clinical development strategy. We cannot predict whether we will develop and commercialize successfully any of our product candidates. If we fail to do so, we will not be able to generate substantial revenue. Our current product candidates are all based on the same protein, rhPDGF. If one of them reveals safety or fundamental efficacy issues in clinical trials, it may impact the development path for all our other current product candidates. The development of each of our GEM product candidates is based on our understanding of how the protein rhPDGF contributes to the repair of bone and soft tissue. Soft tissue includes muscles, tendons and ligaments that connect, support or surround the bones and organs of the body. While there are important differences in each product candidate in terms of its purpose, each product candidate focuses on accelerating the repair of musculoskeletal tissue and relies on the ability of rhPDGF to stimulate the body’s natural healing processes. Since we are developing the GEM OS product candidates in parallel, we expect that the results of the individual product trials will assist us in the development of all of the GEM OS product candidates. If one product candidate has negative clinical trial results or is shown to be ineffective, it may impact the development path or future development of the other product candidates. For example, the components in GEM 21S that stimulate bone growth in periodontal indications may not stimulate bone growth in broad orthopedic appli cations. If we find that one product candidate is unsafe, it may impact the development of our other product candidates in clinical trials. If we fail to meet our obligations under our existing license agreements or fail to enter into new license agreements, our business may be materially adversely impacted. Our rights to the development, use and marketing of our product candidates are governed by a series of licensing agreements, including those with Harvard and ZymoGenetics. These license agreements provide us with rights to certain intellectual property created by the licensor, which allow us to develop and commercialize our product and product candidates. As part of these agreements, we are required to make payments to the licensors and comply with other obligations as we progress through product development and commercialization. If we fail to make these payments or satisfy other obligations for any reason, these licenses could be terminated by the licensors, thereby limiting our ability to market our product or limiting our ability to maintain exclusivity with respect to our product or product candidates. Furthermore, if a dispute arises regarding our obligations under these agreements, our business may be materially adversely impacted. Our licensors or others may dispute the scope of our rights under any of these licenses. Additionally, the licensors under these licenses might breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to prevent infringement of the licensed patents by third parties. Loss of any of these licenses for any reason could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. We may need additional licenses to intellectual property owned by third parties in order to commercialize new products. If we cannot obtain these additional licenses, we may not be able to develop or commercialize these future products. Our rights to use technologies licensed to us by third parties are not entirely within our control, and we may not be able to produce our product and product candidates without these technologies. We depend upon a limited number of specialty suppliers of raw materials. Our ability to manufacture our product candidates depends on a limited number of specialty suppliers of raw materials. In particular, we depend upon Novartis to supply us with sufficient quantities of rhPDGF for clinical development activities. We are obligated to purchase minimum specified quantities of rhPDGF. Our agreement with Novartis is cancelable under certain circumstances. 35 Table of Contents We have established certain relationships with β-TCP suppliers and are continuing to evaluate β-TCP products and other matrices from these potential suppliers for use in orthopedic applications. There is a risk that we will not be able to secure adequate sources of rhPDGF or β-TCP to meet our clinical needs for our orthopedic applications. The failure of a supplier to continue to provide us with these materials at a price or quality acceptable to us, or at all, would impede our ability to manufacture our product candidates. Moreover, our failure to maintain strategic reserve supplies of each significant single-sourced material used to manufacture product candidates that we develop may negatively impact our development and commercialization activities. If our specialty suppliers cannot perform as agreed, we may not be able to replace them in a timely manner or on terms that are acceptable to us and the production of our product candidates would be interrupted, resulting in delays in clinical trials and additional costs. We will be required to obtain regulatory clearance from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities before we can use different suppliers or components. If we have to switch to replacement suppliers, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of our prod uct candidates could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay completion of our clinical trials, regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of any approved products. We and our suppliers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to matters, including safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, advertising and promotional materials relating to medical devices are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission in specific instances. We and our suppliers may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements, our failure or the failure of our manufacturers to comply with these requirements, or the adoption of new requirements could delay the development of our product candidates or regulatory approval of our product candidates or successful commercialization of any approved products, resulting in additional losses to us. We may be unable to establish or enter into the necessary business relationships and agreements with other companies who provide a component critical to the development and commercialization of our product candidates, including intellectual property, raw materials, manufacturing assistance, regulatory assistance and other assistance necessary to develop and market our product candidates successfully. Our product development programs and potential commercialization of our product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. We rely heavily upon arrangements with third-parties for the raw materials and intellectual property used in the development of our product candidates. These third parties also provide us with assistance in manufacturing our product candidates and seeking regulatory approvals. Our strategy includes continuing to develop business relationships with other biotechnology companies to assist us in potentially commercializing our product candidates. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate business relationships, which may be complex and time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be able to enter into any such business relationships or agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If that were to happen, we may have to curtail the development or delay the commercialization o f our product candidates. At this point in time, we do not have an alternative source of rhPDGF. If we are not able to obtain rhPDGF from Novartis, we will not be able to meet our supply obligations to Luitpold for rhPDGF after our current inventory is depleted. In view of the FDA’s removal of the restriction on our use of rhPDGF lots manufactured by Novartis after September 2002, we have modified our purchasing plans for rhPDGF. Based on Luitpold’s current forecasts for its rhPDGF needs and our planned clinical study programs for our product candidates and our anticipated pre-clinical studies, the rhPDGF in our inventory should meet our needs for at least the next year. Under the terms of our supply agreement, Novartis is required to support our efforts to establish our production of rhPDGF should it terminate the agreement; however, establishing a manufacturing process to replace Novartis’ will take multiple years and a significant financial investment to complet e, if at all, and there is no 36 Table of Contents assurance we would be successful in that effort. We also may not be able to manufacture any product candidates that contain rhPDGF, including GEM OS1 and GEM OS2, after our current inventory is depleted. We have limited manufacturing capabilities and manufacturing personnel, and if our manufacturing facilities are unable to provide an adequate supply of products, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We are moving forward with plans to build a new manufacturing facility in the same complex as our headquarters in Franklin, Tennessee. We intend to move certain steps of the later stages of the manufacturing process of our orthopedic and sports medicine product candidates into that facility, including final formulation, filling the vials and cups that will be packaged in the finished kits and assembling the kits. Currently we are utilizing at least four contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for our GEM OS1 clinical study kits, and we are using two contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for our GEM OS2 clinical study kits. If there were a disruption to our manufacturing facility or those of our contract manufacturers, we would have no other means of manufacturing our product candidates until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at our facility or develop alternative manufacturing facilities. If we were unable to produce sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in our current and planned clinical trials, or if our manufacturing process yields substandard products, our development and commercialization efforts could be delayed. We have limited resources, facilities and experience to commercially manufacture our product candidates. In order to produce our product candidates in the quantities that we anticipate will be required to meet future market demand we will need to complete qualification of the commercial scale production process at our contract facilities and at our in-house facility. There are technical challenges to developing and qualifying commercial-scale manufacturing operations. Further, building a new facility will require the investment of substantial additional funds as well as hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. We may not successfully complete the process qualification activities in a timely manner. This could strain our existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Furthermore, if we fail to manage our growth effectively we may not be able to produce our product candida tes in sufficient quantities to meet the future requirements for the product. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of any product candidate, our revenues, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. In addition, if the in-house production process is not efficient or produces products that do not meet quality and other standards, our future gross margins may decline. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. We do not have a dedicated sales force and have limited experience in the sales, marketing and distribution of drug-device combination products or drug products. In order to commercialize our product candidates, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with a third party to perform these functions. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. As a result of any arrangements we may enter into with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues could be lower than if we directly marketed and sold any product candidate that we may develop. Furthermore, as a result of any marketing and sales arrangements we may enter into with other companies, any revenues received will depend on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. Some of our future distributors may have products or product candidates that compete with ours, and they may have an incentive not to devote sufficient efforts to marketing our products. If our relationships with future distributors do not progress as anticipated, or if their sales and marketing strategies fail to generate sales of our products in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. 37 Table of Contents The orthopedic product industries are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are safer and more effective than any products that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products in the field of biologics. We face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions in the United States and abroad. Many of our principal competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with, or mergers with or acquisitions by, large and established companies or through the development of novel products and technologies. Our competitors may: • develop and patent processes or products earlier than us; • obtain regulatory approvals for competing products more rapidly than us; or • develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or product and product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. The industry in which we operate has undergone, and we expect it to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made. Our competitors may develop and commercialize medical devices, drug-device combination products, biologic products or pharmaceutical products that are safer or more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. For example, we are aware of companies that are developing various other technologies for treating orthopedic injuries and disease, which could make our product candidates obsolete. We also compete with our competitors in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, in establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. If our product and product candidates do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payers, patients and the medical community. Market acceptance will depend on our ability to demonstrate the benefits of our approved products in terms of safety, efficacy, convenience, ease of administration and cost effectiveness. In addition, we believe market acceptance depends on the effectiveness of our marketing strategy, the pricing of our approved products and the reimbursement policies of government and third party payers. Physicians may not prescribe our approved products for a variety of reasons and patients may determine for any reason that our product is not useful to them. If any of our approved products fails to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. The loss of our key management and scientific personnel may hinder our ability to execute our business plan. As a small company with 87 employees as of March 3, 2008, our success depends on the continuing contributions of our management team and scientific personnel and on maintaining relationships with the network of medical and academic centers in the United States that conduct our clinical trials. We depend on the services of our key scientific employees and the principal members of our management staff, including Samuel Lynch, Larry Bullock, Charles Hart and Steven Hirsch. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We face intense competition in our hiring efforts from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from universities and nonprofit research organizations, and we may have to pay higher salaries 38 Table of Contents to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of one or more of these individuals, or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could substantially impair our ability to implement our business plan. We face an inherent risk of liability in the event that the use or misuse of our product candidates results in personal injury or death. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products may expose us to product liability claims which could result in financial losses. Our clinical and commercial product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources and adversely impact or eliminate the prospects for commercialization of the product candidate, or sale of the product, which is the subject of any such claim. Off-label use of our product may occur. While we do not promote any off-label use, off-label uses of products are common and the FDA does not regulate a physician’s choice of treatment. Off-label use or misuse of any pro duct for which we obtain approval may subject us to additional liability. If we are sued in a product liability action, we could be forced to pay substantial damages and the attention of our management team may be diverted from operating our business. We currently manufacture investigational drug-device combination product candidates that are implanted in patients during surgery. In addition, we are developing additional similar products for additional surgical indications. As a result, we may be subject to a product liability lawsuit. In particular, the market for spine products has a history of product liability litigation. Under past agreements with our former distributor for GEM 21S and agreements with certain suppliers, we indemnify these parties from product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future. In addition, we would have to pay any amount awarded by a court in excess of policy limits. We maintain product liability insurance in the annual aggregate amount of up to $20 million, although our insurance policies have various exclusions. Thus, we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no insurance coverage, in which case we may have to pay the entire amount of any award. Even in the absence of a claim, our insurance rates may rise in the future to a point where we may decide not to carry this insurance. A meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim would be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from our core business. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we cannot protect our intellectual property, our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates may be severely limited. Our success will depend in part on our ability and on the ability of Harvard and ZymoGenetics to maintain and enforce patent protection for the therapeutic uses of rhPDGF. Without patent protection, other companies could offer substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizable discovery, development and licensing costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of approved products would then be diminished. We have relied on the intellectual property of ZymoGenetics and the intellectual property co-owned by us and Harvard to provide freedom to operate and to exclude others from developing rhPDGF for the treatment of general bone defects and bone defects associated with advanced periodontal disease, fractures and other indications. One of our licensed issued U.S. patents covering our product candidates may have expired in July 2006. We have two additional U.S. patents covering 39 Table of Contents other unique aspects of our product candidates. We do not believe that the expiration of this patent would significantly affect our intellectual property position. The license agreement with Harvard provides exclusivity to the designated patents, which we co-own with Harvard. However, if any patent or other rights of ZymoGenetics or any patent or other rights co-owned by us and Harvard are challenged, a court may determine that the patents are invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity or enforceability of a patent is upheld by a court, a court may not prevent alleged infringement on the grounds that the activity is not covered by the patent claims. Any litigation, whether to enforce our rights to use our or our licensors’ patents or to defend against allegations that we infringe third-party rights, would be costly and time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. Neither we nor our licensors may be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. In addition, our patent applications, patents and our licensors’ patents may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions typically are not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases ever, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for prote ction of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach. In addition, we cannot ensure that these agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to the information, which may not be resolved in our favor. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements, or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could adversely affect us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. Our success also depends on our ability to operate and commercialize our product candidates without infringing the patents or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that we or our licensors or suppliers are infringing their patents or are misappropriating their proprietary information. In the event of a successful claim against us or our licensors or suppliers for infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may be required to, among other things: • pay substantial damages; • stop using our technologies; • stop certain research and development efforts; • develop non-infringing products or methods; or • obtain one or more licenses from third parties. A license required under any such patents or proprietary rights may not be available to us, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we or our licensors or suppliers are sued for infringement, we could encounter substantial delays in, or be prohibited from, developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent our employees are 40 Table of Contents involved in research areas that are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that these employees may have used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims, which could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and may have a material adverse effect on us, even if we are successful in defending these claims. Delays encountered during the FDA approval process could shorten the patent protection period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize technologies or could allow others to come to market with similar technologies before us. Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive governmental regulation including the requirement of FDA approval or clearance before our product candidates may be marketed. Both before and after approval or clearance of our product candidates, we, our product candidates, our suppliers, our contract manufacturers and our contract testing laboratories are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: • warning letters; • fines and other monetary penalties; • unanticipated expenditures; • delays in the FDA’s approving or clearing or the FDA’s refusing to approve or clear a product candidate; • product recall or seizure; • interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials; • operating restrictions; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecutions. Our product candidates require FDA authorization by means of an approval or clearance prior to marketing. Some of our product candidates, including GEM OS1 and GEM OS2, are regulated as combination products. For a combination product, the FDA must determine which center or centers within the FDA will review the product candidate and under what legal authority the product candidate will be reviewed. For the current indications, GEM OS1 and GEM OS2 are being reviewed by medical device authorities at the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, with participation by the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. GEM OS1 and GEM OS2 require an approved PMA before they can be marketed. The process of obtaining FDA approval of a PMA is lengthy, expensive, and uncertain, and we cannot be sure that our drug-device combination product candidates regulated by the FDA as medical devices, or any other product candidates, will be approved in a timely fashion, or at all. If the FDA does not approve or clear our product candidates in a timely fashion, or at all, our business and financial condition may be ad versely affected. We cannot be sure that the FDA will not select a different center and/or different legal authority for our other product candidates, in which case the path to regulatory approval would be different and could be more lengthy and costly. The review of combination products is often more complex and more time consuming than the review of a product candidate under the jurisdiction of only one center within the FDA. In addition to the approval and clearance requirements, other numerous and pervasive regulatory requirements apply, both before and after approval or clearance, to us, our product and product 41 Table of Contents candidates, and our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and contract laboratories. These include requirements related to: • testing; • manufacturing; • quality control; • labeling; • advertising; • promotion; • distribution; • export; • reporting to the FDA certain adverse experiences associated with use of the product; and • obtaining additional approvals or clearances for certain modifications to the products or their labeling or claims. In November 2005, we received approval from the FDA to commence a feasibility trial with GEM OS1 for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions and we completed patient enrollment of 20 patients in July 2006. In May 2007, we received approval from the FDA to initiate patient enrollment in a pivotal clinical trail of GEM OS1 for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions. Under this approval, we are permitted to enroll up to 396 patients in the study at up to 28 sites. Patient enrollment has commenced on this trial. We also are subject to inspection by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements, as are our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and contract testing laboratories, and we cannot be sure that the FDA will not identify compliance issues that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. The FDA’s requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our product candidates, and our suppliers, contract manufacturers and contract laboratories. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future or that such laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect upon our business. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. International sales of our product and any of our product candidates that we commercialize are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country in which the products are sold. Accordingly, the introduction of our product candidates in markets outside the United States will be subject to regulatory approvals in those jurisdictions. The regulatory review process varies from country to country. Many countries also impose product standards, packaging and labeling requirements and import restrictions on medical devices. In addition, each country has its own tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. The approval by foreign government authorities is unpredictable and uncertain and can be expensive. Our ability to market our approved products could be substantially limited due to delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, the necessary approvals or clearances. Prior to marketing our products in any country outside of the United States, we must obtain marketing approval in that country. Approval and other regulatory requirements vary by jurisdiction and differ from the U.S. requirements. We may be required to perform additional pre-clinical or clinical studies even if FDA approval has been obtained. Under EU regulatory systems, our lead product candidates will be reviewed as medicinal products. Marketing authorization for medicinal products can be submitted under the centralized 42 Table of Contents European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (‘‘EMEA’’) or the decentralized mutual recognition process. The centralized procedure is mandatory for biotechnology derived products. If a product is approved under the centralized procedure, it receives a single marketing authorization that is valid in all EU member states. The decentralized process provides for mutual recognition of national approved decisions which allows the holder of an approval from one EU member state to submit an application in other member states requesting that they recognize the approval already granted. In order to market our approved products in Japan, approval must be obtained from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. We will need to conduct clinical trials in Japan to obtain approval there for our products. Accordingly, we will need to enter into a third party strategic alliance to conduct such clinical trials, obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and market in Japan. We may not succeed in achieving such an alliance and we ultimately may not obtain the approvals necessary to market our product candidates in Japan. In Canada, the manufacture, distribution and use of medical devices, drugs and equipment is regulated by a variety of industry-specific statutes and regulations. Medical products sold in Canada are regulated by the Food and Drugs Act (Canada). Even though a drug or device may be approved for use in another jurisdiction, it may not be sold in Canada until approved by the national regulatory agency, Health Canada. Although in May 2006 we received marketing approval from Health Canada to market GEM 21S in Canada, we will need to present data from clinical trials to obtain approval for our other product candidates. We ultimately may not obtain the approvals necessary to market our product candidates in Canada. The results of our clinical trials may be insufficient to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. We will only receive regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or the applicable foreign regulatory agency, in well designed and conducted clinical trials, that the product candidate is safe and effective. If we are unable to demonstrate that a product candidate will be safe and effective in advanced clinical trials involving larger numbers of patients, we will be unable to submit the PMA, NDA or other application necessary to receive regulatory approval to commercialize the product candidate. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. We face risks that: • the product candidate may not prove to be safe or effective; • the product candidate’s benefits may not outweigh its risks; • the results from more advanced clinical trials may not confirm the positive results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may interpret data from pre-clinical and clinical testing in different ways than we interpret them; and • the FDA or other regulatory agencies may require additional or expanded trials. We have only limited experience in regulatory affairs, and some of our products may be based on new technologies. These factors may affect our ability or the time we require to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We have only limited experience in filing and prosecuting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. Moreover, some of the products that are likely to result from our product development, licensing and acquisition programs may be based on new technologies that have not been extensively tested in humans. The regulatory requirements governing these types of product candidates may be less well defined or more rigorous than for conventional products. As a result, we may experience a longer regulatory process in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals of any products that we develop, license or acquire. 43 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our approved products by third party payers, there may be no commercially viable markets for our approved products or the markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third party payers affect the market for our approved products. The efficacy, safety, performance and cost-effectiveness of our product and product candidates and of any competing products will determine the availability and level of reimbursement. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored healthcare and private insurance. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to produce clinical data, which may involve one or more clinical trials, that compares the cost-effectiveness of our approved products to other available therapies. We may not obtain international reimbursement or pricing approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement or pricing approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our approved products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third party payers may adversely affect the demand for our future approved products currently under development and limit our ability to sell our approved products on a profitable basis. In addition, third party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and services. If reimbursement for our approved products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our approved products would be impaired and our future revenues, if any, would be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with the U.S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federal health care program. The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute is very broad in scope and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. In addition, most of the states in which our approved products may be sold have adopted laws similar to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and some of these laws are even broader than the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute in that their prohibitions are not limited to items or services paid for by Federal health care program but, instead, apply regardless of the source of payment. Violations of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. All of our financial relationships with health care providers and others who provide products or services to federal health care program beneficiaries are potentially governed by the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. We believe our operations are in compliance with the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to investigations or litigation alleging violations of these laws, which could be time-consuming and costly to us and could divert management’s attention from operating our business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if our arrangements were found to violate the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute or similar state laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Patients may discontinue their participation in our clinical studies, which may negatively impact the results of these studies and extend the timeline for completion of our development programs. Clinical trials for our product candidates require sufficient patient enrollment. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely or cost-effective manner. Patients enrolled in 44 Table of Contents our clinical studies may discontinue their participation at any time during the study as a result of a number of factors, including withdrawing their consent or experiencing adverse clinical events, which may or may not be judged related to our product candidates under evaluation. If a large number of patients in any one of our studies discontinue their participation in the study, the results from that study may not be positive or may not support a filing for regulatory approval of our product candidates. In addition, the time required to complete clinical trials is dependent upon, among other factors, the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • the nature of the clinical protocol requirements; • the availability of other treatments or marketed therapies (whether approved or experimental); • our ability to recruit and manage clinical centers and associated trials; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; and • the patient eligibility criteria for the study. Product quality or performance issues may be discovered through ongoing post-approval regulation by the FDA and by comparable international agencies, as well as through our internal standard quality process. The medical device industry is subject to substantial regulation by the FDA and by comparable international agencies. In addition to requiring clearance or approval to market new or improved devices, we are subject to ongoing post-approval regulation as a device manufacturer. Governmental regulations cover many aspects of our operations, including quality systems, marketing and device reporting. As a result, we continually collect and analyze information about product quality and product performance through field observations, customer feedback and other quality metrics. Through our standard quality process, in the second quarter of 2007 we learned that certain cups containing the β-TCP component of our GEM 21S product contained extra β-TCP. We believe that the overfilled cups do not present a potential safety issue to patients because (1) β-TCP by itself is a marketed bone grafting material, (2) the β-TCP within the cups meets all product release specifications, and (3) the product labeling instructs the surgeon to only use the amount of GEM 21S needed to fill the bone defect. We have reviewed this issue with the FDA and Luitpold and have concluded that no field action is required on our part. However, we voluntarily agreed to replace approximately 1,100 potentially affected GEM 21S kits that were held in Luitpold’s inventory. The financial impact of providing replacement product was approximately $0.1 million and is fully reflected in our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2007. Additionally, as part of an attempt to ensure customer satisfaction, we agreed to replace any returned kit from the field if the clinician so desired. After sending a letter outlining the situation to potential customers, only a small number of kits were replaced. The use of hazardous materials in our operations may subject us to environmental claims or liability. We intend to conduct research and development and some future manufacturing operations in our Franklin, Tennessee facility. Our research and development processes will involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive compounds. We will conduct experiments that are common in the biotechnology industry, in which we may use small quantities of chemical hazards, including those that are corrosive, toxic and flammable, and trace amounts of radioactive materials. The risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials cannot be eliminated. We do not maintain a separate insurance policy for these types of risks. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge or contamination, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste pr oducts. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. 45 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. At December 31, 2007, we had net operating loss carryforwards totaling $42.3 million available to reduce our future federal income tax liabilities. Our ability to use these net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our future federal income tax liabilities could be subject to annual limitations. In connection with any offering, we may realize a ‘‘more than fifty percent change in ownership’’ which could further limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards accumulated to date to reduce future taxable income and tax liabilities. Additionally, because U.S. tax laws limit the time during which net operating loss carryforwards may be applied against future taxable income and tax liabilities, we may not be able to take advantage of our net operating loss for federal income tax purposes. Liquidation of investments could be delayed. As of December 31, 2007, we have investments of $41.8 million in marketable securities. We invest in auction rate securities and municipal bonds with AAA credit ratings. Substantially all of our auction rate security investments are bonds sold by state guarantee agencies backed by student loans under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (‘‘FFELP’’). The student loans are guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education at amounts representing a substantial portion of the loans. Every 28 days a Dutch auction is held by dealers and a rate of interest is set that matches buyers and sellers. After successful auctions in January 2008, some auctions in February and March 2008 failed when demand for bonds in the auction rate market was insufficient to clear the market. In the case of failed auctions, the investor receives a penalty rate of interest, which is higher than the market rate. Due to the lack of liquidity, the investor holds the bonds until the next auction date when another attempt at a successful auction is made. We believe that, given the federal government backing of the majority of our investments, the failed auctions are not due to the deteriorating credit quality of the investments, but rather the current overall U.S. credit crisis and market illiquidity. As a result, we believe the investments are not significantly impaired because of the FFELP backing and because cash from the investments is not urgently required. Our near-term cash requirements will be satisfied by existing cash balances and by cash generated from the January 2008 sale of our orofacial therapeutic business to Luitpold. The investments are classified as long-term because we do not anticipate liquidating the investments over the next twelve months. We will need to raise additional capital in the future. If we are unable to raise additional capital in the future, our product development could be limited and our long term viability may be threatened; however, if we raise additional capital, your percentage ownership as a stockholder could decrease and constraints could be placed on the operation of our business. We have experienced negative operating cash flows since our inception and have funded our operations primarily from proceeds received from sales of our stock and the licensing and sale of our orofacial therapeutic business. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and our investments in marketable securities, including the net proceeds of our February 2007 secondary public offering and the January 2008 sale of our orofacial therapeutic business to Luitpold, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements at least through the first quarter of 2010. While we have no immediate plans to do so, we may seek to obtain additional funds at any time in the future through equity or debt financings, or strategic alliances with third parties, either alone or in combination with equity financings. These financings could result in substantial dilution to the holders of our common stock or require contractual or other restrictions on our operatio ns or on alternatives that may be available to us in considering strategic transactions, dividends or liquidation preferences, debt service and/or revenue sharing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our 46 Table of Contents operations. Any such required financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us and the failure to procure such required financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A variety of factors could impact our need to raise additional capital, the timing of any required financings and the amount of such financings. Factors that may cause our future capital requirements to be greater than anticipated or could accelerate our need for funds include, without limitation: • unforeseen developments during our pre-clinical activities and clinical trials; • delays in the timing of receipt of required regulatory approvals; • unanticipated expenditures in research and development or manufacturing activities; • delayed market acceptance of our approved product; • unanticipated expenditures in the acquisition and defense of intellectual property rights; • the failure to develop strategic alliances for the marketing of some of our product candidates; • additional inventory builds to adequately support the launch of new products; • unforeseen changes in healthcare reimbursement for procedures using our approved product; • inability to train a sufficient number of surgeons to create demand for our approved product; • lack of financial resources to adequately support our operations; • difficulties in maintaining commercial scale manufacturing capacity and capability; • unforeseen problems with our third-party manufacturers and service providers or with our specialty suppliers of certain raw materials; • unanticipated difficulties in operating in international markets; • unanticipated financial resources needed to respond to technological changes and increased competition; • unforeseen problems in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to market our approved product; • enactment of new legislation or administrative regulations; • the application to our business of new court decisions and regulatory interpretations; • claims that might be brought in excess of our insurance coverage; and • the failure to comply with regulatory guidelines. In addition, although we have no present commitments or understandings to do so, we may seek to expand our operations and product line through acquisitions or joint ventures. Any acquisition or joint venture would likely increase our capital requirements. If adequate financing is not available, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate our operations. Consequently, our long-term viability would be threatened. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our business, operating results and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Beginning with our annual report for our fiscal year ended 2007, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting. This report contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not our internal controls are effective. Our annual report for fiscal year ended 2007 contains a statement that our independent auditors have issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. 47 Table of Contents We began in 2007 the process to document and evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significant costs, the commitment of time and operational resources and the diversion of management’s attention. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent auditors are unable to express an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, then the market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer. Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will be highly volatile. Prior to our initial public offering (‘‘IPO’’) in May 2006, there was no public market for our common stock. An active and liquid trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any securities analysts will initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our common stock. The trading prices of the securities of medical technology and biotechnology companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include, among other things: • whether we receive FDA approval to market any of our product candidates in the United States or similar regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions; • whether we successfully commercialize any approved product in the future; • developments relating to patents, proprietary rights and potential infringement; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial products; • reimbursement policies of various governmental and third party payers; • public concern over the safety and efficacy of GEM 21S or any of our product candidates; • changes in estimates of our revenue and operating results; • variances in our revenue or operating results from forecasts or projections; • recommendations of securities analysts regarding investment in our stock; and • market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. If our future quarterly or annual operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock will likely decline. In addition, share price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals or milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we expect that we will publicly announce the anticipated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, our stock price may decline and the commercialization of our product and product candidates may be delayed. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could drop significantly if our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. 48 Table of Contents All of the shares sold in our IPO and in our February 2007 secondary offering were freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our ‘‘affiliates’’ as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We expect that we also will be required to register any securities sold in future private financings. In addition, all of our common stock issued prior to our IPO is freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless owned by our affiliates. Furthermore, as of November 23, 2006, holders of approximately 9,330,495 shares of common stock had piggyback registration rights with respect to their shares in connection with future offerings. Sales by stockholders of substantial amounts of our shares, or the perception that these sales may occur in the future, could affect materially and adversely the market price of our common stock. At December 31, 2007, there were options issued and outstanding to purchase 1,946,902 shares of our common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $7.03. Also at December 31, 2007, there were 315,112 options remaining available for future for issuance of options under our stock option plans. Our executive officers, directors and major stockholders maintain the ability to substantially influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. As of December 31, 2007, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own shares representing approximately 15.1% of our capital stock. Accordingly, our current executive officers, directors and their affiliates have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions, as well as management and affairs. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control of us at a premium price if these stockholders oppose it, even if it would benefit our other stockholders. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us. Provisions of our corporate charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. 49 Table of Contents Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections titled ‘‘Business’’, ‘‘Risk Factors’’ and ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations’’, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 27A of the Securities Act. Statements in this Annual Report that are not historical facts are hereby identified as ‘‘forward-looking statements’’ for the purpose of the safe harbor provided by Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act. Forward-looking statements convey our current expectations or forecasts of future events. All statements contained in this Annual Report other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regar ding our future financial position, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, plans and objectives of management for future operations. The words ‘‘may’’, ‘‘continue’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘will’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘anticipate’’ and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not necessarily mean that a statement is not forward-looking. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements about: • success, advancement and timing of clinical trials and studies and eventual regulatory approval of our product candidates or other new product introductions; • market acceptance of and demand for our product candidates; • regulatory actions that could adversely affect the price of or demand for our approved products; • our intellectual property portfolio and licensing strategy; • our marketing and manufacturing capacity and strategy; • estimates regarding our capital requirements, and anticipated timing of the need for additional funds; • product liability claims; • economic conditions that could adversely affect the level of demand for our product candidates; • financial markets; and • the competitive environment. Any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be inaccurate. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy and financial needs. They may be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including the risks, uncertainties and assumptions described in ‘‘Risk Factors’’. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances contained in this Annual Report may not occur as contemplated, and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied by the forward-looking statements. You should read this Annual Report with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report by these cautionary statements. You should not unduly rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events or otherwise. You should, however, review the factors and risks we describe in the reports we will file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this Annual Report. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 50 Table of Contents 