Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and the results of its operations are subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future financial performance. If we fail to predict consumer preferences and trends accurately, develop and introduce new products rapidly or enhance and extend our existing core products, our sales will suffer. Sales of our platforms, related software and learning toy products typically have grown in the periods following initial introduction, but we expect sales of specific products to decrease as they mature. For example, 18 Table of Contents net sales of the classic LeapPad platforms in our U.S. Consumer business peaked in 2002 and have since been declining. We must continuously develop new products. The timely introduction of new products and the enhancement and extension of existing products, through the introduction of additional software or by other means, is critical to our future sales growth. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop new technologies and products and enhance existing technologies and product lines, as well as successfully integrate third-party technology with our own. The successful development of new products and the enhancement and extension of our current products will require us to anticipate the needs and preferences of consumers and educators and to forecast market and technological trends accurately. Consumer preferences, and particularly children’s preferences, are continually changing and are difficult to predict. In addition, educational curricula change as states adopt new standards. The failure to enhance and extend our existing products or to develop and introduce new products and services that achieve and sustain market acceptance and produce acceptable margins would harm our business and operating results. In 2008, we expect to introduce a number of new products and services to the market and we expect these new products to represent a substantial portion of our 2008 sales. We cannot assure you that any new products or services will be successful or accepted and adopted by the consumers, and if these new products are not successful, our business results will be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully launch, market and operate our web-connected products and the software that is required for their use, the sales of our products and our business results could suffer. In 2008, we are launching a number of web-connected products that will require parents to download software onto their computers, connect to the Internet and create online accounts in order to access the full capabilities and features of these products and our Internet-based LeapFrog Learning Path. For example, while the title included with the purchase of our Tag reading system can be used by the child straight out of the box, in order to add and manage new content on the Tag reader and to connect to our LeapFrog Learning Path application, parents will need to install our LeapFrog Connect software onto their computers and log onto our website. Many toys and other products targeted towards children do not require the use of a computer or connection to the Internet, and parents who do not have access to or are not facile with a computer or the Internet, may react adversely to our new web-connected products. In addition, if the LeapFrog Learning Path or other online features of our web-connected products are not accepted or adopted by parents, or if children have a negative reaction to the parental feedback aspect of the LeapFrog Learning Path, our business may be adversely affected. Further, as we launch these new products and software and Internet applications, we may have technical malfunctions or compatibility issues with the computer systems and equipment of the users of our products that could also reduce the adoption of our web-connected products, which in turn could adversely affect our business. Privacy concerns about our web-connected products and related software and applications could harm our business or reputation. By using the Internet-based LeapFrog Learning Path application, information captured by our web-connected products about a child’s performance and activities will be transferred and stored on our website servers. Due to privacy, confidentiality and security concerns, parents may not want our products collecting information about their child’s activities and performance and may not feel comfortable uploading and storing this information on our website servers. If these concerns prevent parents from accepting or adopting our connected products, the sales of our products and our business results could suffer. In addition, if the confidentiality of such information stored on our website servers is compromised or breached by third-parties or our mismanagement, our reputation could be tarnished, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. 19 Table of Contents System failures related to our web store or the websites that support our web-connected products could harm our business. Our web store on LeapFrog.com, the LeapFrog Learning Path application and our web-connected products depend upon the reliable performance of our web operations and the network infrastructure that supports our websites. Historically, our e-commerce store at LeapFrog.com has represented a small portion of our total sales. Also, we have previously launched only one platform, our FLY Fusion Pentop Computer, that uses our website for providing access to content and applications that can be downloaded onto the platform. If demand for accessing our websites exceeds the capacity we have planned to handle peak periods, then customers could be inconvenienced and our business may suffer. For example, in December 2007, our website suffered service disruptions and delays due to the number of consumers attempting to access it. Any significant disruption to our website or internal computer systems or malfunctions related to transaction processing on our e-commerce store or content management systems could result in a loss of potential or existing customers and sales. Although our systems have been designed to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. Any unplanned disruption of our systems could results in adverse financial impact to our operations. Our advertising and promotional activities may not be successful. Our products are marketed through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs, and as the percentage of our products become web-connected, we are increasing our online promotional programs and marketing activities. Our ability to sell product is dependent in part upon the success of such programs. If we do not successfully market our products, or if media or other advertising or promotional costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our sales and market share could decline. We currently compete primarily in the learning toy and electronic learning aids category of the U.S. toy industry and, to some degree, in the overall U.S. and international toy industry. We believe we compete to some extent, and will increasingly compete in the future, with makers of popular game platforms, electronic entertainment devices and smart mobile devices. Our School segment competes in the U.S. supplemental educational materials market. Each of these markets is very competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. Many of our direct, indirect and potential competitors have significantly longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to changes in consumer requirements or preferences or to new or emerging technologies. They may also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively in our markets. Our business depends on three retailers that together accounted for approximately 54% of our consolidated gross sales and 69% of the U.S. Consumer segment’s gross sales in 2007, and our dependence upon a small group of retailers may increase. In 2007, sales to Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us and Target accounted for approximately 21%, 20% and 13%, respectively, of our consolidated gross sales. We expect that a small number of large retailers will continue to account for a significant majority of our sales and that our sales to these retailers may increase as a percentage of our total sales. 20 Table of Contents We do not have long-term agreements with any of our retailers. As a result, agreements with respect to pricing, shelf space, cooperative advertising or special promotions, among other things, are subject to periodic negotiation with each retailer. Retailers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering one-time purchase orders. If any of these retailers reduce their purchases from us, change the terms on which we conduct business with them or experience a future downturn in their business, our business and operating results could be harmed. Our business is seasonal, and therefore our annual operating results depend, in large part, on sales relating to the brief holiday season. Sales of consumer electronics and toy products in the retail channel are highly seasonal, causing the substantial majority of our sales to retailers to occur during the third and fourth quarters. In 2007, approximately 74% of our total net sales occurred during the second half of the year. This percentage of total sales may increase as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through just-in-time inventory management systems. Generally, retailers time their orders so that suppliers like us will fill the orders closer to the time of purchase by consumers, thereby reducing their need to maintain larger on-hand inventories throughout the year to meet demand. Failure to predict accurately and respond appropriately to retailer and consumer demand on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations, or any disruption of consumer buying habits during this key period, would harm our business and operating results. We expect we will incur losses in the first and second quarters of each year for the foreseeable future. If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, or on a timely basis, or if our retailers’ inventory levels are too high, our operating results will be adversely affected. The high degree of seasonality of our business places stringent demands on our inventory forecasting and production planning processes. If we fail to meet tight shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our merchandise on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If our inventory forecasting and production planning processes result in our manufacturing inventory in excess of the levels demanded by our customers, we could be required to record inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. If the inventory of our products held by our retailers is too high, they may not place or may reduce orders for additional products, which would unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results. We depend on our suppliers for our components and raw materials, and our production or operating margins would be harmed if these suppliers are not able to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available. Some of the components used to make our products, including our application-specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, currently come from single suppliers. Additionally, the demand for some components such as liquid crystal displays, integrated circuits or other electronic components is volatile, which may lead to shortages. If our suppliers are unable to meet our demand for our components and raw materials and if we are unable to obtain an alternative source or if the price available from our current suppliers or an alternative source is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed and our operating results would suffer. In addition, as we do not have long-term agreements with our major suppliers, they may stop manufacturing our components at any time. 21 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of manufacturers, virtually all of which are located in China, to produce our finished products, and our reputation and operating results could be harmed if they fail to produce quality products in a timely and cost-effective manner and in sufficient quantities. Recently, there have been product quality issues for other producers of toys and other companies who manufacture goods in China. We outsource substantially all of our finished goods assembly, using several Asian manufacturers, most of which manufacture our products at facilities in the Guangdong province in the southeastern region of China. We depend on these manufacturers to produce sufficient volumes of our finished products in a timely fashion, at satisfactory quality and cost levels and in accordance with our and our customers’ terms of engagement. If our manufacturers fail to produce quality finished products on time, at expected cost targets and in sufficient quantities, or if any of our products are found to be tainted or otherwise raise health or safety concerns, our reputation and operating results would suffer. In addition, as we do not have long-term agreements with our manufacturers, they may stop manufacturing for us at any time, with little or no notice. We may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our finished products and our business and operating results could be harmed. Any errors or defects contained in our products, or our failure to comply with applicable safety standards, could result in delayed shipments or rejection of our products, damage to our reputation and expose us to regulatory or other legal action. We have experienced, and in the future may experience, delays in releasing some models and versions of our products due to defects or errors in our products. Our products may contain errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products by our retailers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims, any of which could harm our business. Individuals could sustain injuries from our products, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from such injuries. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. Moreover, we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. We are subject to the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, or CPSC, and other similar federal, state and international rules and regulatory authorities. Our products could be subject to involuntary recalls and other actions by such authorities. Concerns about potential public harm and liability may lead us to voluntarily recall selected products. Recalls or post-manufacture repairs of our products could harm our reputation and our competitive position, increase our costs or reduce our net sales. Costs related to unexpected defects include the costs of writing down the value of inventory of defective products and providing product replacement as well as the cost of defending against litigation related to the defective products. Further, as a result of recent recalls and safety issues related to products of a number of manufacturers in the toy industry, some of our retailer customers have been increasing their testing requirements of the products we ship to them. These additional requirements may result in delayed or cancelled shipments, increased logistics and quality assurance costs, or both, which could adversely affect our operations and business results. In addition, recalls or post-manufacturing repairs by other companies in our industry could affect consumer behavior and cause reduced purchases of our products and increase our quality assurance costs in allaying consumer concerns. We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to hire, retain and integrate sufficient qualified personnel to maintain and expand our business. Our future success depends partly on the continued contribution of our key executives and technical, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel. In 2007, we hired new executives in international sales, product innovation and marketing, and accounting and added substantially to our web services and web products teams. In addition to hiring new management personnel, we have experienced significant turnover in our management positions. If our new leaders are unable to properly integrate into the business or if we are unable to retain or replace key personnel or functional capabilities on a timely basis or at all, our business will be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Part of our compensation package includes stock and/or stock options. If our stock performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees. In addition, because we have been required to treat all stock-based compensation as an expense as of January 1, 2006, we experienced increased compensation costs beginning in 2006. Changes in compensation packages or costs could impact our profitability and/or our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel. We have had significant challenges to our management systems and resources, particularly in our supply chain and information systems, and as a result we may experience difficulties managing our business. We rely on various information technology systems and business processes to manage our operations. We are currently implementing modifications and upgrades to our systems and processes. There are inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems and processes, including substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and the risk of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. Any information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. Our international consumer business may not succeed and subjects us to risks associated with international operations. We derived approximately 23% of our net sales from markets outside the United States during 2007. Our efforts to increase sales for our products outside the United States may not be successful and may not achieve higher sales or gross margins or contribute to profitability. Our business is, and will increasingly be, subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: • developing successful products that appeal to the international markets; • political and economic instability, military conflicts and civil unrest; • greater difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • transportation delays and interruptions; • greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; • complications in complying with laws in varying jurisdictions and changes in governmental policies; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; • public health problems, such as outbreaks of SARS or avian flu, especially in locations where we manufacture or otherwise have operations, • effectively monitoring compliance by foreign manufacturers with U. S. regulatory requirements for product safety, • natural disasters; and • limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings. Any difficulties with our international operations could harm our future sales and operating results. Our financial performance will depend in part on our School segment, which may not be successful. In 1999, we launched our School segment, which was formerly known as LeapFrog SchoolHouse, to deliver classroom instructional programs to the pre-kindergarten through fifth grade market and explore adult learning 23 Table of Contents opportunities. To date, the School segment, has incurred cumulative operating losses. In December 2006, we announced a reorganization of the School segment, which reduced the size of our School organization by half. Going forward, the segment is focusing sales and product development resources on reading curriculum for core grade levels. However, if we cannot increase market acceptance of our School segment’s supplemental educational products, the segment’s future sales and profitability could suffer, which would adversely affect our financial results. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent our competitors from using our technologies or similar technologies to develop competing products, which could weaken our competitive position and harm our operating results. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technologies that are used in our learning platforms and related software. We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. The contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter independent third-party development of similar technologies. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where we do not hold patents or trademarks or where the laws may not protect our intellectual property as fully as in the United States. Some of our products and product features have limited intellectual property protection, and, as a consequence, we may not have the legal right to prevent others from reverse engineering or otherwise copying and using these features in competitive products. In addition, monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is costly, and any dispute or other litigation, regardless of outcome, may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. However, if we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our rights could be diminished and our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. Third parties have claimed, and may claim in the future, that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to incur significant litigation or licensing expenses or to stop selling some of our products or using some of our trademarks. In the course of our business, we periodically receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. If we, our distributors or our manufacturers are adjudged to be infringing the intellectual property rights of any third party, we or they may be required to obtain a license to use those rights, which may not be obtainable on reasonable terms, if at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development and sale of some of our products or against the use of a trademark or copyright in the sale of some of our products. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all the liability that could be imposed. For more information regarding this type of risk, see “Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings—Tinkers & Chance v. LeapFrog Enterprises, Inc.” in this report. Our liquidity may be insufficient to meet the long-term or periodic needs of our business. There is no guarantee that unforeseen events may not stress or exceed our current or future liquidity, including our ability to raise additional capital in a timely manner. In addition, current constraints in the credit market have recently adversely affected the market value of our investments and we may incur asset impairment related to changes in the risk profile of the financial markets in the future. For more discussion on our investments, see “Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Investments” and “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations” in this report. 24 Table of Contents Our net loss would be increased and our assets would be reduced if we are required to record impairment of our intangible assets. Intangible assets include the excess purchase price over the cost of net assets acquired, or goodwill. Goodwill arose from our September 1997 acquisition of substantially all the assets and business of our predecessor, LeapFrog RBT, and our acquisition of substantially all the assets of Explore Technologies in July 1998. Our intangible assets had a net balance of $24.5 million, $25.9 million December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which are allocated to our U.S. Consumer segment. Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives are tested for impairment at least annually. In determining the existence of impairment, we consider changes in our strategy and in market conditions and this could result in adjustments to our recorded asset balances. Specifically, we would be required to record impairment if the carrying values of our intangible assets exceed their estimated fair values. Such impairment recognition would decrease the carrying value of intangible assets and increase our net loss. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had $19.5 million of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives. We tested our goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment during the fourth quarter by comparing their carrying values to their estimated fair values. As a result of this assessment, we determined that no adjustments were necessary to the stated values. We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations that could impose additional costs or changes on the conduct of our business. We operate in a highly regulated environment with international, federal, state and local governmental entities regulating many aspects of our business, including products and the importation of products. Regulations with which we must comply include accounting standards, taxation requirements (including changes in applicable income tax rates, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), trade restrictions, regulations regarding financial matters, environmental regulations, advertising directed toward children, safety and other administrative and regulatory restrictions. Compliance with these and other laws and regulations could impose additional costs on the conduct of our business. While we take steps that we believe are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we have achieved compliance or that we will be in compliance in the future. Failure to comply with the relevant regulations could result in monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in laws or regulations may lead to increased costs, changes in our effective tax rate, or the interruption of normal business operations that would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. We are subject from time to time to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes. As the outcome of these matters is difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcomes of any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the business. For more information regarding litigation see “Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings” in this report. Weak economic conditions, armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, labor strikes or public health issues could have a material adverse effect on our business. Weak economic conditions in the United States or abroad as a result of lower consumer spending, lower consumer confidence, higher inflation, higher commodity prices, such as the price of oil, higher costs of capital, restricted capital availability or constrained credit due to the subprime market distress, political conditions, natural disaster, labor strikes or other factors could negatively impact our sales or profitability. In particular, if an economic recession were to occur, it would likely have a more pronounced impact on discretionary spending for products such as ours. Furthermore, armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues, whether in the United States or abroad could cause damage and disruption to our company, our suppliers, our 25 Table of Contents manufacturers, or our customers or could create political or economic instability, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Although it is impossible to predict the consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our product or create delay or inefficiencies in our supply chain by making it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products to our customers, or for our manufacturers to deliver products to us, or suppliers to provide component parts. Notably, our U.S. distribution centers, including our distribution center in Fontana, California, and our corporate headquarters are located in California near major earthquake faults that have experienced earthquakes in the past. In addition to the factors noted above, our existing earthquake insurance relating to our distribution center may be insufficient and does not cover any of our other operations. If we are unable to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and our management may not be able to provide its report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006. The assessment as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, concluded that these controls were effective. For more information, see “Item 9A—Controls and Procedures” in this report on our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. We received an unqualified opinion from our external auditors on our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Areas of our internal control over financial reporting may require improvement from time to time. If management is unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective at any time in the future, or if our external auditors are unable to express an opinion that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could result in the decrease of the market price of our Class A common stock. One stockholder controls a majority of our voting power as well as the composition of our board of directors. Holders of our Class A common stock will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote. Our Class A common stock entitles its holders to one vote per share, and our Class B common stock entitles its holders to ten votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, Lawrence J. Ellison and entities controlled by him beneficially owned approximately 16.6 million shares of our Class B common stock, which represents approximately 53% of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As a result, Mr. Ellison controls all stockholder voting power, including with respect to: • the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • any determinations with respect to mergers, other business combinations, or changes in control; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; • our financing activities; and • payment of dividends on our capital stock, subject to the limitations imposed by our credit facility. Mr. Ellison could have interests that diverge from those of our other stockholders. This control by Mr. Ellison could depress the market price of our Class A common stock; deter, delay or prevent a change in control of LeapFrog; or affect other significant corporate transactions that otherwise might be viewed as beneficial for other stockholders. 26 Table of Contents The limited voting rights of our Class A common stock could negatively affect its attractiveness to investors and its liquidity and, as a result, its market value. The holders of our Class A and Class B common stock generally have identical rights, except that holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share and holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders. The holders of our Class B common stock have various additional voting rights, including the right to approve the issuance of any additional shares of Class B common stock and any amendment of our certificate of incorporation that adversely affects the rights of our Class B common stock. The difference in the voting rights of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock could diminish the value of our Class A common stock to the extent that investors or any potential future purchasers of our Class A common stock attribute value to the superior voting or other rights of our Class B common stock. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our credit facility agreement may delay or prevent an acquisition of our Company, which could decrease the value of our Class A common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent, requirements for advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations, and the voting power associated with our Class B common stock. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used by our board of directors to affect a rights plan or “poison pill” that could dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer and may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing an acquisition of our company. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if an offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, under the terms of our credit agreement, we may need to seek the written consent of our lenders of the acquisition of our company. Our stockholders may experience significant additional dilution upon the exercise of options or issuance of stock awards. As of December 31, 2007, there were outstanding awards under our equity incentive plans that could result in the issuance of approximately 10.2 million shares of Class A common stock. To the extent we issue shares upon the exercise of any options or vesting of any other equity incentive awards, investors in our Class A common stock will experience additional dilution. Our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. All the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public markets regarding new products, product enhancements or product recalls by us or our competitors or any other material announcements could affect our stock price. Speculation in the media and analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock and market trends unrelated to our stock can cause the price of our stock to change. A significant drop in the price of our stock could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 27 Table of Contents 