Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. 18 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Operations Reimbursement levels for our specialized diagnostic services are subject to continuing change and any reductions in reimbursement levels would decrease our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Reimbursement to healthcare providers, such as specialized diagnostic service providers like us, is subject to continuing change in policies by governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private insurers, including managed care organizations and other private payors, such as hospitals and private medical groups. Reimbursement from governmental payors is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments and administrative rulings and other policy changes, all of which could materially decrease the range of services for which we are reimbursed or the reimbursement rates we are paid. Reimbursement under the Medicare program for diagnostic services is subject to both the national Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule and physician fee schedule, each of which is subject to geographic adjustments and is updated annually. The physician fee schedule is designed to set compensation rates for those medical services provided to Medicare beneficiaries who require a degree of physician supervision. Outpatient clinical diagnostic laboratory tests are paid according to the clinical laboratory fee schedule. Although the clinical laboratory fee schedule is generally the only basis of payment that can be made by the Medicare program with respect to all clinical laboratories, certain laboratory tests that are performed by physicians, including most of the services provided by us, are exempt from the clinical laboratory fee schedule and are paid under the physician fee schedule. The clinical laboratory fee schedule sets the maximum amount payable under Medicare for each specific laboratory billing code. We bill the program directly and must accept the scheduled amount as payment in full for covered tests performed on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries. Those services reimbursed under the clinical laboratory fee schedule generally do not result in coinsurance amounts but may result in beneficiary deductible responsibility. Payment under the clinical laboratory fee schedule has been limited from year-to-year by Congressional action such as imposition of national limitation amounts and freezes on the otherwise applicable annual consumer price index, or CPI, updates. Although the CPI update of the clinical laboratory fee schedule has been frozen since 2004 by the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, on December 31, 2008, CMS published Transmittal 1660, CR 6070, that states that the annual update to payments made using the clinical laboratory fee schedule for calendar year 2009 is 4.5%. However, there is no guarantee that the clinical laboratory fee schedule will not be subsequently modified to reduce payments made thereunder. The payment amounts under the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule are important not only for our reimbursement under Medicare, but also because the schedule often establishes the payment amounts set by other third party payors. For example, state Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more than the Medicare fee schedule limit for clinical laboratory services furnished to Medicaid recipients. As a result, if there is a reduction in the clinical laboratory fee schedule, certain third party payors may also reduce reimbursement amounts. For the many anatomic pathology services we provide, we are reimbursed separately under the Medicare physician fee schedule and beneficiaries are responsible for applicable coinsurance and deductible amounts. The amounts paid under the physician fee schedule are based on geographically adjusted relative value units, or RVUs, for each procedure or service, adjusted by a budget neutrality adjustor, and multiplied by an annually determined conversion factor. Historically, the formula used to calculate the fee schedule conversion factor resulted, or would have resulted, in significant decreases in payment levels in recent years. However, in recent years, Congress has intervened multiple times to freeze or increase the conversion factor. The Medicare Improvements for Patient and Providers Act of 2008 included a provision for a 1.1% update to the conversion factor for calendar year 2009. Additionally, the budget neutrality adjustor was reduced by approximately 6.4% and shifted from being an RVU adjustor to being a conversion factor adjustor. The resulting conversion factor for 2009 is therefore approximately 5% lower than the 2008 conversion factor. However, the aforementioned shift of the budget neutrality adjustor to the conversion factor had the impact of increasing the calculated RVU’s for each 19 Table of Contents procedure. Consequently, this shift of the budget neutrality adjustor, along with other annual RVU updates, will result in an increase of approximately 6.8% on the procedures that we perform under the Medicare physician fee schedule. Nevertheless, future Congressional action cannot be assured and future methodological changes may result in reductions or increases to the Medicare physician fee schedule. Reductions in Medicare’s reimbursement rates for pathology services, for which we currently are paid under the Medicare physician fee schedule, would reduce the amount we receive for a substantial number of our specialized diagnostic tests. Because the vast majority of our diagnostic services currently are reimbursed under the physician fee schedule, changes to this fee schedule could result in a greater impact on our revenues than changes to the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule. The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 mandated creation of Medicare Administrative Contractors, or MACs, replacing the current system of fiscal intermediaries who oversee fee-for-service claims for the Medicare Part A and Part B programs. In November 2007, CMS awarded the MAC Jurisdiction 1 (California, Hawaii, Nevada, American Samoa, Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands) to Palmetto GBA. The full transition to Palmetto GBA occurred effective September 2, 2008. The MAC stated methodology for consolidation and transition of Local Coverage Determinations, or LCD, was based on the principal of “least restrictive.” New LCD’s related to our specialized diagnostic services were introduced as a result of the consolidation process, while others were retired, which may result in reductions to, delays in or denials for reimbursement for the services offered. Additionally, the transition from a fiscal intermediary to a MAC is in a very early stage and may result in delays in or denials for reimbursement that could have an adverse impact on us and our results of operations. Other policy changes may include competitive bidding by clinical laboratories for the provision of services to the Medicare program, which was the subject of a CMS demonstration project in Carlsbad, California, pursuant to the requirements of the MMA. The implementation of the demonstration project was delayed due to a federal preliminary injunction and the MIPPA subsequently repealed the competitive bidding demonstration project. If later implemented, competitive bidding could decrease our reimbursement rates for clinical laboratory tests. In addition, some private insurers and other third party payors link their rates to Medicare’s reimbursement rates and a reduction in Medicare reimbursement rates for clinical laboratory and pathology services could result in a corresponding reduction in the reimbursements we receive from such third party payors. Any reductions in reimbursement levels for our specialized diagnostic services would decrease our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Operating as a non-contracting provider with certain payors may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and contracting with those payors may be disadvantageous to us. We are currently considered a “non-contracting provider” by a number of third party payors because we have not entered into a specific contract to provide our specialized diagnostic services to their insured patients at specified rates of reimbursement. We were generally subject to reimbursement as a non-contracting provider for approximately half of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Use of a non-contracting provider typically results in greater coinsurance or copayment requirements for the patient, unless we elect to treat them as in-network in accordance with applicable law, which results in decreased revenues because we do not generally collect the full applicable out-of-network patient coinsurance or copayment obligations. In instances where we are prohibited by law from treating these patients as in-network, thus requiring them to pay additional costs or copayments, such patients may express concern about these additional costs to their hem/onc. As a result, that hem/onc may reduce or avoid prescribing our services for such patients, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Should any of the third party payors with whom we are not contracted insist that we enter into a contract for the specialized diagnostic services we provide, the resulting contract may contain pricing and other terms that are materially less favorable to us than the terms under which we currently operate. If reimbursement from a 20 Table of Contents particular payor increases, there is heightened risk that such a third party payor will insist that we enter into contractual arrangements that contain such terms. If we refuse to enter into a contract with such a third party payor, they may refuse to cover and reimburse for our services, which may lead to a decrease in case volume and a corresponding decrease in our revenues. If we contract with such a third party payor, although our case volume may increase as a result of the contract, our revenues per case under the contractual agreement and our gross margins may decrease. The overall net result of contracting with third party payors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in regulations, payor policies or contracting arrangements with payors or changes in other laws, regulations or policies may adversely affect coverage or reimbursement for our specialized diagnostic services, which may decrease our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Governmental payors, private insurers and other private payors have implemented and will continue to implement measures to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services, including clinical laboratory and pathology services. Congress has from time to time considered and implemented changes to laws and regulations governing healthcare service providers, including specialized diagnostic service providers. These changes have adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect coverage for clinical laboratory and pathology services, including the specialized diagnostic services we provide. In addition, as a result of the new presidential administration’s focus on healthcare reform, there is risk that the Federal government may implement changes in laws and regulations governing healthcare service providers, including measures to control costs or reductions in reimbursement levels, which may have an adverse impact on our business. We also believe that healthcare professionals, including hem/oncs, will not use our services if third party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for them. These changes in federal, state, local and third party payor regulations or policies may decrease our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For approximately half of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we were generally subject to reimbursement as a non-contracting provider and payments to us as a non-contracting provider can be changed by third party payors at any time. We will continue to be a non-contracting provider until such time as we enter into contracts with third party payors for whom we are not currently contracted. We estimate contractual allowances with respect to revenues from third party payors with whom we are not currently contracted. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we recorded positive changes in prior period accounting estimates to reduce contractual allowances, which increased our revenues by $3.3 million and $792,000, respectively. These favorable changes in accounting estimates related primarily to non-contracted payors and resulted from continued improvements to our billing systems and collection processes, as well as increased hiring of personnel and management focused on the collection of accounts receivable for services rendered in prior periods. During the years ended December 31, 2006, we did not make any significant adjustments to our revenue estimates for prior periods. Because a substantial portion of our revenues is from third party payors with whom we are not currently contracted, it is likely that we will be required to make positive or negative adjustments to accounting estimates with respect to contractual allowances in the future (as we have made in each of the last several quarters and annual reporting periods), which may adversely affect our results of operations, our credibility with financial analysts and investors and our stock price. Although, during the past several quarters and the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we have recorded favorable changes in accounting estimates resulting in net increases in our revenues, it is possible that future adjustments may be less favorable and may result in net decreases in our revenues, which would adversely affect our results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we did not make any significant adjustments to our revenue estimates for prior periods. Increased competition, including from competitors replicating our key service offerings in the future and the failure to provide a higher quality of service than that of our competitors could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The laboratory services industry generally is intensely competitive both in terms of service and price and it continues to undergo significant consolidation, permitting larger clinical laboratory service providers to increase 21 Table of Contents cost efficiencies and change service levels, resulting in more intense competition. Most of our existing competitors and many potential competitors have substantially greater financial, selling, logistical and laboratory resources, more experience in dealing with third party payors for the services we provide and greater market penetration, purchasing power and marketing budgets, as well as more experience in providing diagnostic services. As a specialized diagnostic service provider, we rely extensively on our high quality of service to attract and retain community-based hem/oncs and other healthcare professionals as our customers at the expense of our larger competitors. We compete primarily on the basis of the quality of testing, reporting and information systems, reliability in patient sample transport, reputation in the medical community and access to our highly qualified hempaths. For example, we generally provide treating hem/oncs with telephonic access on an almost real-time basis to the specific hempath that generates a report and analysis on the specific patient. Our failure to provide services superior to the laboratories with which we compete could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Because we do not rely on our intellectual property portfolio to impede others from copying our business, there are no significant barriers to entry into our business and new or existing laboratories could replicate our key service offerings and business model and enter our market to compete with us with relatively low upfront investments, which would adversely affect our business and prospects. We are highly dependent on Cartesian Medical Group, Inc. for the services of our hempaths and any significant difficulties in recruiting or retaining these highly trained hempaths could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on the availability of hempaths, who provide professional services to us through Cartesian and we would be unable to provide our specialized diagnostic services without them. Cartesian is actively recruiting additional hempaths to work with us as we continue to expand our business. There are currently approximately 1,500 hempaths licensed in the United States and only approximately 75 new hempaths receive board certification in the United States each year. Our PSA with Cartesian is automatically renewed on a yearly basis but may be terminated by us at any time on 60 days’ prior written notice and either party may terminate the PSA upon the other party’s uncured material breach. Should Cartesian be unable to retain the hempaths that provide professional services to us, or if Cartesian fails in its efforts to recruit additional hempaths to provide us professional services, our ability to maintain and grow our business may be impaired. In addition, Cartesian may be required to offer higher compensation to hempaths in connection with recruitment and retention efforts and these increased compensation expenses would be reflected in the amount we pay to Cartesian through the PSA. We may be unable to recover these increased expenses through price increases or reimbursements for our diagnostic services. We have not used the services of any hempaths from any entity other than Cartesian and we do not believe there is another organization operating in our geographic region that would be able to provide us with comparable professional services. In addition, if Cartesian were to experience significant turnover in hempaths, our ability to perform our specialized diagnostic services and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. We must hire and retain qualified sales representatives to grow our sales. Our ability to retain existing customers for our specialized diagnostic services and attract new customers is dependent upon retaining existing field sales representatives and hiring new field sales representatives, which is an expensive and time-consuming process. We face intense competition for qualified sales personnel and our inability to hire or retain an adequate number of field sales representatives could limit our ability to maintain or expand our business and increase sales. Even if we are able to increase our sales force, our new sales personnel may not commit the necessary resources or provide sufficient high quality service and attention to hem/oncs to effectively market and sell our specialized diagnostic services. If we are unable to maintain and expand our marketing and sales networks or if our sales personnel do not perform to our high standards, we may be unable to 22 Table of Contents maintain or grow our existing business and our results of operations and financial condition will likely suffer accordingly. Our sales personnel have developed and maintain close relationships with a number of healthcare professionals. In particular, our sales force focuses its efforts on developing relationships with community-based hem/oncs and other healthcare professionals who are decision makers in their offices. Our sales depend on the use of our specialized diagnostic services by these community-based hem/oncs and other healthcare professionals and successful marketing of our services depends on educating these community-based hem/oncs and other healthcare professionals as to the distinctive characteristics, benefits, high quality and value of our specialized diagnostic services compared to those of our competitors. If a sales representative ceases employment, we risk the loss of customer goodwill based on the impairment of relationships developed between the sales representative and the healthcare professionals for whom the sales representative was responsible. This is particularly a risk if the representative goes to work for a competitor, as the healthcare professionals that are our customers may choose to use a competitor’s services based on their relationship with the departed sales representative. If we fail to attract and retain key management and other personnel, we may be unable to successfully maintain or develop our business. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, laboratory and other personnel. For example, we are highly dependent on the operational and financial expertise of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, particularly Tina S. Nova, Ph.D., our president and chief executive officer, could impede our growth. In particular, our executive officers currently perform most of our policy-making functions, are in charge of our principal business units, divisions and functions and are solely responsible for most of our key decisions. We are also dependent on our key employees and consultants, who are important to our business and assist and support our executive officers in implementing and executing these officers’ key decisions. If we lose any of our executive officers or key employees and consultants, other of these individuals may be required to fulfill his or her duties and spend time finding a replacement. We may not be able to find suitable replacements and our business may be harmed as a result. We do not maintain “key woman” or “key man” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. We employ our executive officers and key employees on an at-will basis and their employment can be terminated by them or us at any time. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. In addition to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the healthcare industry, the San Diego area is characterized by a high cost of living, particularly for housing. As such, we could have difficulty attracting experienced personnel to our company and may be required to expend significant financial resources in our employee recruitment and retention efforts. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our operational objectives, our revenue growth and our ability to implement our business strategy. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth and our growth rate may decline. Our revenues have grown to $116.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 up from $59.3 million and $24.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This growth has put significant pressure on our systems and operations. As of December 31, 2008, we employed 281 employees, including Cartesian employees and seven part-time employees. Our current organization, and our systems and facilities currently in place, may not be adequate to support our future growth. In order to effectively manage our operations and any significant growth, we may need to: • scale our internal infrastructure, including expansion of our laboratory facilities, while continuing to provide quality services on a timely basis to community-based hem/oncs and other customers; 23 Table of Contents • maintain and strengthen our relationships with our hem/onc customers as we increase the number of our sales and marketing personnel and increase our presence in the various geographic markets we serve; • attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees and consultants, including sales personnel, hempaths, CSCs, scientists, laboratory technicians and administrative employees, to handle the increasing number of tests we are requested to conduct; • manage our relationship with Federal Express to ensure its ability to handle increasing sample transport and deliveries; • manage our relationships with third parties for the provision of certain services and the manufacture and supply of certain test kits, reagents and other laboratory materials; • continue to enhance our compliance and quality assurance systems; and • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures. If we are not able to successfully implement the tasks necessary to further expand our operations, our business, including the quality of our services and our billing, reimbursement, compliance and quality assurance systems, our results of operations and our financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, as our revenues grow, our period over period growth rate will likely decline. We are continuing to expand our infrastructure by establishing additional laboratory space and implementing additional backup systems, which, among other things, could divert our resources and may cause our margins to suffer. In February 2008, we entered into a two-year lease (with three one-year extension options) for additional office space in Carlsbad, California to house our expanding billing and customer service departments. In connection with the April 2008 lease noted below, the February 2008 lease was terminated in August 2008. In April 2008, we entered into a six-year operating lease beginning January 1, 2009 for additional office space in Carlsbad, California. The lease contains one 60-month extension option and is subject to annual rent increases. In September 2008, we amended the lease to include an additional suite. Our existing building is now fully dedicated to clinical laboratory applications after the administration functions moved in November 2008 to our new headquarters facility under this lease. Additionally, we will likely continue our laboratory expansion efforts associated with our California-based operations through the end of 2009. Although all our facilities are in close proximity, there may be logistical issues that arise by virtue of separating these departments from the rest of our operations, including issues related to information systems integration and connectivity speed. Moreover, in order to better serve our expanding nationwide customer base, to create a backup to our current laboratory facility and to gain additional referrals for our specialized diagnostic services, we intend to replicate our current California-based operations in a geographically different location. Although we currently anticipate selecting a site for our new facility in late-2009, in order to establish the new laboratory facility, we will be required to spend considerable time and resources securing adequate space, constructing the facility, obtaining the federal, state and local certifications required by all applicable laws and regulations, recruiting and training employees and establishing the additional operational, logistical and administrative infrastructure necessary to support a geographically different second facility. Even after the new laboratory facility is operational, it may take time for us to derive the same economies of scale as in our existing facility. Moreover, we may suffer reduced economies of scale in our existing laboratory facility as we seek to balance the amount of work allocated to each laboratory facility. Similarly, we may invest in new backup systems in order to prevent 24 Table of Contents the interruption in our current systems, which may be costly and would take time and resources to implement. Each expansion of our facilities or systems could divert resources, including the focus of our management, away from our current business. In addition, each expansion of our facilities may increase our costs and potentially decrease operating margins, both of which would, individually or in the aggregate, negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial, sales, marketing and other infrastructure in order to adequately manage our business and provide support for our services. In addition, to the extent our service levels in our existing or new facilities suffer, this may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our Carlsbad facilities become inoperable, we will be unable to perform our specialized diagnostic services and our business will be harmed. We currently do not have redundant laboratory or administrative facilities. We perform all of our diagnostic testing in our laboratory facility located in Carlsbad, California. Carlsbad is situated on or near earthquake fault lines and is located in an area that has experienced severe wildfires during the past several years. In addition, we do not have redundant systems for all of our business processes. Our facilities, the equipment we use to perform our tests and services and our other business process systems would be costly to replace and could require substantial time to repair or replace. The facilities may be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or people-made disasters, including earthquakes, wildfires, floods, acts of terrorism or other criminal activities, infectious disease outbreaks and power outages, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to perform our tests for some period. In addition, such events may temporarily interrupt our ability to receive specimens or materials from our suppliers and to have access to our various systems necessary to operate our business. For example, in late 2007 we experienced a power outage at our Carlsbad laboratory facility and the evacuation of our facilities as a result of severe wildfires. Although our backup generator and other backup procedures and systems allowed us to continue our operations without material interruption, we cannot assure you that similar incidents will not adversely affect our business in the future. The inability to perform our tests and services would result in the loss of customers and harm our reputation and we may be unable to regain those customers in the future. Our insurance carriers and insurance policies covering damage to our property and the disruption of our business may become financially unstable or may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In the event our laboratory facility is damaged or destroyed, we would need to engage a third party to perform laboratory testing services on our behalf. In order to rely on a third party to perform these testing services, we could only use another facility with established state licensure and CLIA accreditation. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find another CLIA-certified facility, or that another laboratory would be willing to perform the necessary tests for us on commercially reasonable terms. Finding a new laboratory that meets the required state licensure and CLIA accreditation standards or developing new systems necessary to operate our business would be time-consuming and costly and result in delays in our ability to provide our specialized diagnostic services or to provide the same level of quality in our services as we currently provide, which would harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We incur financial risk related to collections. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from specialized diagnostic services for which we bill on a fee-for-service basis. Billing for diagnostic services is a complex process and we bill many different payors such as insurance companies, governmental payor programs and patients, each of which has different billing requirements. Although we have experienced favorable trends in the collection of accounts receivable and related reductions to our provisions for doubtful accounts, we face risks in our collection efforts, including potential write-offs of doubtful accounts and long collection cycles for accounts receivable, including reimbursements by third party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental payor programs, hospitals, private insurance plans and managed care organizations. As a result of the current economic climate, we may face increased risks in our collection efforts, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, increases in 25 Table of Contents write-offs of doubtful accounts (particularly in response to a recent increase in personal bankruptcies), delays in receiving payments or potential retroactive adjustments and penalties resulting from audits by payors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had an allowance for doubtful accounts of $4.1 million and $1.6 million, respectively, which we reduced by $664,000 and $859,000, respectively, for write-offs, net of recoveries. We or our suppliers and/or manufacturers may be subject to litigation relating to, among other things, payor and customer disputes, regulatory actions, professional liability, intellectual property, employee-related matters, product liability and other potential claims, which could adversely affect our business. We or our suppliers and/or manufacturers may become subject in the ordinary course of business to material litigation related to, among other things, payor or customer disputes, professional liability, regulatory actions, intellectual property, employee-related matters, product liability and other potential claims, as well as investigations by governmental agencies and governmental payors relating to the specialized diagnostic services we provide. Responding to these types of claims, regardless of their merit, could result in significant expense and divert the time, attention and resources of our management. Legal actions could result in substantial monetary damages as well as significant harm to our reputation with community-based hem/oncs and other healthcare professionals and with payors, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We, Cartesian and/or our hempaths may be sued, or may be added as an additional party, under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our hempaths, laboratory personnel, CSCs, and other employees and consultants, including but not limited to being sued for misdiagnoses or liabilities arising from the professional interpretations of test results. We, Cartesian and/or our hempaths may periodically become involved as defendants in medical malpractice and other lawsuits and are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damage awards, in particular in connection with our COMPASS service offering. Our hempaths are insured for medical malpractice risks on a claims-made basis under traditional professional liability insurance policies. We also maintain general liability insurance that covers certain claims to which we may be subject. Our general insurance does not cover all potential liabilities that may arise, including governmental fines and penalties that we may be required to pay, liabilities we may incur under indemnification agreements and certain other uninsurable losses that we may suffer. It is possible that future claims will not be covered by or will exceed the limits of our insurance coverage. We and the suppliers and manufacturers of the diagnostic tests we perform, which are critical to the performance of our specialized diagnostic services, may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that their diagnostic tests infringe the intellectual property rights of these third parties. In such event, we could no longer have access to, we may be prohibited from marketing or performing, or we may be subject to liabilities or litigations relating to such diagnostic tests unless we obtained a license from such third party. A license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to license diagnostic tests that are important to our specialized diagnostic services, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of third parties for manufacture and supply of all of our laboratory instruments, tests and materials, including consumables, and we may not be able to find replacement suppliers or manufacturers in a timely manner in the event of any disruption, which could adversely affect our business. We rely on third parties for the manufacture and supply of all of our laboratory instruments, equipment and materials, including consumables such as reagents and disposable test kits, that we need to perform our specialized diagnostic services and rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain laboratory materials and some of the laboratory equipment with which we perform our diagnostic services. We do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers and manufacturers that commit them to supply equipment and materials to us. 26 Table of Contents Certain of our suppliers provide us with analyte specific reagents, or ASRs, which serve as building blocks in the diagnostic tests we conduct in our laboratory. These suppliers are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and must comply with federal regulations related to the manufacture and distribution of ASR products. Because we cannot ensure the actual production or manufacture of such critical equipment and materials, or the ability of our suppliers to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, we may be subject to significant delays caused by interruption in production or manufacturing. If any of our third party suppliers or manufacturers were to become unwilling or unable to provide this equipment or these materials in required quantities or on our required timelines, we would need to identify and acquire acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. While we have developed alternate sourcing strategies for the equipment and materials we use, we cannot be certain that these strategies will be effective and even if we were to identify other suppliers and manufacturers for the equipment and materials we need to perform our specialized diagnostic services, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into agreements with such suppliers and manufacturers or otherwise obtain such items on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we encounter delays or difficulties in securing necessary laboratory equipment or materials, including consumables, we would face an interruption in our ability to perform our specialized diagnostic services and experience other disruptions that would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Performance issues, service interruptions or price increases by our shipping carrier could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and harm our reputation and ability to provide our specialized diagnostic services on a timely basis. Expedited, reliable shipping is essential to our operations. One of our marketing strategies entails highlighting the reliability of our point-to-point transport of patient samples. We rely almost exclusively on a single carrier, Federal Express, for reliable and secure point-to-point transport of patient bone marrow and other samples to our laboratory and enhanced tracking of these patient samples. Federal Express has tailored some of its systems and processes to meet our specific needs in providing high quality services to our hem/onc customers. In our specialty diagnostic field, patient samples more often than not include bone marrow biopsies, which are both technically difficult for a physician to obtain and extremely uncomfortable for patients to endure. Should Federal Express encounter delivery performance issues such as loss, damage or destruction of a sample, it would be difficult to replace our patient samples in a timely manner and such occurrences may damage our reputation and lead to decreased referrals from physicians for our specialized diagnostic services and increased cost and expense to our business. In addition, any significant increase in shipping rates or fuel surcharges could adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations. Similarly, strikes, severe weather, natural disasters or other service interruptions by delivery services we use would adversely affect our ability to receive and process patient samples on a timely basis. If Federal Express or we were to terminate our relationship, we would be required to find another party to provide expedited, reliable point-to-point transport of our patient samples. There are only a few other providers of such nationwide transport services and there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into arrangements with such other providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Finding a new provider of transport services would be time-consuming and costly and result in delays in our ability to provide our specialized diagnostic services. Even if we were to enter into an arrangement with such provider, there can be no assurance that they will provide the same level of quality in transport services currently provided to us by Federal Express. If the new provider does not provide the required quality and reliable transport services, it could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Proprietary trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and unpatented expertise are very important to our business. We use numerous trademarks and service marks to identify the products and services we offer, some of which have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, and others of which are 27 Table of Contents undergoing USPTO review. In addition, we are seeking registration of the name Genoptix in additional fields of use. We cannot guarantee that any of the trademarks or service marks for which we have applied for registration will be granted. Moreover, should a third party challenge one or more of our trademarks or service marks, we cannot guarantee that we would prevail in that challenge. Despite the use of our trademarks or service marks in connection with our services, we are not the sole person entitled to use the names COMPASS or CHART in every category in the United States. For example, third parties have registered the name COMPASS in the United States in the medical field and other categories. None of these third parties has contacted us with a claim that our COMPASS trademark infringes their rights. We cannot guarantee that a third party with rights in a COMPASS or CHART trademark, or in another trademark we use, will not assert those rights against us in the future, by opposing one of our trademark applications, petitioning to cancel one of our trademark registrations, or filing suit against us for trademark infringement seeking damages and/or an injunction to stop us from using our mark. Although we have taken steps to protect our trade secrets and unpatented expertise, including entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties and confidential information and inventions agreements with employees, consultants and advisors, third parties may still be able to obtain this information or we may be unable to protect our rights. There can be no assurance that binding agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or unpatented expertise is expensive and time-consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and expertise and we would not be able to prevent their use. If technological innovation or prophylactic treatments were to reduce the need to conduct diagnostic testing on blood and bone marrow samples or allow our customers or other third parties to perform specialized diagnostic services similar to ours, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In order for hem/oncs to arrive at the correct diagnosis, choose or modify appropriate therapeutic regimens and monitor the effectiveness of these regimens, they currently require highly specialized diagnostic services that analyze blood and bone marrow samples. We focus our diagnostic efforts primarily on specific malignancies of the blood and bone marrow. Serial blood and bone marrow examinations are often performed to follow the progress of the disease and the patient’s response to therapy. Technological innovations or other advances in medicine that result in the creation of enhanced diagnostic tools may enable other clinical laboratories, hospitals, physicians or other medical providers, or patients, to provide specialized diagnostic services similar to ours in a more patient-friendly, efficient or cost-effective manner than is currently possible. Advances in technology or medicine may also result in a cure or prophylactic treatment for some of the diseases on which we focus which could reduce or eliminate the need to obtain and analyze bone marrow samples. This could substantially reduce or eliminate our market opportunity and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Failure in our information systems, or IS, telephone or other systems could significantly disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and financial condition. IS and telephone systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including laboratory testing, sales, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. The success of our business depends on the ability to obtain, process, analyze, maintain and manage this data and periodically enhance our IS, telephone and other systems to facilitate the continued growth of our business. Our management relies on our information systems because: • patient samples must be received, tracked and processed on a timely basis; • test results must be monitored and reported on a timely basis; 28 Table of Contents • billings and collections for all customers must be managed efficiently and accurately; • third party ancillary billing services require proper tracking and reporting; • pricing and other information related to our services is needed by our sales force and other personnel in a timely manner to conduct business; • centralized procurement and test inventory management systems are required for effective test inventory management; • regulatory compliance requires proper tracking and reporting; and • proper recordkeeping is required for operating our business, regulatory compliance, managing employee compensation and other personnel matters. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if, among other things: • our IS, telephone or other systems are interrupted or fail for any extended length of time; • services relating to our IS, telephone or other systems are not kept current; • our IS, telephone or other systems become unable to support expanded operations and increased levels of business; • services provided by one or more of our vendors fail to operate within the expected technical parameters; • information is lost or unable to be restored or processed; or • information security is breached. Our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our IS, telephone and other systems, which are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, computer viruses, natural disasters and physical or electronic break-ins. We are especially vulnerable to losses of patient information, which could result in violations of federal and state privacy laws. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent breakdowns in our IS and telephone systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to process test orders, deliver test results or perform tests in a timely manner or that cause us to lose patient information could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience difficulty in identifying, acquiring or in-licensing and integrating third parties’ products, services, businesses and technologies into our current infrastructure or otherwise expanding our service offerings and we may not be able to successfully execute on and integrate such products, services, businesses or technologies, which could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. An important part of our business strategy is to opportunistically expand our service offerings and pursue additional technologies, collaborations and acquisitions that will enable us to accelerate the implementation of our strategic plan and to increase the number of customers we serve and the specialized diagnostic services we provide to those customers, including by way of investments in other companies, licensing of technology, co-development arrangements, collaborations, asset purchases and other similar transactions. For example, we currently outsource select specialized services that we offer and we may in the future seek to acquire the necessary capabilities to provide these services internally. Although we are not currently a party to any other agreements or commitments and we have no understandings with respect to any such opportunities, we may seek to expand our services and technologies, on an opportunistic basis and as resources allow, by acquiring or in-licensing products, services, businesses or technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our business and growth plans. Future acquisitions or in-licensing of products, services, businesses or technologies, however, may entail numerous operational and financial risks including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention; 29 Table of Contents • the availability of financing to pay for these transactions; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for these transactions; • higher than expected acquisition, in-licensing and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • difficulties in and costs of combining the operations and personnel of any acquired or in-licensed products, services, businesses or technologies with our operations and personnel; • increased regulatory, compliance and litigation risk; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired or in-licensed products, services, businesses or technologies due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired or in-licensed products, services, businesses or technologies. Finally, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions, in-licensing or collaboration opportunities that are never completed, acquired by others, or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to successfully expand our service offerings to our community hem/onc customers and successfully provide them with new technologies and innovations. Any of these matters could disrupt our business and adversely affect our growth prospects, results of operations and financial condition, and reputation with our customers. We use biological and hazardous materials that require considerable expertise and expense for handling, storage or disposal and may result in claims against us. We work with hazardous materials, including chemicals, biological agents and compounds, blood and bone marrow samples and other human tissue, that could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. Our operations also produce hazardous and biohazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive and current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair business efforts. If we do not comply with applicable regulations, we may be subject to fines and penalties. In addition, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials or wastes. Our general liability insurance and/or workers’ compensation insurance policy may not cover damages and fines arising from biological or hazardous waste exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources and our operations could be suspended or otherwise adversely affected. We have a limited operating history and we are unable to predict with certainty whether we will be able to continue our revenue growth and become increasingly profitable. We are a relatively early stage company with a limited operating history. We did not commence selling our specialized diagnostic services until the third quarter of 2004 and only became profitable in the first quarter of 2007. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer history of successfully commercializing specialized diagnostic services. Although we incurred losses in each full fiscal year from inception to 2006, as of December 31, 2008, we had reduced our accumulated deficit to $10.6 million. Although we have continued to increase our revenues and profitability, there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue our revenue growth and maintain or increase our profitability. It is possible that we may incur operating losses in the future as we expand our infrastructure, increase selling expenses and increase general and administrative expenses to comply with public company obligations or if we are unable to continue to maintain or increase our revenues or control expenses. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our growth prospects, sales and marketing and other efforts 30 Table of Contents and other factors, we are unable to predict with certainty whether we will be able to maintain our strong revenue growth and remain profitable or predict the extent of our future profitability or losses. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their other clients or former employers to us. In addition to our employees, we engage the services of consultants to assist us with certain aspects of our business. Many of these employees or consultants were previously employed at or may have previously been or are currently providing consulting services to, other clinical laboratories or diagnostics companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees or consultants have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers or their former or current customers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Relating to Regulatory and Compliance Matters We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may, directly or indirectly, reduce our revenues, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and harm our business. The clinical laboratory testing industry is highly regulated and there can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly and adversely in the future. In particular, there is risk of healthcare reform or other legislative activity in 2009, which may result in changes in the regulatory or payor environment that may adversely affect our business. Areas of the regulatory environment that may affect our ability to conduct business include, without limitation: • federal and state laws applicable to billing and claims payment and/or regulatory agencies enforcing those laws and regulations; • federal and state laboratory anti-mark-up laws; • federal and state anti-kickback laws; • federal and state false claims laws; • federal and state self-referral and financial inducement laws, including the federal physician anti-self-referral law, or the Stark Law; • coverage and reimbursement levels by Medicare, Medicaid, other governmental payors and private insurers; • restrictions on reimbursements for our services; • federal and state laws governing laboratory testing, including CLIA; • federal and state laws governing the development, use and distribution of diagnostic medical tests known as “home brews”; • the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and analogous state laws; • federal and state regulation of privacy, security and electronic transactions; • state laws regarding prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine; • state laws regarding prohibitions on fee-splitting; • federal, state and local laws governing the handling and disposal of medical and hazardous waste; 31 Table of Contents • Occupational Safety and Health Administration rules and regulations; and • changes to other federal, state and local laws, including tax laws. These laws and regulations are extremely complex and in many instances, there are no significant regulatory or judicial interpretations of these laws and regulations. While we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations, a determination that we have violated these laws or regulations, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws or regulations, would adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a significant change in any of these laws or regulations may require us to change our business model in order to maintain compliance with these laws or regulations, which could reduce our revenues or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse laws that govern, among other things, sales and marketing, billing and claims processing practices, we could face substantial penalties and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are subject to various state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including, but not limited to: • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under governmental payor programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; • the federal False Claims Act that prohibits individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent; • HIPAA, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; • the Stark Law, which prohibits a physician from making a referral to an entity for certain designated health services reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid if the physician (or a member of the physician’s family) has a financial relationship with the entity and which also prohibits the submission of any claim for reimbursement for designated health services furnished pursuant to a prohibited referral; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third party payor, including commercial insurers. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a clinical laboratory’s participation in or reimbursement from governmental payor programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Although we endeavor to comply in all material respects with these rules and regulations, our sales and marketing, billing and claims processing practices may not, in all cases, meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection or exemptions from liability under these laws. For example, in most cases, patients who utilize service providers that are not participants in a preferred provider network are subject to increased financial obligations in the form of greater coinsurance or copayment requirements. For approximately half of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we were generally subject to reimbursement as a non-contracting provider. In order to maintain our competitiveness with other clinical laboratories, except as required by applicable laws, we frequently accept third party insurance payment as payment in full and, in turn, waive all or a part of a patient’s coinsurance obligations such that the patient’s financial burden is no greater than if he or she would have selected an in-network provider. A successful challenge to our practice of accepting third party insurance payments as payment in full under the laws discussed above could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 32 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with governmental payor regulations could result in our being excluded from participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental payor programs, which would decrease our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Reimbursement from Medicare and Medicaid accounted for approximately 38%, 38% and 43% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Medicare program is administered by CMS, which, like the states that administer their respective state Medicaid programs, imposes extensive and detailed requirements on diagnostic services providers, including, but not limited to, rules that govern how we structure our relationships with physicians, how and when we submit reimbursement claims and how we provide our specialized diagnostic services. Our failure to comply with applicable Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental payor rules could result in our inability to participate in a governmental payor program, our returning funds already paid to us, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties and/or limitations on the operational function of our laboratory. If we were unable to receive reimbursement under a governmental payor program, a substantial portion of our revenues would be lost, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be harmed by future interpretations of clinical laboratory mark-up prohibitions. Our laboratory currently uses the services of outside reference laboratories to provide certain complementary laboratory services to those services provided directly by our laboratory. Although Medicare policies do not prohibit certain independent-laboratory-to-independent-laboratory referrals and subsequent mark-up for services, California and other states have rules and regulations that prohibit or limit the mark-up of these laboratory-to-laboratory services. A challenge to our charge-setting procedures under these rules and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be harmed from the loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, the law or regulations of the CLIA or those of other state or local agencies. We are subject to CLIA, which is administered by CMS and extends federal oversight to virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring that they be certified by the federal government or by a federally approved accreditation agency. CLIA is designed to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. The sanction for failure to comply with CLIA requirements may be suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory’s CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. If a laboratory is certified as “high complexity” under CLIA, the laboratory may obtain ASRs, which are used to develop in-house diagnostic tests known as “home brews.” We received our CLIA accreditation certificate as a “high complexity” laboratory in mid-2004. To renew this certificate, we are subject to survey and inspection every two years as well as the possibility of unannounced surveys at any time. Our CLIA accreditation was renewed in February 2009 and expires on February 3, 2011. We are also subject to regulation of laboratory operations under state clinical laboratory laws. State clinical laboratory laws may require that laboratories and/or laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls or require maintenance of certain records. For example, California requires that we maintain a license to conduct testing in California and California law establishes standards for our day-to-day laboratory operations, including the training and skill required of laboratory personnel and quality control. Certain other states, including Florida, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, each require that we hold licenses to test specimens from patients residing in those states and additional states may require similar licenses in the future. Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant fines and the suspension or loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents Certain of our specialized diagnostic tests take advantage of the “home-brew” exception from the FDA review and any changes to the FDA’s policies with respect to this exception could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Clinical laboratory diagnostic tests that are developed and validated by a laboratory for use in examinations the laboratory performs itself are called “home brew” tests. The FDA maintains that it has authority to regulate the development and use of “home brews” as diagnostic medical devices under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act but to date has decided not to exercise its authority with respect to most “home brew” tests as a matter of enforcement discretion. A substantial portion of our specialized diagnostic tests is “home brew” tests for which we have not obtained the FDA premarket clearance or approval. In addition, manufacturers and suppliers of ASRs, which we obtain for use in our “home brews,” are required to register with the FDA, to conform manufacturing operations to the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and to comply with certain reporting and other recordkeeping requirements. The FDA regularly considers the application of additional regulatory controls over the sale of ASRs and the development and use of “home brews” by laboratories such as ours. As a result of recent industry events, it is possible the FDA may look at the sale and use of “home brew” tests with heightened scrutiny or modify their regulatory approach with respect to “home brew” tests. We cannot predict the extent of the FDA’s future regulation and policies with respect to “home brew” tests and there can be no assurance that the FDA will not require us to obtain premarket clearance or approval for certain of the diagnostic tests that we perform. Any such premarket clearance requirements could restrict or delay our ability to provide our specialized diagnostic services and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Failure to comply with the HIPAA security and privacy regulations and other state regulations may increase our operational costs. The HIPAA privacy and security regulations establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to the uses and disclosures of personal health information, or PHI, by health plans and healthcare providers, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic PHI. The regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including: • the circumstances under which uses and disclosures of PHI are permitted or required without a specific authorization by the patient, including but not limited to treatment purposes, activities to obtain payments for services and healthcare operations activities; • a patient’s rights to access, amend and receive an accounting of certain disclosures of PHI; • the content of notices of privacy practices for PHI; and • administrative, technical and physical safeguards required of entities that use or receive PHI electronically. We have implemented policies and procedures related to compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security regulations, as required by law. The privacy regulations establish a uniform federal “floor” and do not supersede state laws that are more stringent. Therefore, we are required to comply with both federal privacy regulations and varying state privacy laws. The federal privacy regulations restrict our ability to use or disclose patient identifiable laboratory data, without patient authorization, for purposes other than payment, treatment or healthcare operations (as defined by HIPAA), except for disclosures for various public policy purposes and other permitted purposes outlined in the privacy regulations. The privacy and security regulations provide for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of PHI, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. Although the HIPAA statute and regulations do not expressly provide for a private right of damages, we also could incur damages under state laws to private parties for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information. Our business could be materially harmed by future interpretation or implementation of state laws regarding prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine. The manner in which licensed physicians can be organized to perform and bill for medical services is governed by state laws and regulations. Under the laws of some states, including California, business 34 Table of Contents corporations generally are not permitted to employ physicians or to own corporations that employ physicians or to otherwise exercise control over the medical judgments or decisions of physicians. All of the hempaths that we utilize in connection with providing our specialized diagnostic services are employed by Cartesian. Cartesian is a California professional corporation formed for the purpose of providing professional medical services in conjunction with the diagnostic services that we provide. On December 31, 2005, we entered into the PSA with Cartesian, pursuant to which these hempaths provide professional services to us. Prior to that time, we employed these hempaths, which could result in the potential assertion by regulatory authorities that we were engaged in the corporate practice of medicine. We believe that we currently are in compliance in all material respects with the laws governing the corporate practice of medicine in California. If regulatory authorities or other parties were to assert that we were engaged in the corporate practice of medicine currently or prior to December 31, 2005, or if California laws governing the corporate practice of medicine were to change, we could be required to restructure our contractual and other arrangements and we and/or our hempaths could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition, the provision of our specialized diagnostic services, which rely heavily on the professional services provided by our hempaths, could be interrupted or suspended, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Finances and Capital Requirements Negative conditions in the global credit markets and financial services and other industries may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio or may otherwise adversely affect our business. All of our investment securities are classified as available-for-sale and therefore reported on the balance sheet at market value. Our investment securities consist of corporate debt and government-sponsored enterprise securities and a single auction rate security, or ARS. As of December 31, 2008, we held a single ARS with a cost basis of $5.0 million classified as a long-term investment security. ARS are collateralized debt instruments with long-term contractual maturities that are structured with short-term holding periods. They provide liquidity through a Dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals, typically every 7 to 35 days. The length of each holding period is determined at the original issuance of the ARS. We can sell at each auction at par, assuming there are buyers for the ARS at such auction. In order for the auction to be successful, demand in the marketplace must meet or exceed the supply. If an auction is unsuccessful, the interest rate on the security resets at a predetermined auction failure rate. An investor can continue to hold the investment security until the next auction date or attempt to sell in the secondary market, usually at a sizable discount. The ARS in our investment securities portfolio consists of debt issued by a municipality that is also underwritten by an insurance agency. The auction began failing in February 2008 when sell orders exceeded buy orders at the auction dates. As of December 31, 2008, the security is rated A2 by Moody’s Investors Service and AA by Standard & Poor’s based on the underwriter’s guarantee. The last auction occurred on September 10, 2008, prior to the bankruptcy of the broker/dealer that managed the auction. A new broker/dealer has yet to be identified. The funds associated with this failed auction will not be accessible until the issuer restructures the debt, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the ARS matures in 2038. As such, we have recorded a temporary impairment of approximately $1.2 million as of December 31, 2008. In the meantime, the issuer continues to pay the interest as scheduled and shows no indication that it will be unable to meet its current obligations. We do not currently need to access these funds for operational purposes for the foreseeable future. Based on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment securities and our expected operating cash flows, we do not anticipate that the temporary illiquidity of this investment will affect our ability to execute our current business plan. In addition to the continuing deterioration in the global credit markets, the financial services industry and the U.S. capital markets, the U.S. economy as a whole have been experiencing a period of substantial turmoil and 35 Table of Contents uncertainty characterized by unprecedented intervention by the U.S. federal government and the failure, bankruptcy, or sale of various financial and other institutions. The impact of these events on our business and the severity of the current economic crisis is uncertain. It is possible that the current crisis in the global credit markets, the U.S. capital markets, the financial services industry and the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, vendors and prospects as well as our liquidity and financial condition. More specifically, our insurance carriers and insurance policies covering all aspects of our business may become financially unstable or may not be sufficient to cover any or all of our losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all, which may cause dilution to our existing stockholders or require us to be subject to certain restrictions. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund the continued expansion of our business. Although we have become profitable over the past two years, our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. To date, our sources of cash have been primarily limited to our initial public offering, private placements of preferred stock and debt, and more recently cash flow from operations. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts of capital to grow our business. To fund such growth, we may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings or debt financings. We do not know if we will be able to continue to generate cash flow from operations or if we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all (particularly in light of the difficult current financing environment and weak economic conditions). If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to maintain or grow our business at the rate that we currently anticipate and respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated capital requirements, or we may be required to reduce operating expenses, which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership in our company will be diluted. We expect to continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management expects to continue to devote substantial time to public company compliance programs. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, in the past several years have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls, changes in corporate governance practices and substantial changes in executive compensation disclosure. The SEC and other regulators have continued to adopt new rules and regulations and make additional changes to existing regulations that require our compliance. Our management and other personnel continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance programs and other programs related to being a public company, such as investor relations and monitoring of public company reporting obligations. These rules and regulations will continue to cause us to incur significant legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, insurance premiums for public companies continue to increase and it continues to be more difficult and more expensive for us to renew director and officer liability insurance. As a result, we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. In particular, each year we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with Section 404. If we are not able to comply with the ongoing requirements of Section 404, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over 36 Table of Contents financial reporting that are deemed to be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices, or existing taxation rules or practices, may cause adverse unexpected revenue or expense fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices, or a change in existing taxation rules or practices, can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements, taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. For example, in September 2008 the State of California passed a law, effective January 1, 2008, to suspend California net operating losses for two-years pertaining to certain corporations doing business within California. This net operating loss suspension had no impact on our income tax benefit, as reported. However, this does require us to pay income tax associated with our taxable income for the tax years 2008 and 2009, which our California deferred net operating loss otherwise would have reduced. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Our effective tax rate can also be impacted by changes in estimates of prior year items, the outcome of audits by federal, state and foreign jurisdictions and changes in overall levels of income before income tax. Furthermore, changes in accounting rules, such as increased use of fair value measures, changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and the potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, could potentially have a significant effect on our reported results. Risks Relating to the Securities Markets and Investment in Our Common Stock There may not be a viable public market for our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will continue to sustain an active trading market for our stock on The NASDAQ Global Market or any other stock market or how liquid any such market might remain. If an active public market is not sustained, it may be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to them, or at all. Fluctuations in our operating results and market volatility may affect our stock price. The market price of our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which we cannot control, including: • changes in coverage and/or reimbursement guidelines and amounts; • variations in deductible and coinsurance amounts; • changes in regulations affecting the healthcare or diagnostic services industry; • failure to comply with applicable regulations; • changes in the payor mix or the mix or cost of our specialized diagnostic services; • the timing and volume of patient orders and the timing and cost of our sales and marketing campaigns; • changes in contracted status with third party payors; • changes in compensation expense and other expenses that result in changes in our operating results; • increased investigative or enforcement initiatives by governmental and other third party payors; • additions or departures of key personnel; 37 Table of Contents • variations in our quarterly operating results, including the number of business days in each quarter; • seasonality and volume declines due to adverse weather conditions and holidays; • changes in our accounting estimates; • changes in our DSO level; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • announcements of acquisitions or other strategic transactions by us or our competitors; • announcements of new products or services offered by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies or in the broader markets generally; • changes in economic conditions, in the global credit markets and financial services and other industries and the U.S. Federal government response to developments in the economy and such markets and industries; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • uncertainty with respect to the reasons for changes in the trading volume or the market price of our common stock; • any litigation in which we become involved; • fluctuations in security market indices of which we may be included now or in the future; • discussion of us or our stock price by the general media, online investor communities or financial industry or medical press; • changes in federal or state tax laws; and • impairment of any of our assets, including our investment securities. Due to these factors, stockholders may not be able to sell their shares of our common stock at favorable prices or at all. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as amended, both of which became effective upon the completion of our initial public offering, may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. 38 Table of Contents If our executive officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our operations and act in a manner that advances their interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of February 15, 2009, our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more, based on available information, of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 24% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to exert control or influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders and they may act in a manner that advances their interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. As a result of the provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or Rule 144, and Rule 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or Rule 701, substantially all of the outstanding shares of our common stock are available for sale in the public market, subject in the case of shares of our common stock held by affiliates to volume limitations, manner of sale requirements and certain other requirements. We also registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans. As a result, approximately 1.3 million shares are eligible for sale upon the exercise of vested options and release of specific RSUs outstanding as of February 15, 2009. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to our window period and insider trading policies, if applicable. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock and because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be the sole source of gain on an investment in our stock. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, to the extent we incur indebtedness in the future, the loan documents governing such indebtedness may restrict our ability to pay dividends. As a result, we anticipate that capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be our stockholders’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of diagnostic companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because clinical laboratory service companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. If we are not the subject of securities analyst reports or if any securities analyst downgrades our common stock or our sector, the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Securities analysts may publish reports about us or our industry containing information about us that may affect the trading price of our common stock. There are many publicly traded companies active in the healthcare 39 Table of Contents industry, which may mean it will be less likely that we receive analysts’ coverage, which in turn could affect the price of our common stock. In addition, if a securities or industry analyst downgrades the outlook for our stock or one of our competitors’ stocks or chooses to terminate coverage of our stock, the trading price of our common stock may also be negatively affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 