ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and have only recently begun selling our DTN System, both of which make it difficult to predict our future operating results. We were incorporated in December 2000 and shipped our first DTN System in November 2004. Our limited operating history gives you very little basis upon which to evaluate our ability to accomplish our business objectives. In making an investment decision, you should evaluate our business in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in early stages of development, particularly companies in the rapidly changing optical communications market. We may not be successful in addressing these risks. It is difficult to accurately forecast our future revenue and plan expenses accordingly and, therefore, predict our future operating results. We have a history of significant operating losses and may not achieve profitability in the future. We have not achieved profitability. We experienced a net loss of $55.3 million for the year ended December 29, 2007 and a net loss of $89.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. As of December 29, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $369.4 million. We expect to continue to make significant expenditures related to the development of our business, including expenditures to hire additional personnel related to the sales, marketing and development of our DTN System and to maintain and expand our manufacturing facilities and research and development operations. In addition, as a newly public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We will have to sustain significant increased revenue and product gross margins to achieve profitability. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below investor or analyst expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on past results, in particular the recent growth in our revenue, as an indicator of our future performance. Fluctuations in our revenue can lead to even greater fluctuations in our operating results. Our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectations of long-term future revenue. Given relatively fixed operating costs related to our personnel and facilities, any substantial adjustment to our expenses to account for lower levels of revenue will be difficult and take time. Consequently, if our revenue does not meet projected levels, our inventory levels and operating expenses would be high relative to revenue, resulting in additional operating losses. In addition to other risks discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and our operating results include: • fluctuations in demand, sales cycles, product mix and prices for our DTN System and our services; • reductions in customers’ budgets for optical communications purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; 19 Table of Contents • order cancellations or reductions or delays in delivery schedules by our customers; • timeliness of our customers’ payments for their purchases; • the timing of recognizing revenue in any given quarter as a result of software revenue recognition requirements and any changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or new interpretations of existing accounting rules; • our ability to establish vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE for our training, installation and deployment services, in order to be able to recognize revenue once the four revenue recognition criteria have been met, rather than over the period represented by the longest undelivered service period; • readiness of customer sites for installation of our DTN System; • the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors; • availability of third party suppliers to provide contract engineering and installation services for us; • any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including any new entrants, technological advances or substantial discounting of products; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of components we purchase; and • general economic conditions in domestic and international markets. Until we establish VSOE for training and installation and deployment services, all revenue for our bundled products will continue to be deferred and recognized ratably over the longest undelivered service period. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may in the future provide to the market, the price of our common stock may decline substantially. Our gross margin may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and may be adversely affected by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our gross margin fluctuates from period to period and varies by customer and by product specification. Our gross margin may continue to be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • the mix in any period of higher and lower margin products and services; • price discounts negotiated by our customers; • sales volume from each customer during the period; • the period of time over which ratable recognition of revenue occurs; • the amount of equipment we sell for a loss in a given quarter; • charges for excess or obsolete inventory; • changes in the price or availability of components for our DTN System; • our ability to reduce manufacturing costs; • introduction of new products, with initial sales at relatively small volumes with resulting higher product costs; • increased price competition, including competition from low-cost producers in China; and • increased warranty or repair costs. It is likely that the average unit prices of our DTN System will decrease over time in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased negotiated sales discounts, new product introductions by us or our competitors or other factors. In addition, some of our customer contracts contain annual technology discounts 20 Table of Contents that require us to decrease the sales price of our DTN System to these customers. In response, we will likely need to reduce the cost of our DTN System through manufacturing efficiencies, design improvements and cost reductions or change the mix of DTN Systems we sell. If these efforts are not successful or if we are unable to reduce our costs to a greater extent than the reduction in the price of our DTN System, our revenue and gross margin will decline, causing our operating results to decline. Fluctuations in gross margin may make it difficult to manage our business and achieve or maintain profitability. Aggressive business tactics by our competitors may harm our business. Increased competition in our markets has resulted in aggressive business tactics by our competitors, including: • selling at a discount used equipment or inventory that a competitor had previously written down or written off; • announcing competing products prior to market availability combined with extensive marketing efforts; • offering to repurchase our equipment from existing customers; • providing financing, marketing and advertising assistance to customers; and • asserting intellectual property rights. If we fail to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, or if our current or future competitors continue or expand aggressive business tactics, including those described above, demand for our DTN System could decline, we could experience delays or cancellations of customer orders, or we could be required to reduce our prices or increase our expenses. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive and dominated by large corporations, and we may not be able to compete effectively. Competition in the optical communications equipment market is intense, and we expect such competition to increase. A number of very large companies historically have dominated the optical communications network equipment industry. Our competitors include current wavelength division multiplexing suppliers, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Ciena Corporation, Cisco Systems, Ericsson, Fujitsu Limited, Huawei Technologies Co., LM Ericsson Telephone Co., NEC Corporation, Nokia-Siemens Networks, Nortel Networks, Tellabs and ZTE Corporation. Competition in these markets is based on price, functionality, manufacturing capability, pre-existing installation, services, existing business and customer relationships, scalability and the ability of products and breadth and quality of services to meet our customers’ immediate and future network requirements. Other companies have, or may in the future develop, products that are or could be competitive with our DTN System. In particular, if a competitor develops a photonic integrated circuit with similar functionality, our business could be harmed. On June 19, 2006, Nokia and Siemens agreed to combine their communications service provider businesses to create a new joint venture and on November 30, 2006 Alcatel and Lucent announced the completion of their merger. These transactions and any future mergers, acquisitions or combinations between or among our competitors may adversely affect our competitive position by strengthening our competitors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition and technical, financial and marketing resources, greater manufacturing capacity and better established relationships with incumbent carriers and other potential customers than we have. Many of our competitors have more resources to develop or acquire, and more experience in developing or acquiring, new products and technologies and in creating market awareness for those products and technologies. In addition, many of our competitors have the financial resources to offer competitive products at below market pricing levels that could prevent us from competing effectively. Further, many of our competitors have built long-standing relationships with some of our prospective customers and have the ability to provide financing to customers and could, therefore, have an inherent advantage in selling products to those customers. 21 Table of Contents We also compete with low-cost producers in China that can increase pricing pressure on us and a number of smaller companies that provide competition for a specific product, customer segment or geographic market. These competitors often base their products on the latest available technologies. Due to the narrower focus of their efforts, these competitors may achieve commercial availability of their products more quickly than we can and may provide attractive alternatives to our customers. We are dependent on Level 3 Communications and other key customers for a significant portion of our revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, Level 3 or one or more of our key customers would reduce our revenue and harm our operating results. A relatively small number of customers account for a large percentage of our net revenue. In particular, for the year ended December 29, 2007, Level 3 Communications, or Level 3, and Broadwing, which Level 3 acquired in January 2007, together accounted for approximately 47% of our revenue. We expect Level 3 to continue to represent a significant percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our business will be harmed if we do not generate as much revenue as we expect from our key customers, particularly from Level 3, if we experience a loss of Level 3 or of any of our other key customers or if we suffer a substantial reduction in orders from these customers. Our ability to continue to generate revenue from our key customers will depend on our ability to introduce new products that are desirable to these customers at competitive prices, and we may not be successful doing so. Because, in most cases, our sales are made to these customers pursuant to standard purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments, orders may be cancelled or reduced readily. In the event of a cancellation or reduction of an order, we may not have enough time to reduce operating expenses to minimize the effect of the lost revenue on our business. Our operating results will continue to depend on our ability to sell our DTN System to Level 3 and other large customers. Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that result in increased cost of sales, decreased revenue and lower average selling prices and gross margins, all of which would harm our operating results. Substantial changes in the optical communications industry have occurred over the last few years. Many potential customers have confronted static or declining revenue. Many of our customers have substantial debt burdens, many have experienced financial distress, and some have gone out of business or have been acquired by other service providers or announced their withdrawal from segments of the business. Consolidation in the markets in which we compete has resulted in the changes in the structure of the communications networking industry, with greater concentration of purchasing power in a small number of large service providers, cable operators and government agencies. In addition, it has resulted in a substantial reduction in the number of our potential customers. For example, service providers, such as Level 3, have recently acquired a number of other communications service providers, including one of our other customers. This increased concentration among our customer base may also lead to increased negotiating power for our customers and may require us to decrease our average selling prices. Further, many of our customers are large communications service providers that have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. These customers have and may continue to seek advantageous pricing and other commercial terms and may require us to develop additional features in the products we sell to them. We have and may continue to be required to reduce the average selling price, or increase the average cost, of our DTN System in response to these pressures or competitive pricing pressures. To maintain acceptable operating results, we will need to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continue to reduce our costs. We expect the factors described above to continue to affect our business and operating results for an indeterminate period, in several ways, including: • overall capital expenditures by many of our customers or potential customers may be flat or reduced; • we will continue to have only limited ability to forecast the volume and product mix of our sales; 22 Table of Contents • managing expenditures and inventory will be difficult in light of the uncertainties surrounding our business; and • increased competition will enable customers to insist on more favorable terms and conditions for sales, including product discounts, extended payment terms or financing assistance, as a condition of procuring their business. If we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices or increases in our average costs with increased sales volumes and reduced production costs, or if we fail to develop and introduce new products and enhancements on a timely basis, our operating results would be harmed. We are dependent on a single product, and the lack of continued market acceptance of our DTN System would harm our business. Our DTN System accounts for substantially all of our revenue and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As a result, our business could be harmed by: • any decline in demand for our DTN System; • the failure of our existing DTN System to achieve continued market acceptance; • the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our DTN System; • technological innovations or new communications standards that our DTN System does not address; and • our inability to release enhanced versions of our DTN System on a timely basis. If we fail to expand sales of our DTN System into international markets or to sell our products to new types of customers, such as U.S. regional bell operating companies, international postal, telephone and telegraph companies, cable multiple system operators and U.S. competitive local exchange carriers, our revenue will be harmed. We believe that, in order to grow our revenue and business and to build a large and diverse customer base, we must successfully sell our DTN System in international markets and ultimately to U.S. regional bell operating companies, international postal, telephone and telegraph companies, cable multiple system operators and U.S. competitive local exchange carriers. We have limited experience selling our DTN System internationally and to U.S. regional bell operating companies, international postal, telephone and telegraph companies, cable multiple system operators and U.S. competitive local exchange carriers. To succeed in these sales efforts, we believe we must hire additional sales personnel and develop and manage new sales channels through resellers, distributors and systems integrators. If we do not succeed in our efforts to sell to these target markets and customers, the size of our total addressable market will be limited. This, in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could incur significant expense to enforce our rights. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, and our ability to police such misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. This is likely to become an increasingly important issue as we expand our operations and product development into countries that provide a lower level of intellectual property protection. We do not know 23 Table of Contents whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims, and even if patents are issued, they may be contested, circumvented or invalidated. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with a competitive advantage, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies to our own now or in the future. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our DTN System, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult, time consuming and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property could harm our business. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, many leading companies in the optical communications industry, including our competitors, have extensive patent portfolios with respect to optical communications technology. We expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. From time to time, third parties may assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are important to our business or seek to invalidate the proprietary rights that we hold. Competitors or other third parties have, and may continue to assert claims or initiate litigation or other proceedings against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers alleging infringement of their proprietary rights, or seeking to invalidate our proprietary rights, with respect to our DTN System and technology. In the event that we are unsuccessful in defending against any such claims, or any resulting lawsuit or proceedings, we could incur liability for damages and/or have valuable proprietary rights invalidated. Any claim of infringement from a third party, even one without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from running our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our DTN System. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which would require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Competitors and other third parties have and may continue to assert infringement claims against our customers and sales partners. Any of these claims would require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because we generally indemnify our customers and sales partners from claims of infringement of proprietary rights of third parties. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or sales partners, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. On May 9, 2006, we and Level 3 were sued by Cheetah Omni LLC in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas Texarkana Division for alleged infringement of patent No. 6,795,605, and a continuation thereof. On May 16, 2006, Cheetah filed an amended complaint, which requested an order to enjoin the sale of our DTN System, recovery of all damages caused by the alleged infringement and an award of any and all compensatory damages available by law, including damages, attorneys’ fees, associated interest and Cheetah’s costs incurred in the lawsuit. Cheetah’s complaint does not request a specific dollar amount of damages. We are contractually obligated to indemnify Level 3 for damages suffered by Level 3 to the extent our 24 Table of Contents product is found to infringe the rights of a third party, and we have assumed the defense of this matter. On July 20, 2006, we and Level 3 filed an amended response. On November 28, 2006, Cheetah filed a second amended complaint and added patent No. 7,142,347 to the lawsuit. On December 18, 2006, we and Level 3 filed responses to Cheetah’s second amended complaint. On January 30, 2007, Cheetah filed a third amended complaint adding additional assertions of infringement for the two patents in suit. On February 16, 2007, we and Level 3 filed responses to Cheetah’s third amended complaint. On April 11, 2007, we, Level 3 and Cheetah filed a joint motion with the court, agreeing to the following: (1) to stay all proceedings in the lawsuit pending a determination by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as to whether it will reexamine U.S. Patent Nos. 6,795,605 and 7,142,347; and (2) if the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office decides to reexamine either U.S. Patent No. 6,795,605 or 7,142,347, to stay all proceedings in the lawsuit pending final resolution of the reexamination(s) by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. On April 12, 2007, the court granted the motion staying all proceedings in the lawsuit. On June 26, 2007, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ordered reexamination of U.S. Patent No. 6,795,605. On August 1, 2007, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ordered reexamination of U.S. Patent No. 7,142,347. As a result, all proceedings in this lawsuit are stayed until the final resolution of these reexaminations. We do not know when the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office reexamination process will be completed. In the event that Cheetah is successful in obtaining a judgment requiring us to pay damages or obtains an injunction preventing the sale of our DTN System, our business could be harmed. If we fail to accurately forecast demand for our DTN System, we may have excess or insufficient inventory, which may increase our operating costs, decrease our revenue and harm our business. We are required to generate forecasts of future demands for our DTN System several months prior to the scheduled delivery to our prospective customers, which requires us to make significant investments before we know if corresponding revenue will be recognized. If we overestimate demand for our DTN System and increase our inventory in anticipation of customer orders that do not materialize, we will have excess inventory, we will face a risk of obsolescence and significant inventory write-downs and our capital infrastructure will be depreciated across fewer units raising our per unit costs. If we underestimate demand for our DTN System, we will have inadequate inventory, which could slow down or interrupt the manufacturing of our DTN System and result in delays in shipments and our ability to recognize revenue. In addition, we may be unable to meet our supply commitments to customers which could result in a breach of our customer agreements and require us to pay damages. Lead times for materials and components, including application-specific integrated circuits, that we need to order for the manufacturing of our DTN System vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for each component at a given time. Our manufacturing process is very complex and the partial or complete loss of our manufacturing facility, or a reduction in yields or an inability to scale capacity to meet customer demands could harm our business. The manufacturing process of our PIC and our DTN System is technically challenging. In the event that our PIC manufacturing facility was fully or partially destroyed, as a result of fire, water damage, or otherwise, it would limit our ability to produce our DTN System. Because of the complex nature of our PIC manufacturing facility, such loss would take a considerable amount of time to repair or rebuild. The partial or complete loss of our PIC manufacturing facility, or an event causing the interruption in our use of such facility for any extended period of time would cause our business, financial condition and operating results to be harmed. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields and, in some cases, cause production to be suspended. We have had production interruptions and suspensions in the past and may have additional interruptions or suspensions in the future. We expect our manufacturing yield for our next generation PICs to be lower initially and increase as we achieve full production. Poor yields from our PIC manufacturing process or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our DTN System could cause us customer relations and business reputation problems, harming our business and operating results. 25 Table of Contents In addition, our manufacturing facilities may not have adequate capacity to meet the demand for our DTN System or we may not be able to increase our capacity to meet potential increases in demand for our DTN System. Our inability to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet demand, either in our own facilities or through foundry or similar arrangements with third parties, could harm our relationships with customers, our business and our operating results. Product performance problems, including undetected errors in our hardware or software, could harm our business and reputation. The development and production of new products with high technology content, such as our DTN System, is complicated and often involves problems with software, components and manufacturing methods. Complex hardware and software products, such as our DTN System, can often contain undetected errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have experienced errors in the past in connection with our DTN System, including failures due to the receipt of faulty components from our suppliers. We suspect that errors, including potentially serious errors, will be found from time to time in our DTN System. We have only been shipping our DTN System since November 2004, which provides us with limited information on which to judge its reliability. Our DTN System may suffer degradation of performance and reliability over time. If reliability, quality or network monitoring problems develop, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including: • delays in our ability to recognize revenue; • costs associated with fixing software or hardware defects or replacing products; • high service and warranty expenses; • delays in shipments; • high inventory excess and obsolescence expense; • high levels of product returns; • diversion of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts; • delays in collecting accounts receivable; • payment of damages for performance failures; • reduced orders from existing customers; and • declining interest from potential customers. Because we outsource the manufacturing of certain components of our DTN System, we may also be subject to product performance problems as a result of the acts or omissions of these third parties. From time to time, we encounter interruptions or delays in the activation of our DTN System at a customers’ site. These interruptions or delays may result from product performance problems or from issues with installation and activation, some of which are outside our control. If we experience significant interruptions or delays that we cannot promptly resolve, confidence in our DTN System could be undermined, which could cause us to lose customers and fail to add new customers. We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, and if we fail to obtain these components on a timely basis, we will not meet our customers’ product delivery requirements. We currently purchase several key components from single or limited sources. In particular, we rely on third parties as sole source suppliers for certain of our components, including: application-specific integrated circuits, field-programmable gate arrays, processors, and other semiconductor and optical components. We purchase these 26 Table of Contents items on a purchase order basis and have no long-term contracts with any of these sole source suppliers. If any of our sole or limited source suppliers suffer from capacity constraints, lower than expected yields, work stoppages or any other reduction or disruption in output, they may be unable to meet our delivery schedule. Further, our suppliers could enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors, refuse to sell their products or components to us at commercially reasonable prices or at all, go out of business or discontinue their relationships with us. We may be unable to develop alternative sources for these components. If we do not receive critical components from our suppliers in a timely manner, we will be unable to deliver those components to our manufacturer in a timely manner and would, therefore, be unable to meet our prospective customers’ product delivery requirements. In addition, the sourcing from new suppliers may result in a re-design of our DTN System, which could cause delays in the manufacturing and delivery of our systems. In the past, we have experienced delivery delays because of lack of availability of components or reliability issues with components that we were purchasing. This may occur in the future, which could cause us to fail to meet a customer’s delivery requirements and could harm our reputation and our customer relationships and result in the breach of our customer agreements. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend upon continued growth of demand by consumers and businesses for additional network capacity. Our future success depends on factors such as the continued growth of the Internet and internet protocol traffic and the continuing adoption of high capacity, revenue-generating services to increase the amount of data transmitted over communications networks and the growth of optical communications networks to meet the increased demand for bandwidth. If demand for such bandwidth does not continue, or slows down, the need for increased bandwidth across networks and the market for optical communications network products may not continue to grow. If this growth does not continue or slows down, our DTN System sales would be negatively impacted. We have experienced delays in the development and introduction of our DTN System, and any future delays in releasing new products or in enhancements to our DTN System may harm our business. Since our DTN System is based on complex technology, we may experience unanticipated delays in developing, improving, manufacturing or deploying it. Any modification to our PIC and to our DTN System entails similar development risks. At any given time, various enhancements to our DTN System are in the development phase and are not yet ready for commercial manufacturing or deployment. The maturing process from laboratory prototype to customer trials, and subsequently to general availability, involves a number of steps, including: • completion of product development; • the qualification and multiple sourcing of critical components; • validation of manufacturing methods and processes; • extensive quality assurance and reliability testing, and staffing of testing infrastructure; • validation of software; and • establishment of systems integration and systems test validation requirements. Each of these steps, in turn, presents risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could decrease the speed and scope of product introduction and marketplace acceptance of our DTN System. New versions of our PICs, specialized application-specific integrated circuits and intensive software testing and validation are important to the timely introduction of enhancements to our DTN System and to our ability to enter new markets, and schedule delays are common in the final validation phase as well as in the manufacture of specialized application-specific integrated circuits. In addition, unexpected intellectual property disputes, failure of critical design elements, and a host of other execution risks may delay or even prevent the introduction of enhancements to our DTN System. If we do not develop and successfully introduce products in a timely manner, our competitive position may suffer. 27 Table of Contents We must respond to rapid technological change and comply with evolving industry standards and requirements for our DTN System to be successful. The optical communications equipment market is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. The introduction of new communications technologies and the emergence of new industry standards or requirements could render our DTN System obsolete. Further, in developing our DTN System, we have made, and will continue to make, assumptions with respect to which standards or requirements will be adopted by our customers and competitors. If the standards or requirements adopted by our prospective customers are different from those on which we have focused our efforts, market acceptance of our DTN System would be reduced or delayed and our business would be harmed. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their existing products and to introduce new products and technologies. To be competitive, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. We may not have sufficient resources to make these investments, we may not be able to make the technological advances necessary to be competitive and we may not be able to effectively sell our DTN System to targeted customers who have prior relationships with our competitors. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. Assessing our processes, procedures and staffing in order to improve our internal control over financial reporting is an ongoing process. For the year ending December 27, 2008, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management will be required for the first time to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our auditors will be required to deliver an attestation report on the operating effectiveness of, our internal control over financial reporting beginning with the year ended December 27, 2008. Preparing our financial statements involves a number of complex processes, many of which are done manually and are dependent upon individual data input or review. These processes include, but are not limited to, calculating ratable revenue, deferred revenue and inventory costs. While we continue to automate our processes and enhance our review and detect controls to reduce the likelihood for errors, we expect that for the foreseeable future many of our processes will remain manually intensive. We have a substantial effort ahead of us to implement appropriate processes, document the system of internal control over key processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. In the past, we have identified several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have remediated these identified material weaknesses, but we cannot give any assurances that all material weaknesses have been identified or that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future in connection with our compliance with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 beginning in the year ending December 27, 2008. The existence of one or more material weaknesses would preclude a conclusion by management that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain at this time that we will be able to successfully complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 or that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify and report a material weakness, it may affect the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting. If we lose key personnel or fail to attract and retain additional qualified personnel when needed, our business may be harmed. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing, and finance personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. For 28 Table of Contents example, senior members of our engineering team have unique technical experience that would be difficult to replace. We do not have long-term employment contracts or key person life insurance covering any of our key personnel. Because our DTN System is complex, we must hire and retain a large number of highly trained customer service and support personnel to ensure that the deployment of our DTN System does not result in network disruption for our customers. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales, marketing, finance and customer service and support personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense in our industry, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area. We may not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining appropriate personnel. Further, competitors and other entities have in the past attempted, and may in the future attempt, to recruit our employees. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to identify, attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring qualified personnel, particularly engineers and sales personnel, could make it difficult for us to manage our business and meet key objectives, such as timely product introductions. Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable, which could result in an unexpected revenue shortfall in any given quarter. Our DTN System has a lengthy sales cycle, which can extend from six to twelve months and may take even longer for larger prospective customers such as U.S. regional bell operating companies, international postal, telephone and telegraph companies and U.S. competitive local exchange carriers. Our prospective customers conduct significant evaluation, testing, implementation and acceptance procedures before they purchase our DTN System. We incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort during this time, regardless of whether we make a sale. Because the purchase of our equipment involves substantial cost, most of our customers wait to purchase our equipment until they are ready to deploy it in their network. As a result, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the timing of future purchases by our customers. In addition, product purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from customers for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our revenue will be negatively impacted. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may harm our operating results. We market, sell and service our DTN System globally. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, we derived approximately 19%, 14% and 36%, respectively, of our revenue from customers outside of the United States. We have sales and support personnel in numerous countries worldwide. In addition, we have a large group of software development personnel located in Bangalore, India. We expect that significant management attention and financial resources will be required for our international activities over the foreseeable future as we enter new international markets. In some countries, our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local partners. Our inability to identify appropriate partners or reach mutually satisfactory arrangements for international sales of our DTN System could impact our ability to maintain or increase international market demand for our DTN System. Our international operations are subject to inherent risks, and our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • difficulties of managing and staffing international offices, and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • tariff and trade barriers and other regulatory requirements or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our DTN System in certain foreign markets; • certification requirements; 29 Table of Contents • greater difficulty documenting and testing our internal controls; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • political and economic instability; • effects of changes in currency exchange rates; and • service provider and government spending patterns. International customers may also require that we comply with certain testing or customization of our DTN System to conform to local standards. The product development costs to test or customize our DTN System could be extensive and a material expense for us. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales. If our contract manufacturers do not perform as we expect, our business may be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to have sufficient volumes of our DTN System manufactured in a cost-effective and quality-controlled manner. We have engaged third parties to manufacture certain elements of our DTN System and are in the process of qualifying non-U.S. contract manufacturing sites. There are a number of risks associated with our dependence on contract manufacturers, including: • reduced control over delivery schedules, particularly for international contract manufacturing sites; • reliance on the quality assurance procedures of third parties; • potential uncertainty regarding manufacturing yields and costs; • potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; • potential uncertainty related to the use of international contract manufacturing sites; • limited warranties on components supplied to us; • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; and • potential manufacturing disruptions. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fulfill orders. Our contract manufacturers may not be able to meet the delivery requirements of our customers, which could decrease customer satisfaction and harm our DTN System sales. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our contract manufacturers that will guarantee product availability, or the continuation of particular pricing or payment terms. If our contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our DTN System in required volumes or our relationship with any of our contract manufacturers is discontinued for any reason, we would be required to identify and qualify alternative manufacturers, which could cause us to be unable to meet our supply requirements to our customers and result in the breach of our customer agreements. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming and if we are required to change or qualify a new contract manufacturer, we would likely lose sales revenue and damage our existing customer relationships. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operations. We have made strategic acquisitions of businesses, technologies and other assets in the past. While we have no current agreements or commitments, we may in the future acquire businesses, product lines or technologies. 30 Table of Contents In the event of any future acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or they may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors and we could: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur debt and assume other liabilities; or • incur amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets and/or incur large and immediate write-offs. Acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including: • problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products with our own; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • assumption of unknown liabilities; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • increased accounting compliance risk; • risks associated with entering new markets; and • potential loss of key employees. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future. Our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our investments in adjustable rate securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. As of February 15, 2008, we held $75.7 million of municipal notes investments, classified as short-term investments, with an auction reset feature (“adjustable rate securities”) whose underlying assets were in student loans and which had a AAA credit rating. Auctions for some of these adjustable rate securities have failed and there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining adjustable rate securities in our investment portfolio will continue to succeed. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not do so. As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our adjustable rate securities in the near term may be limited or not exist. These developments may result in the classification of some or all of these securities as long-term investments in our consolidated financial statements. If the issuers of these adjustable rate securities are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. We may be required to wait until market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 30 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value. Our use and reliance upon development resources in India may expose us to unanticipated costs or liabilities. We have established a development center in India and expect to continue to increase hiring of personnel for this facility. There is no assurance that our reliance upon development resources in India will enable us to achieve meaningful cost reductions or greater resource efficiency. Further, our development efforts and other operations in India involve significant risks, including: • difficulty hiring and retaining appropriate engineering resources due to intense competition for such resources and resulting wage inflation; 31 Table of Contents • the knowledge transfer related to our technology and exposure to misappropriation of intellectual property or confidential information, including information that is proprietary to us, our customers and other third parties; • heightened exposure to changes in the economic, security and political conditions of India; • fluctuation in currency exchange rates and tax risks associated with international operations; and • development efforts that do not meet our requirements because of language, cultural or other differences associated with international operations, resulting in errors or delays. Difficulties resulting from the factors above and other risks related to our operations in India could expose us to increased expense, impair our development efforts, harm our competitive position and damage our reputation. Unforeseen health, safety and environmental costs could harm our business. Our manufacturing operations use substances that are regulated by various federal, state and international laws governing health, safety and the environment. If we experience a problem with these substances, it could cause an interruption or delay in our manufacturing operations or could cause us to incur liabilities for any costs related to health, safety or environmental remediation. We could also be subject to liability if we do not handle these substances in compliance with safety standards for storage and transportation and applicable laws. If we experience a problem or fail to comply with such safety standards, our business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur legal, accounting and other compliance expenses including with respect to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market. For example, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. In addition, U.S. securities laws require, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for the year ending December 27, 2008, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to potential delisting by the NASDAQ Stock Market and review by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. 32 Table of Contents We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. We are subject to export control laws that limit which products we sell and where and to whom we sell our DTN System. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain technologies and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our DTN System or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our DTN System in those countries. Changes in our DTN System or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our DTN System in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our DTN System throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our DTN System to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our DTN System by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our DTN System to, existing or potential customers with international operations. For example, we need to comply with Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Restriction of Hazardous Substances laws, which have been adopted by certain European Economic Area countries on a country-by-country basis. Failure to comply with these and similar laws on a timely basis, or at all, decreased use of our DTN System or any limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we need additional capital in the future, it may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our business requires significant capital. We have historically relied on significant outside financing as well as cash flow from operations to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financings in the future to fund our operations or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities in the event that we continue to incur significant losses or otherwise. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be limited and our business will be harmed. We are subject to government regulations that could adversely impact our business. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has jurisdiction over the entire U.S. communications industry and, as a result, our DTN System and our North American customers are subject to FCC rules and regulations. Current and future FCC regulations affecting communications services, our DTN System or our customers’ businesses could negatively affect our business. In addition, international regulatory standards could impair our ability to develop products for international customers in the future. Delays caused by our compliance with regulatory requirements could result in postponements or cancellations of product orders. Further, we may not be successful in obtaining or maintaining any regulatory approvals that may, in the future, be required to operate our business. Any failure to obtain such approvals could harm our business and operating results. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events could harm our operations. Our headquarters and the majority of our infrastructure, including our PIC manufacturing facility, is located in Northern California, an area that is susceptible to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Further, a terrorist attack aimed at Northern California or at our nation’s energy or telecommunications infrastructure could hinder or delay the development and sale of our DTN System. In the event that an earthquake, terrorist attack or other catastrophe were to destroy any part of our facilities, or certain of our contract manufacturers’ facilities, destroy or disrupt vital infrastructure systems or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future. The trading prices of our common stock and the securities of other technology companies have been and may continue to be highly volatile. Further, our common stock has limited prior trading history. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock will include: • variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or agreements by us or by our competitors; • the gain or loss of customers; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or operating results. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Each of these factors, among others, could harm the value of your investment in our common stock. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action lawsuits filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If no or few securities or industry analysts cover our company, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which apply to us, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” convertible preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; 34 Table of Contents • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a supermajority stockholder vote; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office rather than by stockholders; • prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 