Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified certain risk factors that apply to us. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. If any of the following risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses from operations and our achievement of sustained profitability is uncertain. We were founded in 1998 and did not achieve profitability until fiscal year 2008. We recognized net profit of $45,000 in fiscal 2008 and net losses of $10.9 million in fiscal 2007 and $9.8 million in fiscal 2006. As of January 2, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $75.9 million. Our ability to increase revenue or achieve and sustain profitability in the future will depend substantially on our ability to increase sales of our products to new and existing customers, to introduce and sell new products and to reduce the cost of revenue. Furthermore, we expect to make significant expenditures related to the development of our products. As a public company, we have and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We cannot assure you that our operations will remain profitable in the future. Adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions. Uncertainty about future economic and political conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. For example, the direction and relative strength of the global economy has recently been increasingly uncertain due to softness in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, continuing geopolitical uncertainties and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. As economic growth in the United States and other countries’ economies has slowed and, in some countries, turned negative, many customers delayed or reduced technology purchases or marketing spending. In addition, after growing rapidly, we believe the attach rates in 2008 have flattened as a result of the macroeconomic slowdown and sales have shifted to lower-cost laptops versus the full-featured, higher-cost laptops. These factors could result in continued reductions in the sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. The current global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of certain of our key suppliers, distributors, resellers, OEMs, retailers and systems integrators, ISVs and VARs (collectively referred to as “distributors”), which could impair our supply of products, distribution channels, the ability of customers, including our distributors, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. The failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions could negatively impact our treasury operations. Other income and expense could also vary from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments, impairment charges related to investment securities as well as equity and other investments, interest rates, cash balances, and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Political instability in any of the major countries we do business in would also likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent upon a relatively small number of significant end customers for more than 80% of our 2008 and 2007 revenue. The loss of any one or more of these customers could reduce our revenue. A relatively small number of end customers account for a significant portion of our revenue in any particular period. In fiscal 2008, Hewlett-Packard Company, Fujitsu Ltd. and Lenovo Group Ltd., either directly or through their suppliers, accounted for 41%, 14% and 11%, respectively, of our revenue in 2008. Our top five end customers accounted for 78% of our revenue in fiscal 2008 and 85% of our revenue in fiscal 2007. We expect that our history of high end customer concentration and attendant risk will continue in future periods. The loss of any significant end customer will limit our ability to sustain or grow our revenue. In September 2008, we disclosed the loss of a 2009 design-in opportunity at one of our significant PC customers. We do not anticipate a revenue impact associated with this lost opportunity until late fiscal year 2009 or early fiscal year 2010. We have experienced significant revenue growth recently, and we cannot assure you this trend will continue. We have grown rapidly in a short period of time, with our revenue increasing 22% from $52.3 million for fiscal 2007 to $63.9 million for fiscal 2008, and 58% from $33.2 million for fiscal 2006 to $52.3 million for fiscal 2007. We cannot assure you that we will achieve similar growth rates in future periods. You should not rely on the results of any prior periods as an indication of our future operating performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, our stock price may decline, and we may not have adequate financial resources to execute our business objectives. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we encountered over the past three years as a growing technology company in a very competitive market. These risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to the risks identified below and in particular the following factors: • our focus on a single product market, the market for fingerprint authentication solutions; • the difficulties we face in managing rapid growth in personnel and operations; • the timing and success of new products and new technologies introduced by us and our competitors; • our ability to build brand awareness in a highly competitive market; and • our ability to increase production in a timely and cost effective basis. We may not be able to successfully address any of these risks or others. Failure to do so adequately could harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer. Page 13 of 70 Table of Contents If we acquire any companies or technologies in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. In the future, we may acquire or make investments in companies, assets or technologies that we believe are complementary or strategic. We have not made any acquisitions or investments to date, and therefore our ability as an organization to make acquisitions or investments is unproven. If we decide to make an acquisition or investment, we face numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, products and personnel; • diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations; • risk of overpaying for or misjudging the strategic fit of an acquired company, asset or technology; • problems or liabilities stemming from defects of an acquired product or intellectual property litigation or another litigation that may result from offering the acquired product in our markets; • challenges in retaining employees key to realizing the value of the acquisition or investment; • inability to generate sufficient return on investment; • incurrence of significant one-time write-offs; and • delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty. If we proceed with an acquisition or investment, we may be required to use a considerable amount of our cash and investments, which may decrease our liquidity, or to finance the transaction through debt or equity securities offerings, which may dilute our stockholders and affect the market price of our stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be harmed. We may not be able to manage our future growth effectively, and we may need to incur significant expenditures to address the additional operational and control requirements of our growth and those of being a public company. Over the past several years, we have experienced growth and expansion, which has placed, and any future expansion will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and financial resources. To manage any growth successfully, we believe we must effectively: • hire, train, integrate and manage additional qualified engineers for research and development activities, as well as sales, marketing, financial and information technology personnel; • expand and upgrade our technological capabilities; • manage simultaneous relationships with our customers, distributors, sales representatives, subcontractors, suppliers and other third parties • implement new customer service and production control systems; and • implement and upgrade financial and IT systems. Our efforts may require substantial managerial and financial resources and may increase our operating costs even though these efforts may not be successful. If we are unable to manage any growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new products, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan, respond to competitive pressures or comply with public company requirements. The semiconductor industry has historically experienced significant fluctuations with prolonged downturns, which could impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The semiconductor industry has historically exhibited cyclical behavior, which at various times has included significant downturns in customer demand. Because a significant portion of our expenses is fixed in the near term or is incurred in advance of anticipated revenue, we may not be able to decrease our expenses rapidly enough to offset any unanticipated shortfall in revenue. If this situation were to occur, it could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and financial condition. Due to the macroeconomic downturn, our fourth quarter financial results were adversely impacted by a sharp decline in demand for our products. Furthermore, the semiconductor industry has experienced periods of increased demand and production constraints. If this happens in the future, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of our products to meet the increased demand. We may also have difficulty in obtaining sufficient wafer, assembly and test resources from our independent subcontractors. Any factor adversely affecting the semiconductor industry in general, or the particular segments of the industry that our products target, may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and could negatively impact our operating results. Page 14 of 70 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results will likely fluctuate in the future. We believe our quarterly operating results will be subject to greater fluctuation due to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that may affect quarterly operating results in the future include: • our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and increase revenue; • unpredictability of the timing and size of customer orders or customer cancellations of existing orders, since most of our customers purchase our products on a purchase order basis rather than pursuant to a long-term contract; • general economic conditions in our geographic markets. • fluctuations in the capacities of and costs from our subcontractors in order to satisfy customer requirements; • variability of our margins based on changes in the mix of products shipped, production yields and other costs; • variability of operating expenses as a percentage of revenue; • our ability to introduce new and innovative fingerprint authentication solutions that appeal to our customers; • changes in our product pricing including those made in response to new product announcements and pricing changes of our competitors; • fluctuations based upon seasonality; • our rate of expansion, domestically and internationally; • the effectiveness of our sales force and the efforts of our distributors and sales representatives; • the effect of mergers and acquisitions on our company, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers; and Accordingly, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast our business and results of operations on a quarterly basis. If we fail to meet expectations of investors or analysts, our stock price may fall rapidly and without notice. Further, the fluctuation of quarterly operating results may render period-to-period comparisons of our operating results less meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. The market in which we participate is highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, we may not be able to increase our market penetration, grow our revenue or improve our gross margins. The fingerprint authentication market is very competitive and changing rapidly. We expect increased challenges from existing as well as new competitors. Some of our competitors have offered solutions at lower prices, which have resulted in pricing pressure on sales of our fingerprint sensors. We expect further downward pricing pressure from our competitors and expect that we will have to price our fingerprint sensors aggressively to maintain or increase our market share. If we are unable to reduce our costs, our operating results could be negatively impacted. Increased competition generally may also result in reduced revenue, lower margins or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our present or future competitors could enjoy one or more substantial competitive advantages, such as: • more established relationships with customers, contract manufacturers and suppliers; • greater name recognition and deeper penetration of our target markets; • a broader and more diversified array of products and services; • larger selling and marketing organizations, research and development teams and budgets; • better sales channels; • larger customer service and support organizations with greater geographic scope; • longer operating histories; and • substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. Our present competitors include private companies such as Atrua, Inc., EgisTec, Inc., Symwave, Inc., UPEK, Inc., Validity Sensors, Inc., and public companies such as , Fujitsu Semiconductor and Mitsumi Electronic Co., Ltd. In addition, certain of our customers offer competitive technologies which could displace our own. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. The challenges we face from new and potentially larger competitors will become greater if consolidation or collaboration between or among our competitors occurs in our industry. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, and if we do not compete effectively, our ability to increase our revenue may be impaired. Page 15 of 70 Table of Contents The average selling prices of semiconductor products have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and profits if we are unable to reduce our costs commensurately. The semiconductor products we develop and sell are often subject to rapid declines in average selling prices. From time to time, we have had to reduce our prices significantly to meet customer, market and competitive pressures, and we may be required to reduce our prices more aggressively than planned. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could impact our average selling prices to all customers. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our unit volumes, reducing our costs or developing new products on a timely basis. Resolution of claims that we have violated or may violate the intellectual property rights of others could materially harm our business and could require us to indemnify our customers, resellers or vendors, redesign our products, pay significant royalties to third parties or expend additional development resources to redesign our products. The semiconductor industry is marked by a large number of patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violation of intellectual property rights. At any time, a third-party may assert that our technology or products violates such party’s intellectual property rights Successful intellectual property claims against us could result in significant financial liability or prevent us from operating our business or portions of our business as currently conducted. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our solutions, to obtain licenses to use intellectual property belonging to third parties, which we may not be able to obtain on reasonable terms, to cease using the technology covered by those rights and to indemnify our customers, resellers or vendors. Any claim, regardless of its merits, could be expensive and time consuming to defend against and divert the attention of our technical and management resources. Questions of infringement in the biometrics and semiconductor market involve highly technical and subjective analyses. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, and we may not prevail in any such future litigation. Litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, is costly, could harm our reputation, could cause our customers to use our competitors’ products and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from normal business operations. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and technical know-how could impair our competitiveness. Our ability to prevent competitors from gaining access to our technology is essential to our success. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, we may lose an important advantage in the markets in which we compete. Trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as our internal confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions are the core of our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative proceedings or litigation, and we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights. Such administrative proceedings and litigation are inherently uncertain and divert resources that could be put towards other business priorities. We may not be able to obtain a favorable outcome and may spend considerable resources in our efforts to defend and protect our intellectual property. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. We may be unable to obtain additional patent protection in the future or obtain patents with claims of scope necessary to cover our technology. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our products are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property and using our technology for their competitive advantage. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the patents of others will not have an effect on our ability to do business. In addition, we cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying or reverse-engineering our products, or that our competitors will not independently develop similar or competing technologies or methods or design around any patents that may be issued to us. Page 16 of 70 Table of Contents Our products must meet exacting specifications, and defects and failures may occur, which may cause customers to return or stop buying our products. Our customers generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance and reliability that our products must meet. However, our products are highly complex and may contain defects and failures when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Our products are also subject to rough environments as they are integrated into our customer products for use by the end customers. If defects and failures occur in our products, we could experience lost revenue, increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with customer support, delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, product returns or discounts, diversion of management resources or damage to our reputation and brand equity, and in some cases consequential damages, any of which would harm our operating results. In addition, delays in our ability to fill product orders as a result of quality control issues may negatively impact our relationship with our customers. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources, including any available insurance, to satisfy any asserted claims. Our future financial performance will depend on the widespread acceptance of biometric solutions. In its short history, the biometrics market has been characterized by the frequent introduction of new technologies and products. The application of biometric technologies in non-governmental applications, including fingerprint, is relatively new. Although the market has been growing rapidly, there is no assurance that this growth will continue. Consumers and corporations may not find value in having biometric technologies integrated in the products they use such as PCs, wireless devices and access control systems. If end users do not value the product, then our customers may decide not to use our sensors in their future products. In addition, there are multiple variants of biometric technologies beyond fingerprint including face, hand, vein, voice, iris and others. Our customers, and their end users, may find these technologies of greater value and choose these technologies over our own. The expansion of the biometric market also depends on the following factors: • public perception regarding the intrusiveness of our biometrics and the manner in which organizations use the biometric information collected; • legislation related to biometric information; • publicity regarding biometric solutions; and • security or use issues associated with our or competitive products that may reflect poorly on the biometrics market in general. Even if biometric solutions gain wide market acceptance, our solutions may not adequately address market requirements and may not continue to gain market acceptance. The outcome of and costs related to the pending shareholder class action are uncertain. On October 9, 2008, a complaint for violation of U.S. securities laws was filed by Brian Hoffman against our company, our CEO, Scott Moody, and our CFO, Gary Larsen, in the United States District Court of Florida. The lawsuit is described in detail in Item 3 – “Legal Proceedings.” On January 9, 2009, an Amended Complaint was filed on behalf of a class of persons who purchased our common stock between October 29, 2007 and September 5, 2008 alleging that the defendants made false or misleading statements concerning our business, operations, and prospects and that the putative class suffered losses as a result. We strongly refute these allegations and intend to defend this lawsuit. We are not able to predict the outcome of this lawsuit; however, if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to defend against the allegations raised in the lawsuit, our business and financial condition could be negatively impacted. In addition, the lawsuit and other legal matters could consume the time and attention of our senior management. We maintain insurance intended to provide coverage for the potential consequences of a negative outcome of the lawsuit described above, including our legal expenses. We have given notice to our insurers of the claims. The insurers have responded by requesting additional information and by reserving their rights under the policies, including the rights to deny coverage under various policy exclusions or to rescind the policies in question. There can be no assurance that the insurers will not seek to deny coverage or rescind the policies that all of the claims or expenses will be covered by such policies; or that, even if covered, our ultimate liability will not exceed the available insurance. If we fail to achieve initial design-wins for our products, we may lose the opportunity to generate revenue for a lengthy period of time and be unable to recoup our investments in our products. We expend considerable resources to achieve design-wins for our products, especially our new products and product enhancements. Once a customer designs a fingerprint sensor into a product, it is likely to continue to use the same sensor or enhanced Page 17 of 70 Table of Contents versions of that sensor from the same supplier across a number of similar and successor products for a period of time due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and potentially redesigning the product to incorporate a different fingerprint sensor. If we fail to achieve an initial design-win in a customer’s procurement process, we may lose the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a number of its products and for a lengthy period of time. This may cause us to be unable to recoup our investments in our products, which would harm our business. After a design win has been awarded, customers may cancel, postpone, or significantly reduce production volume, which could adversely impact our future revenue. We rely on a limited number of independent subcontractors for the manufacture, warehousing and shipping of our products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our revenue and limit our growth. We do not have our own wafer fabrication, assembly or test facilities and have a very limited in-house prototype testing operation. Therefore, we must rely on third-party subcontractors to manufacture the products we design and sell. We currently primarily rely on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd., or TSMC, to fabricate our semiconductor products. We also rely on Chipbond Technology Corp., or Chipbond, for special coating technologies, which are referred to as bumping, and on Signetics Corporation, or Signetics and ChipMOS Technologies, or ChipMOS, to assemble and test most of our products. If these vendors do not provide us with high-quality manufacturing services and capacity in a timely manner, or if one or more of these vendors terminates its relationship with us, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacements to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, our relationships with our customers could suffer and our revenue could decrease. The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process. Our subcontractors could, from time to time, experience manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. In addition, production yields for new products are generally lower at the initial production ramp. Product yields depend on our product design, the fabrication technology and the assembly process. Identifying yield problems can only occur in the production cycle when a product can be physically analyzed and tested in volume. Poor yields, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial results and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. Other potential risks associated with relying on third-party subcontractors include: • reduced control over product cost, delivery schedules and product quality; • potential price increases; • inability to achieve required production or test capacity and acceptable yields on a timely basis; • longer delivery times; • increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; • shortages of materials used to manufacture our products; • labor shortages or labor strikes; • quarantines or closures of manufacturing facilities due to the outbreak of viruses, such as SARS, the avian flu or any similar future outbreaks worldwide; and • political risks in countries we operate in. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our subcontractors. Therefore, they are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Our subcontractors have not provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available for us to meet future demand for our products. These third-party vendors may allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice. In particular, other customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with TSMC, Chipbond, Signetics or ChipMOS may cause them to reallocate capacity to those customers, decreasing the capacity available to us. Our success will depend on the timely introduction of new products with increased functionality. Our future financial performance will depend on our ability to meet customer specifications and requirements by enhancing our current fingerprint authentication solutions and developing products with new and better functionality. We expect to devote significant resources to identifying new market trends and developing products to meet anticipated customer demand for fingerprint sensor solutions. Ultimately, however, customers may not purchase our solutions. Accordingly, we can not assure you that demand for the type of solutions we offer and plan to offer will continue to develop as we anticipate, or at all. Page 18 of 70 Table of Contents We must develop new products and enhance our existing products with improved technologies to meet rapidly evolving customer requirements. The success of new features depends on several factors, including their timely introduction and market acceptance. We may not be successful in developing enhancements or new solutions or bringing them to market in a timely manner. We could experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements that may render our products, when introduced, obsolete and unmarketable. Customers may also defer purchases of our existing products pending the introduction of anticipated new products. If our new solutions are not competitive with solutions offered by other vendors, we may not be perceived as a technology leader and could miss market opportunities. If we are unable to enhance the functionality of our solutions or introduce new solutions which achieve widespread market acceptance, our reputation will be damaged, the value of our brand will diminish, and our business will suffer. In addition, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new features and products could result in increases in our research and development expenses with no assurance of future sales. We manufacture our products based on our estimates of customer demand, and if our estimates are incorrect, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Our revenue is made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. In addition, our customers may cancel purchase orders or defer the shipments of our products. We manufacture our products according to our estimates of customer demand. This process requires us to make multiple demands forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may manufacture products that we may not be able to sell. In addition, the rapid pace of innovation in our industry could render obsolete significant portions of such inventory. Excess or obsolete inventory levels for these or other reasons could result in unexpected expenses or increases in our reserves which would adversely affect our business and financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we would forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Our sales cycle is lengthy and expensive and could adversely affect the amount, timing and predictability of future revenue. Our customers generally need three months to three years, if not longer, after initial contact to make a final purchase decision with respect to our products. Our typical sales cycle often includes a prototype phase as a method to show proof of concept and manufacturability. As customers weigh their purchase options, we may expend significant resources in pursuit of a sale that may ultimately fail to close. We have little control over our customers’ budget cycles and approval processes, or the strength of competitors’ relationships with our potential customers, all of which could adversely affect our sales efforts. The introduction of new products and product enhancements may lengthen our sales cycle as customers defer a decision on purchasing existing products and evaluate our new products. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant resources, our revenue and operating expenses will be adversely affected. We must work closely with our subcontractors to make timely new product introductions. We rely on our close working relationships with our independent subcontractors and other suppliers, including TSMC, Chipbond, Signetics and ChipMOS, to anticipate and deliver new products on a timely basis when new generation materials and technologies are made available. If we are not able to maintain our relationships with our subcontractors, our ability to quickly offer advanced technology and product innovations to our customers would be impaired. Maintaining and improving our financial controls and complying with rules and regulations applicable to public companies may be a significant burden on our management team and require considerable expenditures of our resources. As a public company, we have and will continue to incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and The Nasdaq Marketplace Rules apply to us as a public company. Compliance with these rules and regulations has and will continue to necessitate significant increases in our legal and financial budgets and may also strain our personnel, systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, filing of annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Satisfying these requirements involves a commitment of significant resources and management oversight. As a result of management’s efforts to comply with such requirements, other important business concerns may receive insufficient attention, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to meet certain of these regulatory requirements could cause us to be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. Page 19 of 70 Table of Contents Our headquarters are located in Florida, and our third-party manufacturing subcontractors are concentrated in Asia, areas subject to significant natural disaster risks. TSMC, which fabricates our semiconductors, and Chipbond, which performs substantially all of our bumping, are located in China and Taiwan, respectively, Signetics, and ChipMOS, which provides substantially all of our assembly and test support, is located in South Korea and Taiwan, respectively. The risk of extreme weather and an earthquake in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines. In September 1999, a major earthquake in Taiwan affected the facilities of TSMC, as well as other providers of foundry, assembly and test services. In 2005, several typhoons also disrupted the operations of TSMC. As a result of these natural disasters, these subcontractors suffered power outages and disruptions that impaired their production capacity. In March 2002 and June 2003, additional earthquakes occurred in Taiwan. The occurrence of earthquakes and other natural disasters could result in the disruption of operations. There is also a level of political unrest or uncertainty in some of these areas. We may not be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms, if at all, which could harm our operating results. In addition, our headquarters are located in Florida. The risk of a hurricane in Florida is significant. In 2004, the centers of two hurricanes came close to the area in which we operate, and we suffered power outages and disrupted business operations. If we lose any key employees or are unable to attract additional key employees, we may not be able to implement our business strategy in a timely manner. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executive management team and other key employees. We are particularly dependent on the continued service of our existing research and development personnel because of the complexity of our products and technologies. Our employment arrangements with our executives and employees do not require them to provide services to us for any specific length of time, and they can terminate their employment with us at any time, with or without notice, without penalty. The loss of services of any of these executives or of one or more other key members of our team could seriously harm our business. To execute our growth plan, we must continue to attract additional highly qualified personnel. We have experienced in the past, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we are unable to attract and integrate additional key employees in a manner that enables us to scale our business and operations effectively, or if we do not maintain competitive compensation policies to retain our employees, our ability to operate effectively and efficiently could be limited. Security breaches in systems which integrate our products could result in the disclosure of sensitive information that could result in the loss of customers and negative publicity. Many of the sensors we sell protect private corporate or personal information. A security breach in one of these systems which integrate our products could cause serious harm to our business as a result of negative publicity and lost business. This risk is difficult to manage since our primary customer base, OEMs and ODMs, control the overall system design and security feature integration. In addition, most customers currently use third party software to interface with our fingerprint sensors. However, should a customer or end user lose important sensitive information, they may elect to pursue a legal claim against us for their perceived damage. We work with distributors and sales representatives to sell our products, and if our relationships with one or more of those distributors or sales representatives were to terminate, our operating results may be impacted. We rely in part upon third parties, including our independent sales representatives and our distributors, to promote our products, generate demand and sales leads, and obtain orders for our products. Our distributors and sales representatives also provide technical sales support to our customers. The activities of these third parties are not within our direct control. Our failure to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively could impair the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and support activities. A reduction in the sales efforts, technical capabilities or financial viability of these parties, a misalignment of interest between us and them, or a termination of our relationship with a major sales representative or our distributor could have a negative effect on our revenue, financial results and ability to support our customers. These parties are engaged under short-term contracts, which typically may be terminated by either party on 30 to 60 days notice. It generally takes approximately three months for a third-party such as a sales representative to become educated about our products and capable of providing quality sales and technical support to our customers. If we were to terminate our relationship with our distributor or one of our larger sales representatives, or if one of them decided to discontinue its relationship with us, sales to current and prospective customers could be disrupted or delayed, and we could experience a diversion of substantial time and resources as we seek to identify, contract with and train a replacement. If we switch to another foundry to manufacture our semiconductors, our current manufacturing process could be disrupted which could negatively impact our unit volumes and revenue. As a result of the complexity in semiconductor manufacturing, it is difficult to retain and rely on a new foundry. We may not be able to enter into a relationship with a new foundry that produces satisfactory yields on a cost-effective basis. If we need another foundry because of increased demand, or the inability to obtain timely and adequate deliveries from our current provider, we might not be able to cost-effectively and quickly retain other vendors to satisfy our requirements. Any failure to successfully integrate a new foundry could negatively impact our unit volumes and revenue. Page 20 of 70 Table of Contents Our business depends on customers, suppliers and our own operations outside the United States, and as a result we are subject to regulatory, operational, financial and political risks, which could adversely affect our financial results. The percentage of our revenue attributable to shipments to customers outside the United States was 97% in fiscal 2008, 96% in fiscal 2007 and 92% in fiscal 2006. We expect that revenue from customers outside the United States will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue. In addition, we maintain international sales and technical support offices in China, Germany, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, and we rely on a network of distributors and sales representatives to sell our products internationally. Moreover, we have in the past relied on, and expect to continue to rely on, subcontractors located in China, South Korea and Taiwan. Accordingly, we are subject to several risks and challenges, any of which could harm our business and financial results. These risks and challenges include: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; • compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to the import or export of semiconductor products; • legal uncertainties regarding employee issues, taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; • our ability to receive timely payment and collect our accounts receivables; • political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, natural disasters and the impact of regional and global infectious diseases such as SARS or avian flu in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers and subcontractors are located; and • legal uncertainties regarding protection of intellectual property rights. Our investments in auction rate securities and corporate bonds and notes are subject to risks that may cause losses and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. As of January 2, 2009, $5.3 million of our long-term investments were comprised of municipal notes, preferred stock investments and a student loan backed security with auction reset features (“auction rate securities”). Liquidity for these auction rate securities is typically provided by an auction process which allows holders to sell their notes and resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals, usually every seven, 28 or 35 days. Starting in mid February of 2008, auctions for most of the auction rate securities held at January 2, 2009 have failed and there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will continue to succeed. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not be matched with an adequate volume of buyers. In the event that there is a failed auction the indenture governing the security requires the issuer to pay interest at a contractually defined rate that is generally above market rates for other types of similar short-term instruments. The securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue interest at the contractual rate and be auctioned every seven, 28 or 35 days until the auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities, or they mature. As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited. If the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an additional temporary or other-than temporary impairment charge on these investments. We may be required to wait until market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying notes to realize our investments’ recorded value. As of January 2, 2009, these securities have been classified as long-term investments in our consolidated financial statements and one of our auction rate securities was considered other than temporarily impaired which resulted in us taking an impairment charge of $0.3 million to the statement of operations. Future transactions may limit our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards. As of January 2, 2009, we had U.S. federal tax net operating loss carry forwards of approximately $48.9 million. These net operating loss carry forwards may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our U.S. federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, imposes an annual limit on the ability of a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” to use its net operating loss carry forwards to reduce its tax liability. Due in part to equity financings, we experienced “ownership changes” as defined in Section 382 of the Code. It is impossible for us to ensure that we will not experience an ownership change in the future because changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. Accordingly, our use of the net operating loss carry forwards and credit carry forwards is limited by the annual limitations described in Sections 382 and 383 of the Code. The limitation on the use of net operating loss carry forwards means that we may need to pay U.S. federal income taxes prior to utilizing these carry forwards in their entirety. Page 21 of 70 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with export control regulations we could be subject to substantial fines, or other sanctions. Certain of our products are subject to the Export Administration Regulations, administered by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry Security, which require that we obtain an export license before we can export products or technology to specified countries. Additionally, some of our products are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which restrict the export of information and material that may be used for military or intelligence applications by a foreign person. Failure to comply with these laws could result in sanctions by the government, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges and debarment from government contracts and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on partners to enhance our product offerings, and our inability to continue to develop or maintain such relationships in the future would harm our ability to remain competitive. We have developed relationships with third-party partners, which we refer to as our Solution Provider Network, which provide application software, hardware reference designs and other services designed for specific uses with our products. We believe these relationships enhance our customers’ ability to get their products to market quickly. If we are unable to continue to develop or maintain these relationships, we might not be able to enhance our customers’ ability to commercialize their products in a timely fashion and our ability to remain competitive would be harmed. Risks Related To Our Common Stock We cannot assure you what the market price for our common stock will be in the future. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our common stock will be sustained. The lack of a trading market may result in limited research coverage by securities analysts. Prices for the shares of our common stock are determined in the market and may be influenced by many factors, including the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of our business, profit margins in the fingerprint identification industry generally and general economic and market conditions. Further, the trading prices of technology company securities in general have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors, in addition to those outlined elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, that may affect the trading price of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or product enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • the completion of a merger or acquisition; • the loss of a key customer; • the loss of a key supplier; • the loss of key personnel; • government regulations affecting biometrics; • technological advancements rendering our products less valuable; • lawsuits filed against us; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other companies that sell similar products; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of certain companies’ securities, securities class-action litigation has been instituted against these companies. As described elsewhere in this report, such litigation has recently been commenced against us. Although we believe that this litigation is without merit, and although the majority of our litigation expenses will be covered by insurance, the pendency of this litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Page 22 of 70 Table of Contents Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Any sale by us or our current stockholders of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. We may also sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings, which may also adversely affect market prices for our common stock. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business will likely have an effect on the trading price of our common stock. If an industry analyst decides not to cover us, or if an industry analyst decides to cease covering us at some point in the future, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. If an industry analyst downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly in response. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: • require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; • limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those you desire. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 