Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Current economic conditions could adversely affect our operations. According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the U.S. economy entered into a recession in December 2007. Although the U.S. Commerce Department has reported economic growth in the third and fourth quarters of 2009 and many economists now believe that the recession has ended, the continuing economic uncertainty and the ensuing market instability have made the business more volatile and more costly. Consequently, our general business strategy may be adversely affected by unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets do not continue to improve, or if they deteriorate further, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. We believe our existing cash and investments, which includes $25.0 million in gross proceeds from stock offerings in 2009 and $10.0 million in time-based payments received from Luitpold in 2009, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements at least through the middle of 2011. However, a more radical economic downturn or increase in our expenses could require us to seek additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price, and could require us to delay or abandon product development plans or plans to acquire additional technology. There is a risk that one or more of our suppliers, clinical investigators, consultants and other partners may encounter difficulties during these challenging economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. The current conditions may also adversely affect our potential customers, including patients, medical professionals and their practices, hospitals and other health care providers. These conditions may also impact the overall amount spent on healthcare generally. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of our new technology and increased price competition. Our product candidates are in various stages of development and may not be developed or commercialized successfully. Our product candidates are based on technologies that have not been used previously in the manner and combination we propose and must compete with more established treatments currently accepted as the standards of care. Market acceptance of our products will largely depend on our ability to demonstrate their relative safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and ease of use. We are subject to the risk that: • the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority finds some or all of our product candidates ineffective or unsafe; • we do not receive necessary regulatory approvals; • we are unable to get some or all of our product candidates to market in a timely manner; • we are not able to produce our product or product candidates in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; • our products undergo post-market evaluations resulting in marketing restrictions or withdrawal of regulatory approval of our products; and • the patient and physician community does not accept our product or product candidates. In addition, our product development programs may be curtailed, redirected, eliminated or delayed at any time for many reasons, including: • adverse or ambiguous results; • undesirable side effects that delay or extend the trials; 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS • inability to locate, recruit, qualify and retain a sufficient number of clinical investigators or patients for our trials; • regulatory delays or other regulatory actions; • failure to satisfy one or more requirements or restrictions imposed by the FDA as a basis for approving the initiation of a clinical study; • difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of the particular product candidate or any other components needed for our pre-clinical testing or clinical trials; • difficulties in obtaining the necessary regulatory support from our raw materials suppliers to enable us to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market our product or product candidates; or • re-evaluation of our clinical development strategy. We cannot predict whether the commercialization of Augment in Canada will be successful or whether we will successfully develop and commercialize any of our product candidates. If we fail to do so, we will not be able to generate substantial revenue, which would have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current product candidates are all based on the same protein, rhPDGF-BB. If one of our product candidates, or one of another company’s products or product candidates containing rhPDGF-BB or a similar growth factor, reveals safety or fundamental efficacy issues in clinical use or in clinical trials, then the development path for all our other current product candidates may be adversely impacted. The development of each of our product candidates is based on our understanding of how the protein rhPDGF-BB contributes to the repair of bone and soft tissue. Soft tissue includes muscles, tendons and ligaments that connect, support or surround the bones and organs of the body. While there are important differences in each of our product candidates in terms of its purpose, each product candidate focuses on accelerating the repair of musculoskeletal tissue and relies on the ability of rhPDGF-BB to stimulate the body’s natural healing processes. Since we are developing our product candidates in parallel, if one product candidate experiences negative clinical trial results or is shown to be ineffective, it may impact the development path or future development of the other product candidates. If we find that one product candidate is unsafe, there may be an adverse effect on the development of our other product candidates. If a product or product candidate developed by another company contains the same protein rhPDGF-BB, or a similar growth factor, as our product candidates, and if its product or product candidate reveal safety or fundamental efficacy issues, then the development of our product candidates may be impacted as well. Likewise, investor perception concerning a potentially adverse impact on our product candidates may cause our stock price to decline or may result in stock price volatility. If we fail to meet our obligations under our existing license agreements or fail to enter into new license agreements, our business may be materially adversely impacted. Our rights to the development, use and marketing of our product candidates are governed by a series of licensing agreements, including those with Harvard and ZymoGenetics. These license agreements provide us with rights to certain intellectual property created by the licensor, which allow us to develop and commercialize our product and product candidates. As part of these agreements, during the term of the agreements we are required to make payments to the licensors and comply with other obligations as we progress through product development and commercialization. If we fail to make these payments or satisfy other obligations for any reason, these licenses could be terminated by the licensors, thereby possibly limiting our ability to market our product or limiting our ability to maintain exclusivity with respect to our product or product candidates. Furthermore, if a dispute arises regarding our obligations under these agreements, our business may be materially adversely impacted. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our licensors or others may dispute the scope of our rights under any of these licenses. Additionally, the licensors under these licenses might breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to prevent infringement of the licensed patents by third parties. Loss of any of these licenses for any reason could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. We may need additional licenses to intellectual property owned by third parties in order to commercialize new products. If we cannot obtain these additional licenses, we may not be able to develop or commercialize these future products. Our rights to use technologies licensed to us by third parties are not entirely within our control, and we may not be able to produce our product and product candidates without these technologies. We depend upon a limited number of specialty suppliers of raw materials. Our ability to manufacture our product candidates depends on a limited number of specialty suppliers of raw materials. In particular, we depend upon Novartis to supply us with sufficient quantities of rhPDGF for commercial production and clinical development activities and to meet the commercial demand for our product. We are obligated to purchase minimum specified quantities of rhPDGF. Our agreement with Novartis may be terminated under certain circumstances. We have established certain relationships with §-TCP suppliers and are continuing to evaluate §-TCP products and other matrices from these potential suppliers for use in orthopedic applications. There is a risk that we will not be able to secure adequate sources of rhPDGF or §-TCP to meet our clinical and commercial needs for our orthopedic applications. The failure of a supplier to continue to provide us with these materials at a price or quality acceptable to us, or at all, would impede our ability to manufacture Augment for the Canadian market and our product candidates. Moreover, our failure to maintain strategic reserve supplies of each significant single-sourced material used to manufacture Augment and the product candidates that we develop may negatively impact our development and commercialization activities. If our specialty suppliers cannot perform as agreed, we may not be able to replace them in a timely manner or on terms that are acceptable to us and the production of our product candidates would be interrupted, resulting in delays in clinical trials and additional costs. We will be required to obtain regulatory clearance from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities before we can use different suppliers or components. If we have to switch to replacement suppliers, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of Augment in Canada and our product candidates could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay completion of our clinical trials, regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of any approved products. We and our suppliers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to matters, including safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, advertising and promotional materials relating to medical devices are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission in specific instances. We and our suppliers may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements, our failure or the failure of our manufacturers to comply with these requirements, or the adoption of new requirements could delay the development of our product candidates or regulatory approval of our product candidates or successful commercialization of any approved products, resulting in additional losses to us. We may be unable to establish or enter into the necessary business relationships and agreements with other companies who provide a component critical to the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We rely heavily upon arrangements with third-parties for intellectual property, raw materials, manufacturing assistance, regulatory assistance and other assistance necessary to develop and market Augment in Canada and our other product candidates. Our strategy includes continuing to develop business relationships with other biotechnology companies to assist in the commercialization efforts for our product candidates. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate business relationships, which may be complex and time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be able to enter into any such business 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS relationships or agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If that were to happen, we may have to curtail the development or delay the commercialization of our product candidates. We currently do not have an alternative source of rhPDGF. If we are not able to obtain rhPDGF from Novartis, we may not be able to meet our supply obligations to Luitpold for rhPDGF after our current inventory is depleted. Based on our current forecasts for our rhPDGF needs, our planned clinical study programs for our product candidates and our anticipated pre-clinical studies, and sales forecasts of Augment, which was recently approved for use in Canada, the rhPDGF in our inventory, in addition to our minimum purchase commitments of rhPDGF in 2010, should meet our needs for approximately the next 18 months. Under the terms of our supply agreement, Novartis is required to support our efforts to establish our continued production of rhPDGF should it terminate the agreement; however, establishing a manufacturing process to replace Novartis’ may take multiple years and a significant financial investment to complete, if at all, and there is no assurance we would be successful in that effort. We also may not be able to manufacture any product candidates that contain rhPDGF, including our lead product candidate, Augment, after our current inventory is depleted. We have limited manufacturing capabilities and manufacturing personnel, and if our manufacturing facilities are unable to provide an adequate supply of products, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We are moving forward with plans to occupy a new manufacturing facility in the same complex as our headquarters in Franklin, Tennessee. We intend to move certain steps of the later stages of the manufacturing process of our orthopedic and sports medicine product and product candidates into that facility, including final formulation, filling the vials that will be packaged in the finished kits, and assembling the kits. The building shell was completed in late 2009, and we expect the build out will begin in 2010 or 2011. In order to qualify the facility as a GMP manufacturing facility, the build out must be complete, the utility systems, process and testing equipment must be installed and qualified, regulatory filings must be assembled and filed, and regulatory agency inspections must be passed prior to receiving approval. We anticipate that the facility will be approved for commercial operations within two years of our starting the build out. We cannot be certain, however, whether the FDA will approve the manufacturing facility. Currently we are utilizing at least four contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for Augment (for our Canadian commercial product and for our clinical study kits), and we are using at least three contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for our Augment Injectable clinical study kits. If there were a disruption to the new manufacturing facility or those of our contract manufacturers, we would have no other means of manufacturing our product and product candidates until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at the new facility or develop alternative manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to produce sufficient quantities of our product for meeting sales targets in Canada or of our product candidates for use in our current and planned clinical trials, or if our manufacturing process yields substandard products, then our product development efforts could be delayed and/or our sales and commercialization efforts could be adversely impacted. We have limited resources, facilities and experience to commercially manufacture our product and product candidates. In order to produce our product and product candidates in the quantities that we anticipate will be required to meet future market demand, we will need to complete qualification of the commercial scale production process at our contract facilities and at our in-house facility. There are technical challenges to developing and qualifying commercial-scale manufacturing operations. Further, building a new facility will require the investment of substantial additional funds as well as hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. We may not successfully complete the process qualification activities in a timely manner. This could strain our existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Furthermore, if we fail to manage our growth effectively we may not be able to produce our product and product candidates in sufficient quantities to meet the future requirements of the products. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of Augment or any product candidate, our revenues, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. In addition, if the in-house production process is not efficient or produces products that do not meet quality and other standards, our future gross margins may decline. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. We do not have a dedicated sales force and have limited experience in the sales, marketing and distribution of regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products or drug products. In order to commercialize our product candidates, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with a third party to perform these functions. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. As a result of any arrangements we may enter into with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues could be lower than if we directly marketed and sold Augment in Canada or any other product candidate that we may develop. Furthermore, as a result of our Canadian distribution agreement with Joint Solutions, our Australian distribution agreement with Surgical Specialties, or other marketing and sales arrangements we may enter into with other companies, any revenues received will depend on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. Some of our future distributors may have products or product candidates that compete with ours, and they may have an incentive not to devote sufficient efforts to marketing our products. If our relationships with Joint Solutions, Surgical Specialties or future distributors do not progress as anticipated, or if their sales and marketing strategies fail to generate sales of our products in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. The orthopedic product industries are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are safer and more effective than any products that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products in the field of biologics. We face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions in the United States and abroad. Many of our principal competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with, or mergers with or acquisitions by, large and established companies or through the development of novel products and technologies. Our competitors may: • develop and patent processes or products earlier than us; • obtain regulatory approvals for competing products more rapidly than us; or • develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or product and product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. The industry in which we operate has undergone, and we expect it to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made. Our competitors may develop and commercialize medical devices, regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products, biologic products or pharmaceutical products that are safer or more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. For example, we are aware of companies that are developing various other technologies for treating orthopedic injuries and disease, which could make our product candidates obsolete. We also compete with our competitors in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, in establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS If our product and product candidates do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, they may not, and Augment in Canada may not, gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payers, patients and the medical community. Market acceptance will depend on our ability to demonstrate the benefits of our approved products in terms of safety, efficacy, convenience, ease of administration and cost effectiveness. In addition, we believe market acceptance depends on the effectiveness of our marketing strategy, the pricing of our approved products and the reimbursement policies of government and third party payers. Physicians may not prescribe our approved products for a variety of reasons and patients may determine for any reason that our product is not useful to them. If any of our approved products fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. In Canada, market acceptance is also dependent upon the acceptance of our product by individual hospital “product evaluation committees,” which act as the gatekeepers at the hospital purchasing level. These committees look at the potential impact of a new product on patient care and on the budget in the specific therapeutic category related to that product. This process can take several months. We are currently involved with our Canadian distributor in progressing Augment through the appropriate committees at the key accounts that we believe present the best opportunities for the product. We cannot be certain that the various Canadian product evaluation committees will approve Augment in a timely manner, if at all. If product evaluation committees refuse to approve the use of Augment at their hospital, we may be unable to meet projected Augment sales targets for Canada, and our ability to generate revenue from Canadian sales will be limited. The loss of our key management and scientific personnel may hinder our ability to execute our business plan. As a small company with 89 employees as of December 31, 2009, our success depends on the continuing contributions of our management team and scientific personnel and on maintaining relationships with the network of medical and academic centers that conduct our clinical trials. We depend on the services of our key scientific employees and the principal members of our management staff. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We face intense competition in our hiring efforts from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from universities and nonprofit research organizations, and we may have to pay higher salaries to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of one or more of these individuals, or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could substantially impair our ability to implement our business plan. We face an inherent risk of liability in the event that the use or misuse of Augment in Canada or our product candidates results in personal injury or death. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products may expose us to product liability claims which could result in financial losses. Our clinical and commercial product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources and adversely impact or eliminate the prospects for commercialization of the product candidate, or sale of the product, which is the subject of any such claim. Off-label use of our product may occur. While we do not promote any off-label use, off-label uses of products are common and the FDA does not regulate a physician’s choice of treatment. Off-label use or misuse of any product for which we obtain approval may subject us to additional liability which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are sued in a product liability action, we could be forced to pay substantial damages and the attention of our management team may be diverted from operating our business. We currently manufacture investigational regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product candidates and an approved Canadian commercial regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product. These product candidates and the commercial product are implanted in patients during surgery or injected 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS into patients at the treatment site. In addition, we are developing additional similar products for additional surgical indications, and a drug product candidate for administering to patients. As a result, we may be subject to a product liability lawsuit. In particular, the market for spine products has a history of product liability litigation. Under past agreements with our former distributor for GEM 21S and agreements with certain suppliers and distributors, we indemnify these parties from certain product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us and/or a party that we have indemnified, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future. In addition, we would have to pay any amount awarded by a court in excess of policy limits. We maintain product liability insurance in the annual aggregate amount of up to $20 million, although our insurance policies have various exclusions. Thus, we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no insurance coverage, in which case we may be liable for the entire amount of any award. Even in the absence of a claim, our insurance rates may rise in the future to a point where we may decide not to carry this insurance. A meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim would be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from our core business. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we cannot protect our intellectual property, our ability to market Augment in Canada and our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates may be severely limited. Our success will depend in part on our ability, and on the ability of Harvard and ZymoGenetics, to maintain and enforce patent protection for the therapeutic uses of rhPDGF. Without patent protection, other companies could offer substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizable discovery, development and licensing costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of approved products would then be diminished. We rely on our intellectual property, as well as the intellectual property of ZymoGenetics and the intellectual property we co-own with Harvard, to provide freedom to operate and to exclude others from developing rhPDGF for the treatment of general bone defects and bone defects associated with advanced periodontal disease, fractures and other indications. We currently own or exclusively license three unexpired U.S. patents covering certain unique aspects of our product and product candidates. Other patents that covered our product candidates have expired. We do not believe, however that such patent expirations have significantly affected our intellectual property position. Our license agreements with Harvard and ZymoGenetics provide exclusivity with respect to certain designated patents. The exclusivity under our ZymoGenetics licenses is limited to the periodontal, orthopedic and sports medicine fields. However, if any patent or other right which we own or exclusively license from ZymoGenetics or Harvard is challenged, a court may determine that the patent or right is invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity or enforceability of a patent is upheld by a court, the court may not prevent alleged infringement on the grounds that the activity is not covered by the patent claims. Any litigation, whether to enforce our rights to use our or our licensors’ patents or to defend against allegations that we infringe third-party rights, would be costly and time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. Neither we nor our licensors may be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. In addition, our patent applications, patents and our licensors’ patents may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions typically are not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases ever, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach. In addition, these agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information or prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to the information, which may not be resolved in our favor. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements, or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could adversely affect us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. Our success also depends on our ability to operate and commercialize our product and product candidates without infringing the patents or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that we or our licensors or suppliers are infringing their patents or are misappropriating their proprietary information. If there is a successful claim against us or our licensors or suppliers for infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may be required to, among other things: • pay substantial damages; • stop using our technologies; • stop certain research and development efforts; • develop non-infringing products or methods; or • obtain one or more licenses from third parties. A license required under any such patents or proprietary rights may not be available to us, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we or our licensors or suppliers are sued for infringement, we could encounter substantial delays in, or be prohibited from, developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates or prohibited from continuing the commercialization of Augment in Canada. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent our employees are involved in research areas that are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that these employees may have used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims, which could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and may have a material adverse effect on us, even if we are successful in defending these claims. Delays encountered during the FDA approval process could shorten the patent protection period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize technologies or could allow others to come to market with similar technologies before us. Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive governmental regulation including the requirement of FDA approval or clearance before our product candidates may be marketed. Both before and after approval or clearance of our product candidates, we, our product candidates, our suppliers, our contract manufacturers and our contract testing laboratories are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: • warning letters; • fines and other monetary penalties; • unanticipated expenditures; 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS • delays in the FDA’s approving or clearing or the FDA’s refusing to approve or clear a product candidate; • product recall or seizure; • interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials; • operating restrictions; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecutions. Our product candidates require FDA authorization by means of an approval or clearance prior to marketing. Some of our product candidates, including Augment and Augment Injectable, are regulated as combination products. For a combination product, the FDA must determine which center or centers within the FDA will review the product candidate and under what legal authority the product candidate will be reviewed. For the current orthopedic indications, Augment is being reviewed by medical device authorities at the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, with participation by the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. Augment requires an approved PMA before it can be marketed in the United States. Certain of our other product candidates may be reviewed by the FDA as drug products, which would require an approved NDA before they can be marketed. The process of obtaining FDA approval of a PMA or NDA is lengthy, expensive, and uncertain, and we cannot be sure that our regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product candidates regulated by the FDA as medical devices, or any other product candidates, will be approved in a timely fashion, or at all. If the FDA does not approve or clear our product candidates in a timely fashion, or at all, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. The FDA may select a different center and/or different legal authority for our other product candidates, in which case the path to regulatory approval would be different and could be more lengthy and costly. The review of combination products is often more complex and more time consuming than the review of a product candidate under the jurisdiction of only one center within the FDA. In addition to the approval and clearance requirements, other numerous and pervasive regulatory requirements apply, both before and after approval or clearance, to us, our product and product candidates, and our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and contract laboratories. These include requirements related to: • testing; • manufacturing; • quality control; • labeling; • advertising; • promotion; • distribution; • export; • reporting to the FDA certain adverse experiences associated with use of the product; and • obtaining additional approvals or clearances for certain modifications to the products or their labeling or claims. We also are subject to inspection by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements, as are our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and contract testing laboratories, and we cannot be sure that the FDA will not identify compliance issues that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS The FDA’s requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our product candidates, and our suppliers, contract manufacturers and contract laboratories. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future and such laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect upon our business. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. International sales of our product and any of our product candidates that we commercialize are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country in which the products are sold. Accordingly, the introduction of our product candidates in markets outside the United States will be subject to regulatory approvals in those jurisdictions. The regulatory review process varies from country to country and differs from the U.S. requirements. Many countries also impose product standards, packaging and labeling requirements and import restrictions on medical devices. We may also be required to perform additional pre-clinical or clinical studies even if the FDA approval has been obtained. In addition, each country has its own tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. The approval by foreign government authorities is unpredictable and uncertain and can be expensive. Our ability to market our approved products could be substantially limited due to delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, the necessary approvals or clearances. In Canada, the manufacture, distribution and use of medical devices, drugs and equipment is regulated by a variety of industry-specific statutes and regulations. Medical products sold in Canada are regulated by the Canadian Food and Drugs Act. Even though a drug or device may be approved for use in another jurisdiction, it may not be sold in Canada until approved by the national regulatory agency, Health Canada. Although in May 2006 we received marketing approval from Health Canada to market GEM 21S in Canada, and in November 2009 we announced that we received approval from Health Canada to market Augment in Canada, we will need to present data from additional clinical trials to obtain approval for our other product candidates. In 2009 we filed an Investigational Testing Authorization (“Augment Injectable ITA”) application with Health Canada and an Investigational Device Exemptions (“Augment Injectable IDE”) application with the FDA seeking approval to initiate a North American pivotal study to assess the safety and efficacy of Augment Injectable as a substitute for autograft in foot and ankle fusion procedures. In October 2009, Health Canada approved the Augment Injectable ITA and we initiated patient enrollment in Canada. Although the Augment Injectable ITA was approved by Health Canada, we may need to revise our clinical trial or present additional data from other clinical trials to obtain approval for Augment Injectable in Canada. We ultimately may not obtain the approvals necessary to market our product candidates in Canada. In addition, we may not obtain approval from the FDA on our Augment Injectable IDE, or we may be required to revise our U.S. trial in a way that limits our ability to pool data from that trial with the ongoing Canadian Augment Injectable trial. The European Medicines Agency (“EMA”) previously determined that GEMESIS would be reviewed as a medicinal (i.e., a drug) combination product, and not as a medical device product which is how the product was reviewed in the United States and Canada. Our lead product candidates, Augment and Augment Injectable, may be reviewed as medicinal combination products as well. Under EU regulatory systems, marketing authorization for medicinal products can be submitted under the centralized European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products or the decentralized mutual recognition process. It is our understanding that the centralized procedure is mandatory for biotechnology derived products regulated as medicinals such as GEMESIS, Augment and Augment Injectable. If a product is approved under the centralized procedure, it receives a single marketing authorization that is valid in all EU member states. The decentralized process provides for mutual recognition of national approved decisions which allows the holder of an approval from one EU member state to submit an application in other member states requesting that they recognize the approval already granted. We filed a Marketing Authorization Application (“MAA”) for GEMESIS, but the EMA rejected our application, due in part to the different clinical and quality requirements of a drug product in the EU compared to a medical device product in the United States. We appealed that decision, but our appeal has been denied. Further, as part of our agreement with Luitpold, we are entitled to receive a $10.0 million milestone payment from Luitpold upon EU regulatory approval of GEMESIS. Because of uncertainties in the review process, we have excluded this milestone payment from our financial guidance for 2010. 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are currently re-evaluating our regulatory strategy for GEMESIS in the EU, and are considering seeking reclassification of GEMESIS from a medicinal to a medical device based on recent changes in the Medical Device Directives (“MDD”). However, there can be no assurances that such a reclassification would be successful. Furthermore, even if the reclassification is successful, there is no assurance that this strategy would be sufficient to gain approval of GEMESIS. As a result, there is a risk that we may be unable to gain approval for GEMESIS, which would prevent us from receiving the $10 million milestone payment from Luitpold. In addition, our Augment family of product candidates may encounter similar issues, and there can be no assurances that we will obtain EU approval for our product candidates. In Australia, the manufacture, distribution and use of medical devices, drugs and equipment is regulated by the Therapeutic Goods Act. Even though a drug or device may be approved for use in another jurisdiction, it may not be sold in Australia until approved by the national regulatory agency, the Therapeutic Goods Administration. In February 2010, we filed an application of Conformity Assessment with the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (“TGA”) for Augment. This application seeks approval to market Augment in Australia as an alternative to autograft in the treatment of foot and ankle fusions. The filing utilized the technical and clinical data that were provided to Health Canada in the recent DLA and to the FDA in the recent filing of the PMA for Augment in the United States. Such data alone, however, may not be sufficient and we may need to conduct additional clinical trials in Australia to obtain approval for Augment or our other product candidates. We ultimately may not obtain the approvals necessary to market our products in Australia. The results of our clinical trials may be insufficient to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. We will only receive regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or the applicable foreign regulatory agency, in well designed and conducted clinical trials, that the product candidate is safe and effective. If we are unable to demonstrate that a product candidate will be safe and effective in advanced clinical trials involving larger numbers of patients, we will be unable to submit the PMA, NDA or other application necessary to receive regulatory approval to commercialize the product candidate. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. We face risks that: • the product candidate may not prove to be safe or effective; • the product candidate’s benefits may not outweigh its risks; • the results from more advanced clinical trials may not confirm the positive results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may interpret data from pre-clinical and clinical testing in different ways than we interpret them; and • the FDA or other regulatory agencies may require additional or expanded trials. We have only limited experience in regulatory affairs, and some of our products may be based on new technologies. These factors may affect our ability or the time we require to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We have only limited experience in filing and prosecuting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. Moreover, some of the products that are likely to result from our product development, licensing and acquisition programs may be based on new technologies that have not been extensively tested in humans. The regulatory requirements governing these types of product candidates may be less well defined or more rigorous than for conventional products. As a result, we may experience a longer regulatory process in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals of any products that we develop, license or acquire. 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our approved products by third party payers, there may be no commercially viable markets for our approved products or the markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third party payers affect the market for our approved products. The efficacy, safety, performance and cost-effectiveness of our product and product candidates and of any competing products will determine the availability and level of reimbursement. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored healthcare and private insurance. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to produce clinical data, which may involve one or more clinical trials, that compares the cost-effectiveness of our approved products to other available therapies. We may not obtain international reimbursement or pricing approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement or pricing approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our approved products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third party payers may adversely affect the demand for our future approved products currently under development and limit our ability to sell our approved products on a profitable basis. In addition, third party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and services. If reimbursement for any approved product is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of the approved products would be impaired and our future revenues, if any, would be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with the U.S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federal health care program. The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute is very broad in scope and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. In addition, most of the states in which our approved products may be sold have adopted laws similar to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and some of these laws are even broader than the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute in that their prohibitions are not limited to items or services paid for by Federal health care program but, instead, apply regardless of the source of payment. Violations of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. All of our financial relationships with health care providers and others who provide products or services to federal health care program beneficiaries are potentially governed by the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. We believe our operations are in compliance with the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. However, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to investigations or litigation alleging violations of these laws, which could be time-consuming and costly to us and could divert management’s attention from operating our business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if our arrangements were found to violate the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute or similar state laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Patients may discontinue their participation in our clinical trials, which may negatively impact the results of these studies and extend the timeline for completion of our development programs. Clinical trials for our product candidates require sufficient patient enrollment. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely or cost-effective manner. Patients enrolled in our clinical studies may discontinue their participation at any time during the study as a result of a number of factors, including withdrawing their consent or experiencing adverse clinical events, which may or may not be judged related to our product candidates under evaluation. 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, the time required to complete clinical trials is dependent upon, among other factors, the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • the nature of the clinical protocol requirements; • the availability of other treatments or marketed therapies (whether approved or experimental); • our ability to recruit and manage clinical centers and associated trials; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; and • the patient eligibility criteria for the study. If a large number of patients in any one of our studies discontinue their participation in the study, the results from that study may not be positive or may not support a filing for regulatory approval of our product candidates. Product quality or performance issues may be discovered through ongoing regulation by the FDA and by comparable international agencies, as well as through our internal standard quality process. The medical device industry is subject to substantial regulation by the FDA and by comparable international agencies. In addition to requiring clearance or approval to market new or improved devices, we are subject to ongoing regulation as a device manufacturer. Governmental regulations cover many aspects of our operations, including quality systems, marketing and device reporting. As a result, we continually collect and analyze information about product quality and product performance through field observations, customer feedback and other quality metrics. Any product quality or performance issues that are discovered during our information collection and analysis efforts in connection with our regulatory compliance may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The use of hazardous materials in our operations may subject us to environmental claims or liability. We intend to conduct research and development and some future manufacturing operations in our Franklin, Tennessee facility. Our research and development processes will involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive compounds. We will conduct experiments that are common in the biotechnology industry, in which we may use small quantities of chemical hazards, including those that are corrosive, toxic and flammable, and trace amounts of radioactive materials. The risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials cannot be eliminated. We do not maintain a separate insurance policy for these types of risks. If there is an accident or environmental discharge or contamination, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We have a history of losses and we expect to continue to incur losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have invested and continue to invest a significant portion of our time and resources in developing and testing our product candidates. As a result of our significant research and development, clinical development, regulatory compliance and general and administrative expenses, we expect that our operating losses may continue for the next few years as we continue to incur significant expenses for clinical trials. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $93.5 million. We have ongoing pivotal clinical studies for the use of Augment for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions in the United States, Canada and the EU. In January 2008, we sold to Luitpold our remaining orofacial therapeutic business, whereas Luitpold was granted the rights to the downstream formulation, fill, finish, manufacturing and kitting of GEM 21S. This transaction has enabled us to focus our expertise and our future development efforts on our orthopedic, spine and sports medicine product candidates. This transaction leaves us without an FDA approved product currently in commercialization. 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. At December 31, 2009, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards totaling $63.3 million available to reduce our future federal income tax liabilities. Our ability to use these net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our future federal income tax liabilities may be subject to annual limitations. In connection with any future offering, we may realize a “more than fifty percent change in ownership” which could further limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards accumulated to date to reduce future taxable income and tax liabilities. Additionally, because U.S. tax laws limit the time during which net operating loss carryforwards may be applied against future taxable income and tax liabilities, we may not be able to take advantage of our net operating loss for federal income tax purposes. The inability to take advantage of all or part of our accumulated net operating loss may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We will need to raise additional capital in the future. If we are unable to successfully raise additional capital in the future, our product development could be limited and our long term viability may be threatened; however, if we do raise additional capital, your percentage ownership as a stockholder could decrease and constraints could be placed on the operation of our business. We have experienced negative operating cash flows since our inception and have funded our operations primarily from proceeds received from sales of our stock and the licensing and sale of our orofacial therapeutic business. We believe that the December 31, 2009 balance of our cash and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements at least through the middle of 2011. We may seek to obtain additional funds at any time in the future through equity or debt financings, or strategic alliances with third parties, either alone or in combination with equity financings. We may seek such additional funds regardless of the extent to which funds are raised in a public offering as identified in our shelf registration statement described below. We have filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC which has been declared effective. Although we currently have no plans to do so, under the shelf registration statement, we may from time to time, in one or more series, separately or together, sell common stock, preferred stock, debt securities or warrants to purchase our common stock or any combination of such securities. The aggregate public offering price of the securities that we may offer pursuant to the registration statement is up to $150.0 million. There can be no assurances that we will successfully raise a sufficient amount of capital in any future public offerings to fund operations through profitability. Potential financings may result in substantial dilution to the holders of our common stock or require contractual or other restrictions on our operations or on alternatives that may be available to us in considering strategic transactions, dividends or liquidation preferences, debt service and/or revenue sharing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. Any such required financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us and the failure to procure such required financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A variety of factors could impact our need to raise additional capital, the timing of any required financings and the amount of such financings. Factors that may cause our future capital requirements to be greater than anticipated or could accelerate our need for funds include, without limitation: • unforeseen developments during our pre-clinical activities and clinical trials; • delays in the timing of receipt of required regulatory approvals; • unanticipated expenditures in research and development or manufacturing activities; • delayed market acceptance of our approved product; 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS • unanticipated expenditures in the acquisition and defense of intellectual property rights; • the failure to develop strategic alliances for the marketing of some of our product candidates; • additional inventory builds to adequately support the launch of new products; • unforeseen changes in healthcare reimbursement for procedures using our approved product; • inability to train a sufficient number of surgeons to create demand for our approved product; • lack of financial resources to adequately support our operations; • difficulties in maintaining commercial scale manufacturing capacity and capability; • unforeseen problems with our third-party manufacturers and service providers or with our specialty suppliers of certain raw materials; • unanticipated difficulties in operating in international markets; • unanticipated financial resources needed to respond to technological changes and increased competition; • unforeseen problems in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to market our approved product; • enactment of new legislation or administrative regulations; • the application to our business of new court decisions and regulatory interpretations; • claims that might be brought in excess of our insurance coverage; • the failure to comply with regulatory guidelines; • unforeseen cost overruns associated with build out of our new manufacturing facility that we have leased; and • the uncertainty in industry demand and patient wellness behavior as businesses and individuals suffer from the current economic downturn. In addition, although we have no present commitments or understandings to do so, we may seek to expand our operations and product line through acquisitions or joint ventures. Any acquisition or joint venture would likely increase our capital requirements. If adequate financing is not available, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate our operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our business, operating results and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting. This report, which is included in this annual report, contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not our internal controls are effective. This annual report contains a statement that our independent auditors have issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. In 2007, we began to document and evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significant costs, and the commitment of time and operational resources. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent auditors are unable to express an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, then the market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer. 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will be highly volatile. The current, active and liquid trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any securities analysts will initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our common stock. The trading prices of the securities of medical technology and biotechnology companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include, among other things: • whether we receive FDA approval to market any of our product candidates in the United States or similar regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions; • whether we successfully commercialize Augment in Canada or any other approved product in the future; • developments relating to patents, proprietary rights and potential infringement; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial products; • reimbursement policies of various governmental and third party payers; • public concern over the safety and efficacy of GEM 21S, Augment or any of our product candidates; • changes in estimates of our revenue and operating results; • variances in our revenue or operating results from forecasts or projections; • recommendations of securities analysts regarding investment in our stock; • our ability to maintain and/or raise sufficient capital to fund our operations until we are able to commercialize a product candidate and become profitable; and • market conditions in our industry and the current economic downturn as a whole. If our future quarterly or annual operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock will likely decline. In addition, share price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals or milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we expect that we will publicly announce the anticipated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, our stock price may decline and the commercialization of our product and product candidates may be delayed. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock may drop significantly if our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. All of the shares sold in our May 2006 initial public offering, our February 2007 secondary offering and our June 2009 rights offering are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, except for shares purchased by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We expect that we also will be required to register any securities sold in future private financings. In addition, all of our common stock issued prior to our initial public offering is freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless owned by our affiliates. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2009, holders of approximately 2,816,309 shares of common stock may have piggyback registration rights with respect to their shares in connection with future offerings. Those registration rights will 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS expire upon the earlier of the transfer of those shares by the holder of the rights or the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering. Sales by stockholders of substantial amounts of our shares, including sales by Novo A/S or InterWest Partners, or the perception that these sales may occur in the future, could affect materially and adversely the market price of our common stock. At December 31, 2009, there were options issued and outstanding to purchase 2,543,235 shares of our common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $9.45. Also at December 31, 2009, there were 629,977 options available for future for issuance of options under our stock option plans. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates maintain the ability to substantially influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. As of December 31, 2009, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned shares representing approximately 34.4% of our capital stock. This total includes 1,830,253 shares (8.4% of our capital stock) owned by InterWest Partners, X, L.P. and its affiliates. Chris Ehrlich, one of our directors, is an affiliate of InterWest Partners. This total also includes 3,720,065 shares (17.0% of our capital stock) owned by Novo A/S. Thorkil K. Christensen, one of our directors, is the Chief Financial Officer of Novo A/S. Accordingly, our current executive officers, directors and their affiliates have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions, as well as management and affairs. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control of us at a premium price if these stockholders oppose it, even if it would benefit our other stockholders. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us. Provisions of our corporate charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 