ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those described below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be considered carefully before you decide whether to buy, hold or sell our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial conditions, results of operations and stock price. If global economic conditions deteriorate, our business and financial results could be affected. We develop and distribute educational entertainment for children. Our performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending. Consumers’ discretionary purchases of educational entertainment items for children may be impacted by unemployment, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit, falling home prices, lower consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors that affect consumer spending behavior. In addition, the stability of the European Union and the debt crisis in certain of its member states poses a significant threat to the global economy as a whole. Although discretionary consumer spending in the U.S. and around the world has recovered from the lows experienced in the most recent economic recession, deterioration of global economic conditions could potentially have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 9 Our business depends on our ability to correctly predict highly changeable consumer preferences and product trends. We operate in an industry where consumer preferences can change drastically from year to year. Even our successful products typically have a relatively short period of high demand followed by a decrease in demand as the products mature. For example, net sales of the classic Leapster platform peaked in 2006 and are no longer material to our overall sales. We depend on our ability to correctly identify changing consumer sentiments well in advance and supply new products that respond to such changes on a timely basis. In addition, we rely on our ability to identify third party entertainment media that is likely to be popular with consumers and license rights to such media to incorporate into many of our products. Consumer preferences, and particularly children’s preferences, are continually changing and are difficult to predict. Since our products typically have a long development cycle, in some cases lasting over a year, it can be difficult to predict correctly changing consumer preferences and technology, entertainment and education trends. If we are unable to correctly predict consumer preferences and successfully integrate popular third-party media and technology with our own, it would negatively impact our operating results. To remain competitive and stimulate consumer demand, we must continue to develop new products and services and successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industries in which we compete, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. In 2010 and 2011, we introduced a number of new products and services to the market that represented a substantial portion of our 2011 sales and, in some cases, represented a significant change in the way we interact with consumers. For example, in 2011 we launched the LeapFrog App Center, which allows consumers to download content for use with some of our products directly from us, instead of purchasing game cartridges from our retailers. In addition, some of the key products launched in recent years, including our 2011 release of the LeapPad, have a high price point compared to other children’s products. We cannot be sure that any new products or services will be widely accepted and purchased by consumers or that we will be able to successfully manage product introductions and transitions. Failure by consumers to accept our new products and services or to pay a higher price for some of our key products, or our failure to manage product introductions and transitions, could adversely affect our operating results. We rely on a small group of retailers that together accounted for the vast majority of our gross sales each year, and our dependence upon them may increase. Our top three retailers in 2011 were Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us and Target, which accounted for approximately 64% of the U.S. segment’s gross sales in 2011 and 65% in 2010. In addition, Wal-Mart and Toys “R” Us accounted for approximately 30% of the international segment’s gross sales in 2011 and 32% in 2010. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on a small number of large retailers for the majority of our sales domestically and abroad. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our retailers. As a result, agreements with respect to pricing, shelf space, cooperative advertising or special promotions, among other things, are subject to periodic negotiation with each retailer. Retailers are continually re-evaluating shelf space allocations to optimize store traffic and financial returns. This process has placed increasing pressure on the toy aisle, which in some instances has been or may, in the future, be reduced in size. In addition, retailers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering one-time purchase orders. If any of these retailers reduce their purchases from us, change the terms on which we conduct business with them or experience a downturn in their business or constraint on their credit and ability to pay their invoices as they become due, our business and operating results could be harmed. 10 We rely on our retail customers to successfully sell through our products to consumers. Economic and other factors that affect retailers, such as liquidity problems, reduced access to credit, inability to raise capital, reduced sales, consolidation in the retail sector and store closures, bankruptcies and lower consumer confidence, will also affect us. Negative conditions for retailers, which are generally out of our control, could adversely impact our ability to sell our products to consumers thereby affecting our operating results. We depend on our suppliers for our components and raw materials, and our production or operating margins would be harmed if the cost of our raw materials were to significantly increase or if these suppliers are not able to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available. Because some of the components used to make our products currently come from single or a limited number of suppliers, we are subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many components that are available from multiple sources are at times subject to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. If our suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components and raw materials and if we are unable to obtain an alternative source or if the price available from our current suppliers or an alternative source is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed and our operating results would suffer. In addition, as we do not have long-term agreements with our major suppliers and cannot guarantee their stability, they may stop manufacturing our components at any time, with little or no notice. For example, in 2010, a sole-source supplier of an ASIC for one of our reading systems informed us that it was having financial difficulties, which required us to negotiate the purchase of certain intangible assets from the supplier in order to continue production of the ASIC. In addition, if we are required to use alternative sources, we may be required to redesign some aspects of the affected products, which may involve delays and additional expense. For example, the 2011 tsunami in Japan required us to replace a chip in the LeapPad. Although the introduction of the new chip did not ultimately increase our cost for the product or materially affect its performance, it introduced additional complexity into our supply chain and manufacturing processes, strained our internal resources and introduced risk to our launch date. If there are any significant interruptions in the supply of components or if prices rise significantly, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our finished products or we may be unable to manufacture them at targeted cost levels, and our business and operating results could be harmed. Our business is highly seasonal, and our annual operating results depend, in large part, on sales relating to the brief holiday season. Sales of consumer electronics and toy products in the retail channel are highly seasonal, causing a substantial majority of our sales to retailers to occur during the third and fourth quarters. Even though we achieved net income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred losses in the first and second quarters of 2011. Approximately 79%, 76% and 79% of our total net sales occurred during the second half of fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The percentage of total net sales in the second half of the year may increase as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through just-in-time inventory management systems, particularly as they remain cautious about over-ordering products prior to the holiday season in view of uncertain economic conditions. Generally, retailers time their orders so that suppliers will fill the orders closer to the time of purchase by consumers, thereby reducing their need to maintain larger on-hand inventories throughout the year to meet demand. If a decline in the economy, or other factors, lead to a decline of net sales in the third or fourth quarter in particular, it can have a disproportionate negative impact on our results for the year. In addition, soft consumer sales during the holiday season can lead to ongoing weakness in sales to retailers well into the following year. For example, after a strong start to the 2010 holiday season, many retailers, including our online store, leapfrog.com, experienced a decrease in demand late in the quarter relative to expectations. This decrease in demand lead to higher inventory levels in the first half of 2011 and led to lower net sales during that period. Failure to predict accurately and respond appropriately to retailer and consumer demand on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations, or any disruption of consumer buying habits during this key period (as demonstrated during and after the recent economic crisis) would harm our business and operating results. 11 Our growing strategic focus on online products and services may not succeed, and may limit the adoption of our products in some international markets. We continue to build a marketing and sales model that relies on linking directly to consumers through the Internet and we cannot be sure it will be successful. Many of our current and planned key products, such as the LeapPad, the Leapster Explorer, the Tag reading system and some of our recent learning toys, are designed to be connected to a computer that has Internet access in order to access content and features. In addition, our recently launched App Center is designed to allow us to sell more content to consumers directly. As we focus on Internet-based products and direct to consumer relationships, any resistance by parents to buying children’s products requiring installation of software on a computer and connecting the product to a computer could have a more pronounced effect on our business. If we are unable to design our App Center experience in a way that is satisfying to consumers or if parents are reluctant to download content through our App Center onto their children’s products, it would negatively affect our results and impair our future growth. Also, adoption of Internet-based products may be limited in regions where broadband Internet access is not widespread, such as in some international markets. If parents fail to sign up for the Learning Path or use it at lower rates than we expect, or choose not to permit us to send them marketing email, or if our web efforts prove ineffective at generating repeat customers, our investment in building, maintaining and improving our Internet-based services may not yield the return on our investment that we anticipate. See also “System failures in our online services or web store could harm our business” below. System failures in our online services or web store could harm our business. The online aspects of our business have grown substantially in strategic importance to our overall business. Any failure to provide a positive user experience could have a negative impact on our reputation, sales and consumer relationships. If demand for accessing our App Center or our website exceeds the capacity we have planned to handle during peak periods or if other technical issues arise when customers attempt to use these systems to purchase products or to access features or content for our Internet-connected products, then we could lose sales and customers could be inconvenienced or become dissatisfied with our products. Any significant disruption to our App Center, website or internal computer systems or malfunctions related to transaction processing on our e-commerce store or content management systems could result in a loss of potential or existing customers and sales. Although our systems have been designed to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. Any unplanned disruption of our systems could result in adverse financial impact to our operations. We rely on a limited number of manufacturers to produce our finished products, and our reputation and operating results could be harmed if they fail to produce quality products in a timely and cost-effective manner and in sufficient quantities or if our manufacturing process is otherwise disrupted. We outsource substantially all of our manufacturing to several Asian manufacturers, most of which manufacture our products at facilities in the Guangdong province in the southeastern region of China. These manufacturers are selected based on their technical and production capabilities and are matched to particular products to achieve cost and quality efficiencies. We depend on these manufacturers to produce sufficient volumes of our finished products in a timely fashion, at satisfactory cost and quality levels and in accordance with our and our customers’ terms of engagement. If we determine that we need to order larger quantities of our products to meet customer demand, we may encounter delays and shortfalls in shipments based on manufacturer capacity issues. Such delays could have a particularly significant impact on our business to the extent that retailers attempt to manage their inventory levels by delaying orders, which may lead to shorter lead times to match changes in consumer demand. In addition, the costs of using contract manufacturers are subject to increase, which has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our cost of sales. Commodity and labor costs in China continue to increase due to a variety of factors, including tightening Chinese labor markets, delays in ramping up production of raw materials to meet growing demand for finished goods, and the revaluation of Chinese currency to permit it to rise in value versus the U.S. dollar, among other things, leading to increased prices for us with some of our contract manufacturers. Furthermore, in the past, there have been product quality and safety issues for other producers of toys and other companies that manufacture goods in China. In addition, the risk of political instability and civil unrest exists in China, which could temporarily or permanently damage our manufacturing operations located there. If our manufacturers fail or are unable to produce quality finished products on time, at expected cost targets and in sufficient quantities, or if any of our products are found to be tainted or otherwise raise health or safety concerns, our reputation and operating results would suffer. 12 See also “Political developments, including trade relations, natural disasters, the threat or occurrence of armed hostilities, terrorism, labor strikes or public health issues could have a material adverse effect on our business” below. If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, or on a timely basis, or if inventory levels are too high, our operating results will be adversely affected. The high degree of seasonality of our business places stringent demands on our inventory forecasting and production planning processes. This inventory management approach may be particularly challenging when combined with “just-in-time” inventory management systems increasingly used by retailers as they remain cautious about future inventory levels. If we fail to meet tight shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our merchandise on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If our inventory forecasting and production planning processes result in our maintaining manufacturing inventory in excess of the levels demanded by our customers, we could be required to record inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. If the inventory of our products held by retailers is too high, they may not place or may reduce orders for additional products, which would unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results. For example, high inventory levels at the end of 2010 adversely impacted our 2011 net sales, particularly during the first half of the year, which were 10% lower than the same period of 2010. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our sales and market share could decline. We currently compete primarily in the learning toy and electronic learning aids category of the U.S. toy industry and, to some degree, in the overall U.S. and international toy industry. We believe we compete to some extent, and may increasingly compete in the future, with makers of popular game platforms, electronic entertainment devices, smart mobile devices and tablets. Each of these markets is very competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. Many of our direct, indirect and potential competitors have significantly longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to changes in consumer requirements or preferences or to new or emerging technologies, and may be able to use their economies of scale to produce products more cheaply. Further, with greater economies of scale and more distribution channels, they may be successful even if they sell at a lower margin. Our larger competitors may also be able to devote substantially greater resources, including personnel, spending and facilities to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to include intellectual property owned by others in our games, our operating results will suffer. Among our proprietary rights are inbound licenses from third parties for content, such as characters, stories, music, illustrations and trade names, and for technologies we incorporate in our products including key technology used in our Tag and Tag Junior reading systems. In particular, we rely on our ability to acquire rights to popular entertainment media properties for content on our multimedia learning platforms and learn to read systems. Our continued use of these rights is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain these license rights and at reasonable rates. Any failure to do so could significantly impact our content sales or interrupt our supply chain and require us to modify our products or business plans. 13 Third parties have claimed, and may claim in the future, that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may not succeed in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights. In the course of our business, we periodically receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. If we, our distributors, our licensors or our manufacturers are adjudged to be infringing the intellectual property rights of any third party, we or they may be required to obtain a license to use those rights, which may not be obtainable on reasonable terms, if at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development and sale of some of our products or against the use of a trademark or copyright in the sale of some of our products. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all the liability that could be imposed. In addition, we rely, and plan to continue to rely, on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Contractual arrangements and other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter independent third-party development of similar technologies. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where we do not hold patents or trademarks or where the laws may not protect our intellectual property as fully as in the U.S. Some of our products and product features have limited intellectual property protection, and, as a consequence, we may not have the legal right to prevent others from reverse engineering or otherwise copying and using these features in competitive products. In addition, monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is costly, and any dispute or other litigation, regardless of outcome, may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. However, if we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our rights could be diminished and our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. Any errors or defects contained in our products, or our failure to comply with applicable safety standards, could result in recalls, delayed shipments, rejection of our products and damage to our reputation, and could expose us to regulatory or other legal action. Our products may contain errors or defects that are discovered after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products by our retailers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims. Individuals could sustain injuries from our products, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from such injuries. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. Moreover, we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. Concerns about potential public harm and liability may involve involuntary recalls or lead us to voluntarily recall selected products. Recalls or post-manufacture repairs of our products could harm our reputation and our competitive position, increase our costs or reduce our net sales. Costs related to unexpected defects include the costs of writing down the value of our inventory of defective products and providing product replacement, as well as the cost of defending against litigation related to the defective products. Further, as a result of recent recalls and safety issues related to products of a number of manufacturers in the toy industry, some of our retail customers have been increasing their testing requirements of the products we ship to them. These additional requirements may result in delayed or cancelled shipments, increased logistics and quality assurance costs, or both, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, recalls or post-manufacturing repairs by other companies in our industry could affect consumer behavior and cause reduced purchases of our products and increase our quality assurance costs in allaying consumer concerns. 14 Privacy concerns about our Internet-connected products and related content and applications could harm our reputation and hinder adoption of these products. By using the online LeapFrog Connect application, information captured by our Internet-connected products about a child’s performance and activities will be transferred and stored on our servers. Due to privacy, confidentiality and security concerns, parents may not want us to collect information about their child’s activities and performance and may not feel comfortable uploading and storing this information on our servers. If these concerns prevent parents from accepting or adopting our connected products, sales of our products and our business results could suffer and our plans to expand this portion of our business could be affected. In addition, if the confidentiality of such information stored on our website servers is compromised or breached by third parties, our reputation could be tarnished or we could be subject to litigation, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. Our liquidity may be insufficient to meet the long-term or periodic needs of our business. Global credit market fluctuations could increase the cost of capital or limit our ability to raise additional capital should we need it and unforeseen events could stress or exceed our current or future liquidity. In addition to cash received from the collection of accounts receivable, from time to time, we may fund our operations and strengthen our liquidity through borrowings under our line of credit. Our line of credit has numerous financial tests and covenants that affect the amount we can borrow, and includes various events of default that could impair our ability to access credit under the credit line. In addition, the line of credit terminates in August 2013 and we cannot be sure whether we will be able to renew it on similar terms or at all. If we are unable to borrow sufficient funds in a timely manner or at an acceptable cost, we may need to alter our business practices. For example, we may be required to manufacture at levels that lag rather than anticipate future order levels, which could limit our ability to sell and ship our products as demand increases, delaying our ability to benefit from improvements in the retail sales environment. Our international business may not succeed and subjects us to risks associated with international operations. We derived approximately 25%, 20% and 19% of our net sales from markets outside the U.S. during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our efforts to increase sales for our products outside the U.S. may not be successful and may not achieve higher sales or gross margins or contribute to profitability. Our business is, and will increasingly be, subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: •the appeal of our products in international markets; •difficulties managing and maintaining relationships with vendors, customers, retailers, distributors and other commercial partners; •greater difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; •transportation delays and interruptions, including cross-border delays due to customs clearance and other point of entry restrictions; •greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; •compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws; •trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; •currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; and •limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings. Sales to our international customers are transacted primarily in the country’s local currency. If foreign currency weakens compared to the U.S. dollar, our International segment sales results will suffer. Any difficulties with our international operations could harm our future sales and operating results. 15 We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations that could impose additional costs or changes on the conduct of our business. We operate in a highly regulated environment with international, federal, state and local governmental entities regulating many aspects of our business, including products and the importation of products. Regulations with which we must comply include accounting standards, taxation requirements (including changes in applicable income tax rates, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), trade restrictions, regulations regarding financial matters, environmental regulations, privacy, advertising directed toward children, safety and other administrative and regulatory restrictions. We are also subject to regulation by the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission and other similar federal, state and international regulatory authorities, some of which have conflicting standards and requirements. Compliance with the various laws and regulations and other requirements of regulatory authorities could impose additional costs on the conduct of our business. For example, if our products were made subject to an involuntary recall or other action by one of the regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over us, we may have to write off inventory and allow our customers to return products they purchased from us. Moreover, any failures to comply with laws and regulations could lead to significant negative media attention and consumer dissatisfaction, which could harm our sales and lead to widespread rejection of our products, particularly since we rely so heavily on the integrity of our brand. In addition, numerous states have enacted, and many others are considering enacting, laws directed at manufacturers regarding recycling of electronic products. While we take steps that we believe are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we have achieved compliance or that we will be in compliance in the future. Failure to comply with the relevant regulations could result in monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in laws or regulations may lead to increased costs, changes in our effective tax rate, or the interruption of normal business operations that would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Political developments, including trade relations, natural disasters, the threat or occurrence of armed hostilities, terrorism, labor strikes or public health issues could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is international in scope. The deterioration of the political situation in a country in which we have significant sales, operations or third party manufacturers or suppliers, or the breakdown of trade relations between the U.S. and a foreign country in which we have or utilize significant manufacturing facilities or have other operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, a change in trade status for China could result in a substantial increase in the import duty of toys manufactured in China and imported into the U.S. In addition, armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues, whether in the U.S. or abroad could cause damage and disruption to our company, our suppliers, our manufacturers, or our customers or could create political or economic instability, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Although it is impossible to predict the consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our product or create delay or inefficiencies in our supply chain by making it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products to our customers, or for our manufacturers to deliver products to us, or suppliers to provide component parts. Notably, our U.S. distribution centers, including our distribution center in Fontana, California, and our corporate headquarters are located in California near major earthquake faults that have experienced earthquakes in the past and are expected to do so in the future. In addition to the factors noted above, our existing earthquake insurance relating to our distribution center may be insufficient and does not cover any of our other operations. The loss of members of our executive management team or other key employees could adversely affect our business. We have had a number of changes to our executive management team during 2010 and 2011. These changes had an immediate financial impact as a result of the payment of severance compensation and charges associated with equity grants for the retention of new management. While these changes can be a positive long-term change for us, there is an inherent loss of institutional knowledge associated with such turnover and this may create a risk, among other things, of overloading the remaining executives. In addition, transition associated with such changes has required, and may continue to require, significant management attention and consumption of time and resources, diverting away from the regular operations of our business. New executives typically bring change to an organization, as a result of implementing new goals and plans, which in turn can lead to changes in operating direction and the associated impact on the operations of the business, which may be uncertain or unknown. Furthermore, we cannot provide any assurances that we will retain our new or existing management and other key employees. Competition for high caliber personnel is strong in our area and industry. The loss of services of members of our executive management team or other key employees could have an adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to retain key personnel, then it may be difficult for us to maintain a competitive position within our industry or implement our strategic priorities. 16 A few stockholders control a majority of our voting power. The majority of holders of our Class A common stock may not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote. Our Class A common stock entitles its holders to one vote per share, and our Class B common stock entitles its holders to ten votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, Lawrence J. Ellison and entities controlled by him beneficially owned approximately 6.7 million shares of our Class B common stock and 3.8 million shares of our Class A common stock, while Michael Milken and Lowell Milken together owned directly and indirectly approximately 3.6 million shares of our Class B common stock and 0.9 million shares of our Class A common stock. Together, these three stockholders represented approximately 64.87% of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock as of December 31, 2011. As a result, Mr. Ellison and Messrs. Michael and Lowell Milken, if voting together may be able to determine stockholder vote outcomes, including with respect to: •the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; •any determinations with respect to mergers, other business combinations, or changes in control; •our acquisition or disposition of assets; and •our financing activities. Mr. Ellison and Messrs. Michael and Lowell Milken could have interests that diverge from those of our other stockholders. This control by a few stockholders could depress the market price of our Class A common stock; deter, delay or prevent a change in control of LeapFrog; or affect other significant corporate transactions that otherwise might be viewed as beneficial for other stockholders. Our stock price has been volatile over the past several years and could decline in the future, resulting in losses for our investors and harming the employee-retention and recruiting value of our equity compensation. All the factors discussed in this section or any other material announcements could affect our stock price. Speculation in the media and analyst communities, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock and market trends unrelated to our stock can cause the price of our stock to change. For example, in the past our operating results have frequently failed to meet analysts’ expectations, negatively impacting the price of our stock. A significant drop in the price of our stock could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, adversely affecting our business. Our future success depends partly on the continued contribution of our key executives and technical, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel. Part of our compensation package includes stock and/or stock options. To the extent our stock performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees, potentially resulting in lost institutional knowledge and key talent. Changes in compensation packages or costs could impact our profitability and/or our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 