1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 2. Properties 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 16 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 16 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 17 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 66 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 66 Item 9B. Other Information 68 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 69 Item 11. Executive Compensation 69 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 69 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 70 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 70 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 71 Signatures 72 Power of Attorney 73 Exhibit Index 74 Appendix A Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Allowances A-1 i Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS LeapFrog Enterprises, Inc. (“LeapFrog,” “we,” “us” or “our”), founded in 1995 and incorporated in 1997 in the State of Delaware, is a leading developer of educational entertainment for children. Our product portfolio consists of multimedia learning platforms and related content and learning toys. We have developed a number of learning platforms, including the LeapPad family of learning tablets, the Leapster family of handheld learning game systems and the LeapReader reading systems, which facilitate a wide variety of learning experiences provided by our rich content libraries, available in cartridge, print and digital format. We have created hundreds of interactive content titles for our platforms, covering subjects such as phonics, reading, writing, mathematics, science, social studies, creativity and life skills. In addition, we have a broad line of stand-alone learning toys. Many of our products connect to our proprietary online LeapFrog Learning Path (the “Learning Path”), which provides personalized feedback on a child’s learning progress and offers product recommendations to enhance each child’s learning experience. Our products are available in four languages and are sold globally through retailers, distributors and directly to consumers via the leapfrog.com online store and the LeapFrog App Center (“App Center”). LeapFrog is headquartered in Emeryville, California. Business Segments and Operations We organize, operate and assess our business in two primary operating segments: United States (“U.S.”) and International. Refer to Note 20—“Segment Reporting” in our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for detailed information on our segments and their financial results for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. The operations of our business segments are described below. •United States: The U.S. segment is responsible for the development, design, sale and marketing of multimedia learning platforms, related content and learning toys, which are sold primarily through retailers, distributors, and directly to consumers via the leapfrog.com online store and the App Center in the U.S. The App Center includes both content developed by us and content from third parties that we curate and distribute. The U.S. segment represented approximately 70%, 73% and 75% of our consolidated net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The vast majority of this segment’s net sales are to three large retailers. Sales invoiced to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”), Toys “R” Us, Inc. (“Toys “R” Us”) and Target Corporation (“Target”), in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 63%, 66% and 64% of the segment’s gross sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Each of these customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated and U.S. segment’s gross sales in each of 2013, 2012 and 2011. Accordingly, the loss of any of these three customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. •International: The International segment is responsible for the localization, sale and marketing of multimedia learning platforms, related content, and learning toys, originally developed for the U.S. This segment markets and sells our products to national and regional mass-market and specialty retailers and other outlets through our offices in the United Kingdom, France and Canada, through distributors in various markets such as Australia, South Africa, Mexico and Spain, and directly to consumers via online stores and, beginning in late 2011, the App Center. The International segment represented approximately 30%, 27% and 25% of our consolidated net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In 2013, the United Kingdom accounted for 11% of our consolidated net sales, but no other single country represented 10% or more and no single country represented 10% or more of our consolidated net sales in 2012 and 2011. Sales invoiced to Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us and Target, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 26%, 27% and 30% of the segment’s gross sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Product Portfolio Our product portfolio consists of the following: 1 Multimedia Learning Platforms: Our multimedia learning platform products include innovative features that facilitate a wide variety of learning experiences provided by our rich content libraries available in cartridge, print and digitally-downloadable forms. All of our multimedia learning platforms connect to the Internet and our LeapFrog Learning Path, either directly through a kid-safe Wi-Fi enabled web experience, or through a connection to a laptop or desktop computer. •LeapPad Learning Tablet Systems The LeapPad learning tablet line is our line of children’s learning tablets for children ages three to nine, with built-in cameras for taking photographs and videos, and certain on-board content and utilities. LeapPad tablets are compatible with our LeapFrog Learning Library in both cartridge and digital format. In 2013, we launched LeapPad Ultra, with a high-resolution seven-inch screen, built-in battery and Wi-Fi features and a kid-safe web experience, and LeapPad2 Power, an enhanced version of LeapPad2, which includes rechargeable batteries. •Leapster Learning Game Systems Our line of Leapster handheld learning game systems is for children ages four to nine. The latest version in this line is LeapsterGS, with motion-based play, a built-in camera and video recorder, kid-friendly controls, and a recharger pack option. LeapsterGS is compatible with our LeapFrog Learning Library in both cartridge and digital format. •LeapReader Learning Systems The LeapReader learning systems line of products consists of the LeapReader reading and writing system, a stylus-based learn-to-read-and-write product, designed for children ages four to eight, and the LeapReader Junior reading system, a ready-to read system for children ages one to four. The LeapReader reading and writing system replaced our Tag reader line of products in the learn-to-read segment and represents our continual drive to bring innovation to this segment, with an internal rechargeable battery, enhanced writing feedback capabilities, and new writing and audio book content. The LeapReader reading and writing system combines essential literacy skills: reading, writing and listening, while our LeapReader Junior ready-to-read systems introduces young children, to books and reading and to develop book-basics and early vocabulary and other preschool skills. LeapReader learning systems are compatible with select digital downloads from our LeapFrog Learning Library. •Content Our LeapFrog Learning Library consists of over 1,200 downloadable digital content titles available for sale via our App Center that are exclusively compatible with one or more of our LeapPad, Leapster or LeapReader products. Our library includes a wide variety of learning games, videos, music, flashcards, interactive storybooks and other learning content that cover educational cornerstones such as math, reading, writing, geography and sciences, as well as other topics such as life skills, creativity through art, music and imaginative play, among others. Within our content offering, we curate and distribute content from nearly 50 content partners, including videos and music from premium children’s content providers such as Disney, Nickelodeon, Mattel, Hasbro and Kidz Bop and interactive educational content from third parties for our platforms, including content developed by Disney and Scholastic. We also sell over 50 educational learning games in cartridge format, which are compatible with our LeapPad and Leapster systems. Our cartridges also cover educational cornerstones such as math, reading, writing, geography and sciences, as well as other topics such as life skills, creativity through art, music and imaginative play, among others. We have a LeapReader system library of more than 150 books, maps and games for our LeapReader and LeapReader Junior products, designed to guide children through their learn-to-read journey, from their early exploration of board books with LeapReader Junior through LeapReader adventures that bring reading skills to life. 2 Our content features proprietary LeapFrog characters such as the LeapFrog Frogs, Scout and Violet, Mr. Pencil, Pet Pals and Stretchy Monkey, among others, as well as popular licensed characters from Disney, Nickelodeon, Dreamworks, Mattel, Hasbro, and other licensing partners, including Sofia the First, Doc McStuffins, the Disney Princesses, Jake and the Neverland Pirates, Cars, Planes, Dora the Explorer, Thomas the Tank Engine, Transformers and My Little Pony, among others. Learning Toys: Our learning toys are generally designed for children from birth to age four and combine education, innovation and the joy of play. The toys are intended to support the development of a number of important skills for infants and young children, including phoneme, letter, number and color recognition, musical awareness and fine motor skills. Learning toys, because of their low price points and younger audience, create customer entry points to the LeapFrog brand that facilitate graduation to our multimedia learning platforms. Our learning toys include our Scout puppy collection, a line featuring our proprietary Scout and Violet puppy dog characters, which includes My Pal Scout and My Pal Violet, Scribble & Write, Count & Draw, Chat & Count, My Own Leaptop, Learn & Groove Music Player, My Talking LapPup and Read With Me Scout & Violet. We also have our Touch Magic line of interactive toys, which encourages learning and exploration through intuitive touch technology. In addition, we have a general line of learning toys which includes the new 2013 launches of LeapFrog Sing & Play Farm, LeapFrog AlphaPup, Lil’ Phone Pal, Learn to Write with Mr. Pencil, Creativity Camera and Musical Rainbow Tea Party. These join our existing line of learning toys that includes product such as Shapes and Sharing Picnic Basket, Letter Factory Phonics, Animal Adventure Learning Table, AlphaZoo Spinner, Poppin’ Play Piano, and Musical Counting Pal, among others. Online Services: •LeapFrog Learning Path: The Learning Path is a web-based service that we first introduced in 2008. The Learning Path is a unique tool for parents, designed specifically to help support and guide their child's learning with personalized ideas and feedback, fun activities and expert advice. The Learning Path combines our proprietary curriculum and technology with the power of the web to bring new levels of engagement, customization and personalization to LeapFrog products. The Learning Path builds direct one-to-one customer relationships with parents by empowering them with personalized feedback about their children’s learning progress and by suggesting specific LeapFrog products that will further develop their children’s skills. The Learning Path is a key component of our strategy to build direct relationships with parents, keeping them engaged with us as their children grow, and giving them access to hundreds of activities, learning tips, videos, printables and more, that are tailored to their child's learning stage. During 2013, we launched a new component of the Learning Path, available as a free downloadable app for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, that provides a weekly newsletter with resources and activities for children in order to drive engagement with the LeapFrog brand and our products. •LeapFrog App Center: During 2011, we launched our App Center, through which customers can purchase and download digital content for their LeapPad, Leapster and LeapReader products, with a personal credit card, PayPal or with App Center cards purchased at retailers or on our online store. The App Center sells a wide variety of learning games, videos, music, flashcards, interactive storybooks and other educational content. The App Center includes content developed by us, and content from third parties that we curate and distribute and content developed by third parties for our platforms. For information on sales of product lines that constituted 10% or more of total net sales by segment, see Note 20—“Segment Reporting” in our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information about the risks associated with our new products, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“Our business depends on our ability to correctly predict highly changeable consumer preferences and product trends” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Competition We currently compete in the learning toy and electronic learning-aids categories of the U.S. and international toy market, with makers of children’s tablets and, to a lesser extent, with general purpose tablets, eBook readers, mobile devices and mobile game platforms. While our learning toys compete mainly in the learning toy and electronic learning-aids markets, our multimedia learning platforms increasingly compete in a broader arena with a variety of electronic products including tablet computers, eBook readers and mobile devices. The LeapPad family of learning tablets and the Leapster platform also compete against handheld gaming platforms and against kid-targeted tablets that are sold in either the toy section or consumer electronics section of stores. Competition is significant in all of these markets. We believe the principal areas of competition in our industry are the quality of learning content, brand recognition, price, performance and features. We believe our products compete favorably in these areas. We believe the LeapFrog brand is recognized for comparably higher quality educational products, enabling us to compare favorably with many of our current competitors despite premium pricing. In addition, we believe our learning toy product category is an important competitive differentiator because it introduces parents to the LeapFrog brand, provides an entry point to the Learning Path and supports our associated strategy to build direct relationships with customers. We face the challenge of competitors introducing similar products or functionality soon after we introduce our new products or product lines, and these competitors may be able to offer their products at lower prices using cheaper manufacturing processes or materials, more limited functionality, more limited educational content, or reduced safety features. In addition, we focus on the educational aspect of our content, ensuring that each piece of content is based on age-appropriate educational curricula. In contrast, many of our competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and low cost content that lack significant educational value. Many of our direct, indirect and potential competitors have significantly longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our principal competitors in the learning toy category have included Mattel, Inc., primarily under its Fisher-Price brand, Hasbro, Inc. and its Playskool division, and VTech Holdings Ltd. The primary competitors for our multimedia learning products are kid-targeted tablets from Fuhu and VTech and, to a lesser extent, general tablet computers and eBook readers from Apple, Amazon and Samsung, and the Sony and Nintendo handheld gaming systems. For information on how competition could affect our business, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our sales and market share could decline.” Our products also compete for the leisure time of children and the discretionary spending of parents with other forms of media and entertainment. We design our products to bring fun to learning in order to compete favorably with these outside competitive influences. Manufacturing We are committed to designing and manufacturing products that meet or exceed applicable safety and regulatory requirements. As is the case with most toy manufacturers and many consumer electronics companies, most of our products are manufactured in China. We actively manage our supplier base, mandating compliance with U.S. and international safety inspections and enforcing our product standards. Our standards require that we meet or exceed all applicable regulatory requirements regarding safety in the design, manufacture, packaging, and delivery into the hands of each product’s ultimate user, a child. Our quality control system processes include product testing and verification for safety and reliability, starting in the design phase of a product’s life cycle and continuing through production and field support. For more information about the adverse effects that could result from possible errors or defects in our products, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“Any defects contained in our products, or our failure to comply with applicable safety standards, could result in recalls, delayed shipments, rejection of our products, product liability and damage to our reputation, and could expose us to litigation or regulatory action.” 4 Our manufacturing and operations strategy is designed to maximize the use of outsourced services, particularly with respect to the actual production and physical distribution of our products. We outsource substantially all of our manufacturing using several Asia-based manufacturers, most of which manufacture our products at facilities in the Guangdong province in the southeastern region of China. These manufacturers are selected based on their technical and production capabilities and are matched to particular products to achieve cost and quality efficiencies. We depend on these manufacturers to produce sufficient volumes of our finished products in a timely fashion, at satisfactory cost and quality levels, and in accordance with our and our customers’ terms of engagement. Labor costs in China continue to increase due to a variety of factors. For information on the potential business risk resulting from our reliance on contract manufacturers, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—"Our reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers to produce the majority of our products presents risks to our business.” We have established subsidiaries in Hong Kong and Shenzhen, China to work closely with our contract manufacturing service providers. These subsidiaries manage product design, the supply of raw materials, labor and the assembly process. Most of our products are manufactured from basic raw materials such as plastic and paper, and a majority of our products require electronic components. These raw materials are readily available from a variety of sources, but may be subject to significant price fluctuations. Some of the electronic components used to make our products, including our application-specific integrated circuits (“ASIC”), currently come from single suppliers. For information as to how this concentration of suppliers could affect our business, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“ Significant increases in the cost of our components and raw materials or an inability to obtain these in sufficient quantities from our suppliers or alternative sources could negatively impact our financial results.” Research and Development We design our multimedia learning platforms and related content, learning toys, and online services using a combination of in-house research and development (“R&D”) resources and outside consultants. Generally, once the design phase of the product is complete, the remaining development and manufacturing of the products are outsourced to third parties. Our total R&D expense was $35.9 million, $36.6 million and $33.8 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. •Multimedia Learning Platform and Learning Toy Development: We believe that investment in R&D is a critical factor in strengthening our product portfolio. We have assembled a team of specialists with backgrounds in a wide variety of fields, including education, child development, hardware engineering, software development, content development, video games and toys. We have internally developed each of our current multimedia learning platforms using licensed technology, if warranted. For example, we use a version of Macromedia’s Flash player in our LeapPad and Leapster multimedia learning platforms. We also use optical pattern recognition hardware and software from Anoto AB in our LeapReader line of products. We have internally developed the majority of our learning toys. •Content Development: Our content production department oversees development of our interactive books, educational games, and stand-alone products, applying a pedagogical approach, which is based on established educational standards. Much of our content uses licensed characters, such as Sofia the First, Doc McStuffins, the Disney Princesses, Jake and the Neverland Pirates, Cars, Planes, Dora the Explorer, SpongeBob SquarePants and UmiZoomi, as well as characters from Thomas the Tank Engine, Transformers and My Little Pony. Most of our concept designs are created by our in-house content production department, many members of which have prior experience in the education, entertainment and educational content or video game industries. •Development of Online Services: Our online-connected products provide accessibility to the Learning Path and the App Center, both of which are key competitive differentiators. Our online capabilities, such as our Learning Path, App Center and online store at leapfrog.com, are developed through a combination of in-house team members and third-party resources. Many members of our development and production team have prior experience in online engineering and design. Our online services are based on a combination of internally-developed content, in-licensed content and web applications hosted by third parties. 5 Advertising and Marketing Our advertising and marketing strategy is designed to position LeapFrog as a leader in providing engaging, effective, and fun educational entertainment for children and to establish us as one of the most trusted brands that parents seek out as they look for ways to help their child reach their potential. We have recently introduced new brand messaging: Pure Learning Fun, extolling the benefits of our educational entertainment experiences as being created for learning, designed for fun and personalized for every child. We take an integrated approach to reach both parents and children using a mix of advertising vehicles, including television, paid search, rich online media, social media outlets such as Facebook and Twitter, and direct-to-consumer programs. We have well-established retailer relationships and also communicate our messages and offerings through in-store advertisements and point-of-purchase displays and signage. Advertisements run by our retail partners, such as Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us, and Target, highlight promotional activities and the availability of particular LeapFrog products at these retailers’ locations. We leverage public relations globally as a strategy to gain additional recognition and momentum for our brand and products through media outreach focused on garnering both product-specific and corporate media coverage. Over the last three years we have established strong relationships with online industry experts and websites as well as the most influential bloggers in the mom, parent and toy spaces. Distribution Our customers generally fit into one of the following categories: •Retailers that resell our products to consumers, through their retail stores and their own online channels, in the U.S. and some international regions; •Distributors that purchase our products for resale to retailers, generally internationally, and also to U.S. schools and school districts as education market resellers; and •Direct consumers who purchase our products via our website, leapfrog.com, and our App Center. Retailers and distributors purchase our products in advance, for pickup from our manufacturers in Asia, or through orders placed to our U.S. or international warehouses where we maintain inventories to meet expected short-term demand. Products are generally shipped through free-on-board terms, and their titles pass to customer when they are loaded on board at the port of shipment. Customers pay through pre-established letters of credit or upon payment terms, which are usually based on the date of shipment. Generally, we do not provide rights of return or extended payment terms to our customers, except for industry standard terms surrounding the return of defective merchandise. Intellectual Property and Licenses We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the U.S. and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our brand, characters, and proprietary technology and information. We maintain an active program to protect our investment in technology and brands by attempting to secure patent rights, trademark registrations and other intellectual property registrations. We have filed and obtained a number of patents in the U.S. and abroad. We believe that the duration of the applicable patents we are granted is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. While our patents are an important element of the protection of our intellectual property, our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any one patent. For a discussion of how our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to prevent other companies from using similar or identical technology, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to include intellectual property owned by others in our games, our operating results could suffer.” For a discussion of how our intellectual property rights may not insulate us from claims of infringement by third parties, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“We may not succeed in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights.” 6 In addition to proprietary materials we have developed, we use various licensed technologies in some of our key products, such as LeapPad, Leapster and LeapReader. Our continued use of these rights is dependent on our continued compliance with applicable license terms. Any failure to do so could interrupt our supply chain and require us to modify our products or business plans. Please see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to include intellectual property owned by others in our games, our operating results could suffer” for further discussion of the risks we face in relying on third-party technology licenses for our products. Seasonality Our business is highly seasonal with a significant portion of our revenue occurring in the second half of the year. Given relatively low sales volumes in the first half of the year and the fixed nature of many of our operating expenses, which occur fairly evenly throughout the year, our results of operations have historically been stronger in our third and fourth quarters relative to our first and second quarters. Conversely, our cash flow from operations tends to be highest in the first quarter of the year when we collect a majority of our accounts receivable related to sales made in the fourth quarter of the prior year. Cash flow from operations is generally lowest in our third quarter, as accounts receivable collections taper off and we build our inventory levels in preparation for the fourth quarter holiday season. The reduction in cash flow in the third quarter generally means that our available cash is at its lowest point for the year in the first month of the fourth quarter. Our seasonal net sales patterns for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 are shown in the table below. Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Percent of total net sales: 1st quarter 15% 13% 9% 2nd quarter 15% 12% 12% 3rd quarter 36% 33% 33% 4th quarter 34% 42% 46% Total 100% 100% 100% Seasonal purchasing patterns and their related production lead times create risk in our business due to possible under-production of popular items and over-production of items that do not match consumer demand. In addition, our retail customers continue to manage their inventories stringently, requiring us to ship products close to the time of expected consumer demand. For more information about the effects of seasonality on our business see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“Our business is highly seasonal, and our annual operating results depend, in large part, on sales relating to the brief holiday season.” Financial Information about Geographic Areas Financial information regarding export sales and international operations versus U.S. sales and operations is included in Note 20—“Segment Reporting” in our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding risks associated with our foreign operations upon which our international segment depends, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—“We face risks associated with international operations.” Employees As of December 31, 2013, we employed 579 people on a full-time basis as compared to 552 as of December 31, 2012. The increase in full-time employees was driven by hiring in engineering, online services, and marketing. We also retain independent contractors to provide various services. Except with respect to some of our foreign subsidiaries, we are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements. Some of our foreign subsidiaries are subject to collective bargaining agreements whose benefits and terms are codified and required under local labor laws. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. 7 Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth information with respect to our executive officers as of February 28, 2014: Name Age Position Held John Barbour 54 Chief Executive Officer Raymond L. Arthur 55 Chief Financial Officer Gregory B. Ahearn 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Christopher Spalding 52 Senior Vice President and Managing Director, EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia) Kenneth A. Adams 58 Senior Vice President of Sales John Barbour has served as our Chief Executive Officer and as a board member since March 2011. Prior to joining LeapFrog, he served as President of the GameHouse Division of RealNetworks, Inc. from October 2008 to August 2010. From October 2006 to October 2008, Mr. Barbour served as the Managing Partner of Volta Capital, LLC, a strategy and investment consulting firm. From 1999 to June 2006, Mr. Barbour was employed by Toys “R” Us, Inc., a leading retailer of children’s toys and products. He served as President of Toys “R” Us U.S. from August 2004 to June 2006. Prior to that, he served as President of Toys “R” Us International and Chairman of Toys “R” Us Japan from February 2002 to August 2004. From 1999 to 2002, Mr. Barbour served as President and Chief Executive Officer of toysrus.com, a subsidiary of Toys “R” Us, Inc. Mr. Barbour has also held senior-level positions with Hasbro, Inc., OddzOn Products, Inc., and Universal Matchbox Group, Ltd. Mr. Barbour holds a B.Sc. in Chemistry, with Honors, from the University of Glasgow. Raymond L. Arthur has served as our Chief Financial Officer since July 2012. Prior to joining LeapFrog, Mr. Arthur served as Chief Financial Officer at The Pep Boys – Manny, Moe, & Jack from 2008 to 2012, where he built the company’s finance organization. Prior to that, Mr. Arthur served in various capacities for Toys “R” Us, Inc., including as Chief Financial Officer of Toys “R” Us, Inc., from 2004 to 2006, where he oversaw a strategic review and restructuring of company-wide operations, as President and Chief Financial Officer of toysrus.com from 2000 to 2003 and as Corporate Controller of Toys “R” Us from 1999 to 2000. Previously, he worked in a variety of roles for General Signal Corporation, American Home Products Corporation, American Cyanamid Company and in public accounting. Mr. Arthur received his B.A. in Accounting from William Paterson College. Gregory B. Ahearn has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since June 2012. Prior to joining LeapFrog, Mr. Ahearn was Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Toys “R” Us, Inc. where he was responsible for all aspects of marketing, advertising, and promotions, including strategy, media analysis, brand position, and creative services for the Toys “R” Us, Babies “R” Us, and FAO Schwartz brands in the U.S. Prior to that, Mr. Ahearn also served in several other senior leadership roles for Toys “R” Us, Inc. during his tenure there from 2000 to June 2012. Prior to joining Toys “R” Us, Mr. Ahearn was Vice President of Marketing for Hasbro, Inc.’s OddzOn toy division from 1997 to 2000 where he oversaw the development and marketing for brands such as Koosh collectibles, sport and bubbles, Vortex high-performance toy sports and Rubik’s puzzles and games. From 1995 to 1997, Mr. Ahearn held senior marketing positions at OddzOn Products, Inc. prior to its acquisition by Hasbro. Mr. Ahearn also previously held several brand management positions at Mattel, Inc. Mr. Ahearn received his bachelor’s degree from Georgetown University and his Masters of Business Administration from the University of Southern California. Christopher Spalding has served as our Senior Vice President & Managing Director EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia) since January 2011. Previously, he served as Managing Director EMEA from October 2009 and was given further territory responsibility for Asia in December 2009. Prior to joining LeapFrog, Mr. Spalding was COO of Metro International Media SA from May 2006 to December 2007. Prior to this, he worked for Associated Newspapers (now part of A&N Media Limited) as Circulation Sales Director from September 2001 to May 2006, Emap plc (now part of Eden Bidco Ltd) from November 1998 to September 2001, as well as a number of other fast-moving consumer goods companies including The Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo, Inc. and Virgin Group Limited. On February 10, 2014, Mr. Spalding notified us of his resignation. He will remain with LeapFrog for a transition period ending no later than August 10, 2014. Kenneth A. Adams has served as our Senior Vice President of Sales since June 2013. Prior to joining LeapFrog, Mr. Adams served as Vice President of Sales for emerging channels and business development at Hasbro, Inc. Mr. Adams’ previous roles with Hasbro, Inc. included Vice President, Team Lead for Target and Vice President, Team Lead for Toys “R” US. During his 28-year tenure with Hasbro, Mr. Adams led many strategic initiatives and large sales teams in the U.S., and was responsible for all facets of sales management, from leading major retail partner relationships to developing new channels of distribution and managing national distributor networks. 8 Available Information We file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Such reports and other information filed with the SEC are available free of charge on the investor relations section of our website located at www.leapfroginvestor.com under “Financial Information – SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room of the SEC by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those described below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be considered carefully before you decide whether to buy, hold or sell our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial conditions, results of operations and stock price. Our business depends on our ability to correctly predict highly changeable consumer preferences and product trends. The preferences and interests of children and families evolve quickly, can change drastically from year to year and are difficult to predict. Even our successful products typically have a relatively short period of high demand followed by a decrease in demand as the product matures. For example, net sales of the Leapster2 platform peaked in 2010 and are no longer material to our overall sales. We depend on our ability to correctly identify changing consumer sentiments well in advance and supply new products that respond to such changes on a timely basis. We also rely on our ability to identify third-party entertainment media that is likely to be popular with consumers and license rights to such media to incorporate into our products. In addition, we need to be able to accurately forecast sales of these products in order to optimize our production schedules and manage our inventory. Since our products typically have a long development cycle, in some cases lasting over a year, it can be difficult to correctly predict changing consumer preferences and accurately forecast optimal production and sales targets for these products. If we are unable to correctly predict consumer preferences, successfully integrate popular third-party media with our own or accurately forecast sales targets for our products, it could negatively impact our current and future operating results. To remain competitive and stimulate consumer demand, we must continue to develop new products and services and successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industries in which we compete, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. In 2012 and 2013, we introduced a number of new products to the market that represented a substantial portion of our 2013 sales. We cannot be sure that any new products or services will be widely accepted and purchased by consumers or that we will be able to successfully manage product introductions and transitions. Failure by consumers to accept our new products and services or to pay a higher price for some of our key products, or our failure to manage product introductions and transitions, could adversely affect our operating results. 9 If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our sales and market share could decline. We currently compete in the learning toy and electronic learning-aids categories of the U.S. and international toy market, with makers of children’s tablets and, to a lesser extent, with general purpose eBook readers, mobile devices and mobile game platforms. Each of these markets is very competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. The increasing choices for children’s educational entertainment can make it difficult for us to differentiate our products from our competition, causing consumers to select a competitor’s products. We face the challenge of competitors introducing similar products or functionality soon after we introduce our new products or product lines, and these competitors may be able to offer their products at lower prices using cheaper manufacturing processes or materials, more limited functionality, or reduced safety features. In addition, we focus heavily on the educational aspect of our content, ensuring that each piece of content is based on age-appropriate educational curricula. In contrast, many of the competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and low cost content. Furthermore, with the availability of inexpensive children’s content available on different digital platforms, the distinction between children’s tablets, like the LeapPad products, and a general purpose tablet with child-focused content could become eroded. For example, in 2012 and 2013 our LeapPad products faced competition from several tablets designed for children and from general-purpose tablets made by major electronics manufacturers. This means that we compete, to some extent, with much larger makers of tablets such as Apple and Amazon, as well as more traditional learning toy companies such as Mattel and Hasbro. These companies are significantly larger and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. If the Company is unable to compete effectively or successfully differentiate its products from the competition, business and operating results could be adversely affected. If global economic conditions deteriorate, our business and financial results could be affected. We develop and distribute educational entertainment for children. Our performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending. Consumers’ discretionary purchases of educational entertainment items for children may be impacted by unemployment, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit, interest rates, stagnant or declining wages, and other macroeconomic factors that affect consumer spending behavior. Uncertainty with respect to future government spending and related national debt levels in the United States and the European Union pose a significant threat to the global economy as a whole. If these or other matters led to a deterioration of global economic conditions, it could potentially have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We rely on a small group of retailers that together accounted for the majority of our annual gross sales such that economic or other difficulties that affect these retailers or changes in their purchasing or related decisions could have a significant impact on our business and operating results. Our top three retailers in 2013 were Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us and Target, which accounted for approximately 63% of the U.S. segment’s gross sales in 2013 and 66% in 2012. In addition, Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us and Target accounted for approximately 26% of the international segment’s gross sales in 2013 and 27% in 2012. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on a small number of large retailers for the majority of our sales domestically and abroad. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our retailers and retailers make all purchases by delivering one-time purchase orders. As a result, pricing, shelf space, cooperative advertising or special promotions, among other things, with each retailer are subject to periodic negotiation and alteration. We rely on our retail customers to successfully sell our products to consumers. Economic and other factors that adversely affect retailers, such as increased competition from online retailers, store closures, consolidation in the retail sector, bankruptcies and liquidity problems may adversely affect us. For example, the bankruptcy of one of our customers in 2012 resulted in bad debt expense of approximately $3.1 million. If any of these retailers reduce their purchases from us, materially change the terms on which we conduct business with them or experience a downturn in their business for any reason, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 10 If our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with our customers, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our products are marketed through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs. Our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part upon the success of these programs. Additionally, given the importance of sales during the year-end holiday season, our marketing efforts tend to be concentrated in the fourth quarter. With this concentration, it can be more difficult to accurately assess the effectiveness of the advertising and make any necessary adjustments before the end of the year. If the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with consumers, particularly during the critical holiday season or during other key selling periods, or if we are unable to accurately assess the effectiveness of our advertising and make necessary adjustments, our business and operating results could be materially affected. Our business is highly seasonal, and our annual operating results depend, in large part, on sales relating to the brief holiday season. Sales of consumer electronics and toy products in the retail channel are highly seasonal, causing a substantial majority of our sales to retailers to occur during the third and fourth quarters. Even though we achieved net income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, we incurred losses in the first and second quarters of 2013. Approximately 70%, 75% and 79% of our total net sales occurred during the second half of fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. A decline of net sales, in the third or fourth quarter in particular, will have a disproportionate negative impact on our results for the year and can lead to ongoing weakness in sales to retailers well into the following year. Therefore, we may be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events such as economic crises, strikes, earthquakes, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season. System failures in our online services or web store could harm our business. The online aspects of our business have grown substantially in strategic importance to our overall business. Any failure to provide a positive user experience in these services could have a negative impact on our reputation, sales and consumer relationships. In addition, we rely on third parties for certain critical aspects of the online user experience, such as payment processing and secure handling of credit card and other confidential information. If consumer demand for accessing our App Center or our website exceeds the capacity we have planned to handle during peak periods or if other technical issues arise, then we could lose sales and customers could be inconvenienced or become dissatisfied with our products. Any significant disruption to or cyber-attack on our App Center, website, internal computer systems, or those of our third-party service providers, or malfunctions related to transaction processing on our online store or content management systems, could result in a loss of potential or existing customers and sales. Although our systems have been designed to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events. Many of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. The occurrence of an earthquake, or other natural disaster or unanticipated problem at our hosting facilities, including those located in California, could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. Any unplanned disruption of our systems could result in adverse financial impact to our operations. Significant increases in the cost of our components and raw materials or an inability to obtain these in sufficient quantities from our suppliers or alternative sources could negatively impact our financial results. Because some of the components used to make our products currently come from a single or a limited number of suppliers, we are subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many components that are available from multiple sources are at times subject to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. If our suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components or raw materials and we are unable to obtain an alternative source or if the price available from our current suppliers or an alternative source is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed and our operating results would suffer. 11 In addition, as we do not have long-term agreements with our major suppliers and cannot guarantee their stability, they may stop manufacturing our components at any time with little or no notice. If we are required to use alternative sources, we may be required to redesign some aspects of the affected products, which may involve delays and additional expense. For example, the 2011 tsunami in Japan required us to replace a chip in the LeapPad. Although the introduction of the new chip did not ultimately increase our cost for the product or materially affect its performance, it introduced additional complexity into our supply chain and manufacturing processes, strained our internal resources, and introduced risk to our launch date. If there are any significant interruptions in the supply of components or if prices rise significantly, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our finished products or we may be unable to manufacture them at targeted cost levels, and our business and operating results could be harmed. Our reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers to produce the majority of our products presents risks to our business. We outsource substantially all of our manufacturing to a limited number of Asian manufacturers, most of which manufacture our products at facilities in the Guangdong province in the southeastern region of China. We depend on these manufacturers to produce sufficient volumes of our finished products in a timely fashion, at satisfactory cost and quality levels, and in accordance with our and our customers’ terms of engagement. If we determine that we need to order larger quantities of our products to meet customer demand, we may encounter delays and shortfalls in shipments based on manufacturer capacity issues. Economic and other factors that adversely affect these manufacturers may also adversely affect us. For example, labor costs in China continue to increase due to a variety of factors, including tightening Chinese labor markets, leading to increased prices for us with some of our contract manufacturers. Furthermore, in the past, there have been product quality and safety issues for other producers of toys and other companies that manufacture goods in China. If our manufacturers fail or are unable to produce quality finished products on time, at expected cost targets and in sufficient quantities, or if any of our products are found to be tainted or otherwise raise health or safety concerns, our reputation and operating results would suffer. If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, or on a timely basis, or if inventory levels are too high, our operating results will be adversely affected. The high degree of seasonality of our business places stringent demands on our inventory forecasting and production planning processes. This inventory management approach may be particularly challenging when combined with “just-in-time” inventory management systems commonly used by retailers to minimize their inventory levels. If we fail to meet tight shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our merchandise on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. This requires us to begin to place orders for components up to a year in advance, and we produce a significant amount of product months in advance, of the holiday season. At the time these orders are being placed and product is being produced, we may not have firm orders from retailers or a complete understanding of what the consumer demand for those products will be in the holiday season. If our inventory forecasting and production planning processes result in our manufacturing inventory in excess of the levels demanded by our customers, we could be required to record inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if our processes result in our inventory levels being too low to meet customer demand, we may lose sales, which would adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to include intellectual property owned by others in our products, our operating results could suffer. Among our proprietary rights are inbound licenses from third parties for content such as characters, stories, music, illustrations and trade names, and for technologies we incorporate in our products including key technology used in our LeapReader reading systems. In particular, we rely on our ability to acquire rights to popular entertainment media properties for content on our multimedia learning platforms. Our continued use of these rights is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain these license rights and at reasonable rates. Any failure to do so could significantly impact our content sales or interrupt our supply chain and require us to modify our products or business plans. 12 We may not succeed in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Contractual arrangements and other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter independent third-party development of similar technologies. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where we do not hold patents or trademarks or where the laws may not protect our intellectual property as fully as in the U.S. Some of our products and product features have limited intellectual property protection, and, as a consequence, we may not have the legal right to prevent others from reverse engineering or otherwise copying and using these features in competitive products. In addition, monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is costly, and any dispute or other litigation, regardless of outcome, may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. However, if we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our rights could be diminished and our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. In addition, we periodically receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. If we, our distributors, our licensors or our manufacturers are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of any third party, we or they may be required to obtain a license to use those rights, which may not be obtainable on reasonable terms, if at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development and sale of some of our products or against the use of a trademark or copyright in the sale of some of our products. Our insurance does not cover all types of intellectual property claims and insurance levels for covered claims may not be adequate to indemnify us against all liability, which could harm our operating results. Any defects contained in our products, or our failure to comply with applicable safety standards, could result in recalls, delayed shipments, rejection of our products, product liability and damage to our reputation, and could expose us to litigation or regulatory action. Our products may contain defects, which could lead to product liability, personal injury or property damage claims, or could result in the rejection of our products by retailers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, and increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. Moreover, we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. Concerns about potential public harm and liability may involve involuntary recalls or lead us to voluntarily recall selected products. Recalls or post-manufacture repairs of our products could harm our reputation and our competitive position, increase our costs or reduce our net sales. In addition, recalls or post-manufacturing repairs by other companies in our industry could affect consumer behavior and cause reduced purchases of our products. Any such problems, or perceived problems, with our products could harm our operating results. We face risks associated with international operations. We derived approximately 30%, 27% and 25% of our net sales from markets outside the U.S. during fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our business is, and will increasingly be, subject to additional risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: •the appeal of our products in international markets; •difficulties managing and maintaining relationships with vendors, customers, retailers, distributors and other commercial partners; 13 •increased investment and operational complexity to make our multimedia platforms and App Center compatible with the systems in various countries and compliant with local laws; •greater difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; •transportation delays and interruptions, including cross-border delays due to customs clearance and other point-of-entry restrictions; •timely localization of products and content; •currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; and •limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings. Our efforts to increase sales for our products outside the U.S. may not be successful and may not achieve higher sales or gross margins or contribute to profitability. Expansion plans will require significant management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful. We may have to compete with established local or regional companies which understand the local market better than we do. This expansion increases the complexity of our business and places strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. Any difficulties with our international operations could harm our future sales and operating results. In addition, we may not be able to manage international growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results. We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those related to privacy, which could impose additional costs or changes on the conduct of our business. We operate in a highly regulated environment with international, federal, state and local governmental entities regulating many aspects of our business. Regulations with which we must comply include accounting standards, taxation requirements (including income tax rates, tariff and import duties, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), regulations regarding financial matters, environmental regulations, privacy regulations, regulations regarding advertising directed toward children, safety and other administrative and regulatory restrictions. Our international business requires compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws. We are also subject to regulation by the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission and other similar federal, state and international regulatory authorities, some of which have conflicting standards and requirements. In addition, numerous states have enacted, and many others are considering enacting, laws directed at manufacturers regarding recycling of electronic products. Compliance with the various laws and regulations and other requirements of regulatory authorities imposes significant costs on the conduct of our business. Changes to privacy regulations in the U.S. or Europe could have a significant impact on our business, as a growing percentage of our sales come from our web-connected multimedia learning platforms and related content. As we focus on web-connected products and direct marketing to consumers through the Internet, regulatory changes regarding the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, could negatively affect our business. Furthermore, consumer concerns regarding such matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. While we take steps that we believe are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we have achieved compliance or that we will be in compliance in the future. Failure to comply with the relevant regulations could result in monetary liabilities and other sanctions, and could lead to significant negative media attention and consumer dissatisfaction, either of which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in laws or regulations may lead to increased costs, changes in our effective tax rate, or the interruption of normal business operations that would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Political developments, changes in trade relations, the threat or occurrence of armed hostilities, terrorism, labor strikes, natural disasters or public health issues could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is international in scope. The deterioration of the political or socioeconomic situation in a country in which we have significant sales, operations or third-party manufacturers or suppliers, or the breakdown of trade relations between the U.S. and a foreign country in which we have or utilize significant manufacturing facilities or have other operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, a change in trade status for China, where the vast majority of our contract manufacturers are located, could result in a substantial increase in the import duty of toys manufactured in China and imported into the U.S. In addition, armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues, whether in the U.S. or abroad, could cause damage and disruption to our company, our suppliers, our manufacturers, or our customers or could create political or economic instability, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, our U.S. distribution center and our corporate headquarters are located in California near major earthquake faults that have experienced earthquakes in the past and that are expected to recur in the future. See also “System failures in our online services or web store could harm our business” above. Although it is impossible to predict the consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our product or create delay or inefficiencies in our supply chain by making it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products to our customers, for our manufacturers to deliver products to us, or for suppliers to provide component parts. Our success is dependent on the efforts and dedication of our officers and other employees. The loss of services of members of our executive management team or other key employees could have an adverse effect on our business. We compete with many other potential employers in recruiting, hiring and retaining our senior management team and our many other skilled officers and other employees. There is no guarantee that we will be able to recruit, hire or retain the senior management, officers and other employees we need to succeed. The loss of key management or other employees, or our inability to hire talented people we need in the future, could significantly harm our business. Our liquidity may be insufficient to meet the long-term or periodic needs of our business. In addition to cash received from the collection of accounts receivable, from time to time, we may fund our operations and strengthen our liquidity through borrowings under our line of credit. Our line of credit has numerous financial tests and covenants that affect the amount we can borrow, and includes various events of default that could impair our ability to access credit under the credit line. Any impairment of our ability to access our credit line, if combined with global credit market fluctuations, could increase our cost of capital or limit our ability to raise additional capital should we need it and materially impact our operations. We may engage in acquisitions, mergers, or dispositions, which may affect our financial results. We may engage in acquisitions, mergers or dispositions, which may affect the profit, revenues, profit margins, debt-to-capital ratio, capital expenditures, or other aspects of our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or merger partners or that, if identified, we will be able to acquire these targets on terms acceptable to us and to potential merger partners. There can also be no assurance that we will be successful in integrating any acquired company into our overall operations, or that any such acquired company will operate profitably or will not otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. Further, we cannot be certain that key talented individuals at those acquired companies will continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they will continue to develop popular and profitable products or services. A few stockholders control a significant percentage of our voting power. The majority of holders of our Class A common stock may not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote. Our Class A common stock entitles its holders to one vote per share, and our Class B common stock entitles its holders to ten votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2013, Michael Milken and Lowell Milken together owned, directly and indirectly, approximately 3.6 million shares of our Class B common stock and Sandra Milken beneficially owned 0.8 million shares of our Class B common stock. Together, these three stockholders represented approximately 40.2% of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock as of December 31, 2013. As a result, Messrs. Michael and Lowell Milken, and Ms. Milken, if voting together would have significant influence on stockholder vote outcomes, including with respect to: 15 •the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; •any determinations with respect to mergers, other business combinations, or changes in control; •our acquisition or disposition of assets; and •our financing activities. Messrs. Michael and Lowell Milken and Ms. Milken could have interests that diverge from those of our other stockholders. This significant influence by a few stockholders could depress the market price of our Class A common stock; deter, delay or prevent a change in control of LeapFrog; or affect other significant corporate transactions that otherwise might be viewed as beneficial for other stockholders. Our stock price has been volatile over the past several years and could decline in the future, resulting in losses for our investors and harming the employee-retention and recruiting value of our equity compensation. All the factors discussed in this section or any other material announcements could affect our stock price. Speculation in the media and analyst communities, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock and market trends unrelated to our stock can also cause the price of our stock to change. A significant drop in the price of our stock could expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, adversely affecting our business. Our future success depends partly on the continued contribution of our key executives and technical, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel. Part of our compensation package includes stock and/or stock options. To the extent our stock performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees, potentially resulting in lost institutional knowledge and key talent. Changes in compensation packages or costs could impact our profitability and/or our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 