Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Our product candidates are in various stages of development and may not be developed or commercialized successfully. Our product candidates are based on technologies that have not been used previously in the manner and combination we propose and must compete with more established treatments currently accepted as the standards of care. Market acceptance of our products will largely depend on our ability to demonstrate their relative safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and ease of use. We are subject to the risk that: • the FDA, Health Canada or any other foreign regulatory authority finds some or all of our product candidates ineffective or unsafe or that benefits of a product candidate do not outweigh the associated risks; • we do not receive necessary regulatory approvals in the United States, Canada, or elsewhere; • we are unable to get some or all of our product candidates to market in the United States, Canada or elsewhere in a timely manner; • we are not able to produce our product or product candidates in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; • our products undergo post-market evaluations resulting in marketing restrictions or withdrawal of regulatory approval of our products; • the patient and physician community does not accept our product or product candidates; or • we are unable to establish effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to facilitate the commercialization of our product candidates once they receive regulatory approval. In addition, our product development programs may be curtailed, redirected, eliminated or delayed at any time for many reasons, including: • adverse or ambiguous results; • undesirable side effects that delay or extend the trials; • inability to locate, recruit, qualify and retain a sufficient number of clinical investigators or patients for our trials; • regulatory delays or other regulatory actions, including changes in decisions by the FDA, Health Canada or other foreign regulatory authority, policies or procedures that make prior applicable FDA precedents less reliable as future predictors; • failure to satisfy one or more requirements or restrictions imposed by the FDA, Health Canada or other foreign regulatory authority as a basis for approving the initiation of a clinical study; • difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of the particular product candidate or any other components needed for our pre-clinical testing or clinical trials; • insufficient financial resources; • uncertainties regarding study designs and an inability to obtain clarity from regulators regarding study designs; • difficulties in obtaining the necessary regulatory support from our raw materials suppliers to enable us to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market our product or product candidates; or • re-evaluation of our clinical development strategy. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS We cannot predict whether the commercialization of Augment in Canada, Australia and New Zealand or the anticipated approval and subsequent commercialization of Augment in the United States and the EU will be successful, or whether we will successfully develop and commercialize any of our product candidates. If we fail to do so, we will not be able to generate substantial revenue, which would have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current economic uncertainty could adversely affect our operations. Our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by the economic conditions in the countries in which we operate or seek to operate. For example, the economy may impact the demand for elective medical procedures that we are targeting with our product candidates, or may impact the pricing that we may set for our products, if approved. Accordingly, the impact of the economy on commercial opportunities, such as our anticipated product launch in the United States for Augmatrix, and other anticipated future products, remains uncertain. In addition, given the current economic and regulatory environment, we are continuously assessing our expenses. Any necessary debt or equity financing may be difficult, costly, dilutive, or completely unavailable to us. From time to time, we may consider expense or other reductions. We believe our existing cash and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements at least through 2013. Failure to secure necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price, and could require us to delay or abandon product development or commercialization plans, or plans to acquire additional technology. There is a risk that one or more of our suppliers, clinical investigators, consultants and other partners may encounter financial difficulties, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. Current economic conditions may also adversely affect our potential customers, including patients, medical professionals and their practices, hospitals and other health care providers. These conditions may also impact the overall amount spent on healthcare generally. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of our new technology and increased price competition. Our current product candidates are all based on the same protein, rhPDGF-BB. If one of our product candidates, or one of another company’s products or product candidates containing rhPDGF-BB or a similar growth factor, reveals safety or fundamental efficacy issues in clinical use or in clinical trials, then the development path for, and the commercialization of, all our other current product candidates may be adversely impacted. The development of each of our product candidates is based on our understanding of how the protein rhPDGF-BB contributes to the repair of bone and soft tissue. Soft tissue includes muscles, tendons and ligaments that connect, support or surround the bones and organs of the body. While there are important differences in each of our product candidates in terms of its purpose, each product candidate focuses on accelerating the repair of musculoskeletal tissue and relies on the ability of rhPDGF-BB to stimulate the body’s natural healing processes. Since we are developing our product candidates in parallel, if one product candidate experiences negative clinical trial results or is found to be ineffective, it may impact the development path or future development of the other product candidates. If we find that one product candidate is unsafe, there may be an adverse effect on the development of our other product candidates, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If a product or product candidate developed by another company contains the same protein rhPDGF-BB, or a similar growth factor, as our product candidates, and its product or product candidate reveal safety or fundamental efficacy issues, then the development and commercialization of our product candidates may be impacted as well, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Likewise, investor perception concerning a potentially adverse impact on our product candidates may cause our stock price to decline or may result in stock price volatility. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we fail to meet our obligations under our existing license agreements or fail to enter into new license agreements, our business may be materially adversely impacted. Our rights to the development, use and marketing of our product candidates are governed by a series of development and licensing agreements. These agreements provide us with rights to certain intellectual property created by the other party, which allow us to develop and commercialize our product and product candidates. As part of these agreements, during the term of the agreements we are required to make payments and comply with other obligations as we progress through product development and commercialization. If we fail to make these payments or satisfy other obligations for any reason, these agreements could be terminated by the other party, thereby possibly limiting our ability to market our product or limiting our ability to maintain exclusivity with respect to our product or product candidates. Furthermore, if a dispute arises regarding our obligations under these agreements, our business may be materially adversely impacted. Disputes may arise regarding the scope of our rights and obligations under any of these agreements. Additionally, the other parties under these agreements might breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to prevent infringement of a licensed patent by third parties. Loss of any of these agreements for any reason could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may need additional licenses to intellectual property owned by third parties in order to commercialize new products. If we cannot obtain these additional licenses, we may not be able to develop or commercialize these future products. Our rights to use technologies licensed to us by third parties are not entirely within our control, and we may not be able to produce our product and product candidates without these technologies. We depend upon a limited number of specialty suppliers of raw materials. Our ability to manufacture our product and product candidates depends upon a limited number of specialty suppliers of raw materials. In particular, we depend upon Novartis to supply us with sufficient quantities of rhPDGF-BB for commercial production and clinical development activities and to meet the commercial demand for our product. We are obligated to purchase minimum specified quantities of rhPDGF-BB. We currently do not have an alternative source of rhPDGF-BB. With the production of Augment finished goods inventory in anticipation of product launch, we have depleted our current inventory of rhPDGF-BB. If we are not able to obtain rhPDGF-BB from Novartis, we may not be able to meet our supply obligations to Luitpold for rhPDGF-BB, or manufacture commercial or clinical inventory of any product candidate that contains rhPDGF-BB, including our lead product candidates, Augment, Augment Injectable, and Augment Rotator Cuff. Our agreement with Novartis may be terminated under certain circumstances. Under the terms of our supply agreement, Novartis is required to support our efforts to establish our continued production of rhPDGF-BB should it terminate the agreement; however, establishing a manufacturing process to replace Novartis’ may take multiple years and a significant financial investment to complete, if at all, and there is no assurance we would be successful in that effort. Based on our current forecasts for our and Luitpold’s rhPDGF-BB needs, our planned clinical study programs for our product candidates and our anticipated pre-clinical studies, sales forecasts of Augment, and finished goods currently in inventory, our minimum purchase commitments of rhPDGF-BB in 2012 should meet our needs for at least the next 24 months. We regularly review existing inventory quantities, expiration dates of existing inventory, and inventory purchase commitments with suppliers to evaluate a provision for excess, expired, obsolete and scrapped inventory based primarily on our historical usage and anticipated future usage. If appropriate, reserves for such obsolescence, shrinkage, expiration, and potential scrapping of product batches that may not be released for sale are included in inventory. Although we attempt to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, there can be no assurance that our purchase commitments would not exceed our forecasted future usage, potentially resulting in excess, expired, obsolete or scrapped inventory. In addition to any significant unanticipated change in demand or technological developments, such excess inventory could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and reported operating results. 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have established certain relationships with |gb-TCP suppliers and obtain matrix materials from Kensey Nash and Integra. We are also continuing to evaluate |gb-TCP products and other matrices from other potential suppliers for use in orthopedic and sports medicine applications. There is a risk that we will not be able to secure adequate sources of rhPDGF-BB, |gb-TCP, or other matrix materials to meet our clinical and commercial needs for our products and product candidates. The failure of a supplier to continue to provide us with these materials at a price or quality acceptable to us, or at all, would impede our ability to manufacture Augment for the Canadian and Australian markets and our product candidates. Moreover, our failure to maintain strategic reserve supplies of each significant single-sourced material used to manufacture Augment and the other product candidates that we are developing may negatively impact our development and commercialization activities. If our specialty suppliers cannot perform as agreed, we may not be able to replace them in a timely manner or on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all, and the production of our product and product candidates would be interrupted or cancelled, resulting in lost revenue and delays in or terminations of clinical trials and additional costs. We will be required to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities before we can use different suppliers or components. If we have to switch to replacement suppliers, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of Augment in Canada, Australia and New Zealand and our product candidates could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay completion of our clinical trials, regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of any approved products. We and our suppliers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to various matters, including safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, advertising and promotional materials relating to medical devices are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission in specific instances. We and our suppliers may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements, our failure or the failure of our manufacturers to comply with these requirements, or the adoption of new requirements could delay the development of our product candidates or regulatory approval of our product candidates or successful commercialization of any approved products, resulting in additional losses to us. We may be unable to establish or enter into the necessary business relationships and agreements with other companies who provide a component critical to the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We rely heavily upon arrangements with third-parties for intellectual property, raw materials, manufacturing assistance, regulatory assistance and other assistance necessary to develop and market Augment and our other product candidates in Canada, Australia and New Zealand and other parts of the world. Our strategy includes continuing to develop business relationships with other biotechnology companies to assist in the commercialization efforts for our product candidates. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate business relationships, which may be complex and time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be able to enter into any such business relationships or agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If that were to happen, we may have to curtail the development or delay the commercialization of our product candidates. We have limited manufacturing capabilities and manufacturing personnel, and if our manufacturing facilities are unable to provide an adequate supply of products, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We have leased approximately 30,000 square feet of space in new building in the same complex as our headquarters in Franklin, Tennessee. We intend to utilize the new space as a good manufacturing practices (“GMP”) manufacturing facility and expect to move certain of our manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations to the new space. This new facility will provide space to meet our current and projected needs for certain aspects of our manufacturing and product release testing for our orthopedic and sports medicine product candidates. In addition, it will provide for future expansion of office, laboratory, or manufacturing space and capabilities for other product candidates that we are developing. Once the facility is operational, we may continue to utilize third party suppliers for certain aspects of our manufacturing operation, including bulk §-TCP and rhPDGF-BB production, §-TCP cup filling, component and final kit 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS sterilization and international distribution. The building shell was completed in late 2009. We have completed the build out, qualification, and approval of our warehouse and distribution center, and we expect to begin distribution from that facility in the first half of 2012. Depending upon the timing of FDA approval of the Augment PMA, the build out for our manufacturing operations could begin in the next two years. In order to qualify the facility as a GMP manufacturing facility, the build out must be complete, the utility systems, process and testing equipment must be installed and qualified, regulatory filings must be assembled and filed, and regulatory agency inspections must be passed prior to receiving approval. We anticipate that the manufacturing facility will be approved for commercial operations within two years of our starting the manufacturing build out. There can be no assurance, however, whether the FDA will approve the manufacturing facility. Currently we are utilizing at least two contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for Augment (for our commercial product and for our clinical study kits). We are using at least four contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for our Augment Injectable clinical study kits. We are using at least three contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for our Augment Rotator Cuff clinical study kits. If there were a disruption to the new manufacturing facility or those of our contract manufacturers, we would have no other means of manufacturing our product and product candidates until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at the new facility or develop alternative manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to produce sufficient quantities of our product for meeting sales targets in Canada, Australia or New Zealand (or targets in the United States if the FDA approves Augment) or produce sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in our current and planned clinical trials, or if our manufacturing process yields substandard products, then our product development efforts could be delayed and/or our sales and commercialization efforts could be adversely impacted. We have limited resources, facilities and experience to commercially manufacture our product and product candidates. In order to produce our product and product candidates in the quantities that we anticipate will be required to meet future market demand for any one or more approved products, we will need to complete qualification of the commercial scale production process at our contract facilities and at our in-house facility. There are technical challenges to developing and qualifying commercial-scale manufacturing operations. Further, the build-out of our new facility will require the investment of substantial additional funds as well as hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. We may not successfully complete the process qualification activities in a timely manner. This could strain our existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Furthermore, if we fail to manage our growth effectively we may not be able to produce our product and product candidates in sufficient quantities to meet the future requirements of the products. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of Augment or any product candidate, our revenues, business and financial prospects will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if the in-house production process is not efficient or produces products that do not meet quality and other standards, our future gross margins may decline. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. In anticipation of the approval of Augment or our other product candidates in the United States, we expect to develop a commercial organization consisting of a sales and marketing management team, independent sales agents and company employed sales representatives and product specialists who will market the product to orthopedic surgeons and podiatric surgeons. Although we are in the process of planning for a commercial organization, we currently do not have a dedicated sales force and have limited experience in the sales, marketing and distribution of regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products or drug products. In order to commercialize our product candidates, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with a third party to perform these functions. We have begun to develop our sales capabilities by hiring internal sales management and establishing contractual relationships with third-party sales representatives. However, delays in the FDA’s approval of Augment may jeopardize those relationships. We may not be able to attract additional qualified personnel to serve in our sales and marketing organization, or retain those we have hired or with which we have contracted. If we are unable to 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. The cost of establishing and maintaining a sales and marketing organization may exceed its cost effectiveness. If we fail to develop sales and marketing capabilities, if our sales efforts are not effective or if costs of developing sales and marketing capabilities exceed their cost effectiveness, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. As a result of any arrangements we may enter into with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues could be lower than if we directly marketed and sold Augment in Canada, Australia or New Zealand, or any other product candidate that we may develop. Furthermore, as a result of marketing, sales or distribution arrangements we may enter into with other companies, any revenues received will depend on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. Some of our future distributors may have products or product candidates that compete with ours, and they may have an incentive not to devote sufficient efforts to marketing our products. If our relationships with our current or future distributors do not progress as anticipated, or if their sales and marketing strategies fail to generate sales of our products in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Although we have begun establishing contractual relationships with third-party sales representatives, those relationships are limited to the sale of Augment. We are currently attempting to expand those relationships to include Augmatrix. Most of these sales groups, however, already have relationships with other orthopedic products companies, some of which sell either 510k cleared synthetic bone substitute products or non-regulated tissue-based bone substitute products, both of which will compete with Augmatrix. Therefore, these sales groups may be unwilling or contractually unable to expand our existing contractual relationship to include Augmatrix. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities for Augmatrix, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to maintain a net cash burn that enable us to reach FDA regulatory approval of Augment without the need to raise additional capital if available. The orthopedic product industries are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are safer and more effective than any products that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products in the field of biologics. We face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions in the United States and abroad. Many of our principal competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with, or mergers with or acquisitions by, large and established companies or through the development of novel products and technologies. Our competitors may: • develop and patent processes or products earlier than us; • obtain regulatory approvals for competing products more rapidly than us; or • develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or product and product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. The industry in which we operate has undergone, and we expect it to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made. Our competitors may develop and commercialize medical devices, regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products, biologic products or pharmaceutical products that are safer or more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. For example, we are aware of a company that is developing rhPDGF-BB based products for other applications, including wound healing and orthopedics, and other companies that are developing various other technologies for treating orthopedic 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS injuries and disease, which could make our product candidates obsolete. We also compete with our competitors in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, in establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. If our product and product candidates do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, they may not, and Augment in Canada, Australia and New Zealand may not and Augmatrix in the United States may not, gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payers, patients and the medical community. Market acceptance will depend on our ability to demonstrate the benefits of our approved products in terms of safety, efficacy, convenience, ease of administration and cost effectiveness. In addition, we believe market acceptance depends on the effectiveness of our marketing strategy, the pricing of our approved products and the reimbursement policies of government and third party payers as well as our ability to successfully convince hospital administration on the value of our products. Physicians may not prescribe our approved products for a variety of reasons and patients may determine for any reason that our product is not useful to them. If any of our approved products fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. In Canada and New Zealand, market acceptance is dependent upon the acceptance of our product by individual hospital “product evaluation committees,” which act as the gatekeepers at the hospital purchasing level. These committees look at the potential impact of a new product on patient care and on the budget in the specific therapeutic category related to that product. This process can take several months. However, there can be no assurance that any product evaluation committee will approve Augment in a timely manner, if at all. If product evaluation committees refuse to approve the use of Augment at their hospital, our ability to generate revenue in such markets will be materially and adversely affected. In reimbursed markets such as Australia, market acceptance is dependent upon Augment achieving adequate reimbursement. Reimbursement is contingent on several factors including providing tangible cost/benefit analysis as compared to local standard(s) of care, and providing clinical data that establishes the effectiveness of the product relative to the local standard(s) of care. If our clinical data is deemed insufficient, or our data/arguments on cost/benefit and comparative effectiveness are not able to meet local requirements, our ability to generate revenue in such markets will be materially and adversely affected. For commercialization outside of the United States, we are in the process of assembling a network of distributors to market Augment in selected high potential markets. We may also choose to support these markets with an International Commercial Director, and if this investment makes good business sense, we may potentially add product specialists to support distributor and surgeon training and drive adoption of our products. The loss of our key management and scientific personnel may hinder our ability to execute our business plan. As a small company with 75 employees as of December 31, 2011, our success depends on the continuing contributions of our management team and scientific personnel and on maintaining relationships with the network of medical and academic centers that conduct our clinical trials. We depend on the services of our key scientific employees and the principal members of our management staff. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We face intense competition in our hiring efforts from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from universities and nonprofit research organizations, and we may have to pay higher salaries to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of one or more of these individuals, or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could substantially impair our ability to implement our business plan. We face an inherent risk of liability in the event that the use or misuse of Augment, Augmatrix or our product candidates results in personal injury or death. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products may expose us to product liability claims which could result in financial losses. Our clinical and commercial product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. In addition, we may 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources and adversely impact or eliminate the prospects for commercialization of the product candidate, or sale of the product, which is the subject of any such claim. Off-label use of our products may occur. Off-label use or misuse of any product for which we obtain approval may subject us to additional liability which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are sued in a product liability action, we could be forced to pay substantial damages and the attention of our management team may be diverted from operating our business. We currently manufacture investigational regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product candidates and an approved commercial regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product in Canada, Australia and New Zealand. These product candidates and the commercial product are implanted in patients during surgery or injected into patients at the treatment site. In addition, we are developing additional similar products for additional surgical indications, and a drug product candidate for administering to patients. As a result, we may be subject to a product liability lawsuit. In particular, the market for spine products has a history of product liability litigation. Under past agreements with our former distributor for GEM 21S and agreements with certain suppliers and distributors, we indemnify these parties from certain product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us and/or a party that we have indemnified, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future. In addition, we would have to pay any amount awarded by a court in excess of policy limits. We maintain product liability insurance in the annual aggregate amount of up to $20.0 million, although our insurance policies have various exclusions. Thus, we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no insurance coverage, in which case we may be liable for the entire amount of any award. Even in the absence of a claim, our insurance rates may rise in the future to a point where we may decide not to carry this insurance. A meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim would be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from our core business. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we and/or our executive officers or directors may be named as defendants in lawsuits or involved in regulatory inquiries, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention. Biotech companies with volatile stocks often are the subject of securities class actions and derivative lawsuits. Similarly, stock price volatility as well as the timing of disclosures relating to FDA or other regulatory developments may create interest on the part of self-regulatory organizations or the SEC. Recently, following various recent regulatory developments and a period of stock price volatility, we received regulatory inquiries to which we responded to in the ordinary course. Also, two lawsuits have been filed against us. In July 2011, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court, Middle District of Tennessee, against us, and certain of our officers on behalf of certain purchasers of our common stock. The complaint alleges that we and certain of our officers violated federal securities laws by making materially false and misleading statements regarding our business, operations, management, future business prospects and the intrinsic value of our common stock, the safety and efficacy of Augment, its prospects for FDA approval and inadequacies in Augment’s clinical trials. The plaintiffs seek unspecified monetary damages and other relief. In August 2011, a purported shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the United States District Court, Middle District of Tennessee, allegedly on behalf of and for the benefit of the Company, against all the members of the current Board of Directors of the Company, and names the Company as a nominal defendant. The shareholder derivative action makes factual allegations similar to the allegations in the class action lawsuit, and alleges breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, and waste of corporate assets. The purported derivative action seeks modification of the Company’s corporate governance policies and procedures, and also seeks monetary damages in an unspecified amount, including disgorgement of all profits, benefits and compensation obtained by the defendants, and plaintiff’s costs and 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS disbursements associated with the lawsuit, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, accountants’ and experts’ fees, costs, and expenses, and such other relief as the court deems just and proper. If we are not successful in our defense of such litigation, we could be forced to make significant payments to, or enter into other settlements with, our stockholders and their lawyers, and such payments or settlement arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Additional lawsuits with similar claims may be filed by other parties against us and our officers and directors. Even if such claims are not successful, this litigation or other future similar actions, or other regulatory inquiries or investigations, may result in substantial costs, have a significant adverse impact on our reputation, and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we cannot protect our intellectual property, our ability to market our products in various markets around the world and our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates may be severely limited. Our success will depend in part on our ability to maintain and enforce patent protection for the therapeutic uses of rhPDGF-BB. Without patent protection, other companies could offer substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizable discovery, development and licensing costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of approved products would then be diminished if we are unable to successfully assert our patent rights against an infringer. We rely on our intellectual property to provide freedom to operate and to exclude others from developing rhPDGF for the treatment of general bone defects and bone defects associated with advanced periodontal disease, fractures and other indications. We currently own a number of unexpired U.S. patents covering certain unique aspects of our product and product candidates. Other patents that covered our product and product candidates have expired. We do not believe, however, that such patent expirations have significantly affected our intellectual property position. If any patent or other right which we own is challenged, a court may determine that the patent or right is invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity or enforceability of a patent is upheld by a court, the court may not prevent alleged infringement on the grounds that the activity is not covered by the patent claims. Any litigation to enforce our rights under our patents or to defend against allegations that we infringe third-party rights, would be costly and time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. We may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. In addition, our patent applications and patents may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions typically are not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases ever, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, there can be no assurance that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. Some of our competitors and others manufacture and sell products containing some of the components of GEM 21S and Augment, namely rhPDGF-BB and §-TCP, and may develop products similar to ours that are not covered by our patents. For instance, we are aware that a third party has developed a product that, like GEM 21S, is intended for use in periodontal bone regeneration and is based on rhPDGF-BB and |gb-TCP. We believe that, if commercialized, this product may infringe on our patents related to GEM 21S and/or our other products and product candidates. We are currently considering our options to protect our proprietary rights. Although we believe that our patents and patent applications provide a competitive advantage, the patent positions of biopharmaceutical and device companies are highly complex and uncertain. The combination product and medical device industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. Furthermore, as the number of entrants into our 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS market increases, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us grows. Although we have not received notice of any claims, and are not aware that our product candidates infringe other parties’ patents and proprietary rights, our product candidates and methods may be covered by U.S. patents held by our competitors. Any claim relating to infringement of patents that is asserted against us may be costly and time-consuming to defend, would divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and may require us to pay substantial damages. If a successful infringement claim is asserted against us, we may be unable to commercialize some of our product candidates unless we are able to obtain a license, or may have to cease some of our business operations, which could severely harm our business. Consequently, our success will depend in part on our not infringing patents issued to others, including our competitors and potential competitors, as well as our ability to enforce our patent rights. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation, in-licensing opportunities and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach. In addition, these agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information or prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to the information, which may not be resolved in our favor. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements, or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. In the future, we may collaborate with other entities on research, development and commercialization activities. Disputes may arise about inventorship and corresponding rights in know-how and inventions resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by us and our collaborators, licensors and consultants. In addition, other parties may circumvent any proprietary protection that we do have. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our proprietary position. Our success also depends on our ability to operate and commercialize our product and product candidates without infringing the patents or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that we or our suppliers are infringing their patents or are misappropriating their proprietary information. If there is a successful claim against us or our suppliers for infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may be required to, among other things: • pay substantial damages; • stop using our technologies; • stop certain research and development efforts; • develop non-infringing products or methods; or • obtain one or more licenses from third parties. A license required under any such patents or proprietary rights may not be available to us, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we or our suppliers are sued for infringement, we could encounter substantial delays in, or be prohibited from, developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates or prohibited from continuing the commercialization of Augment in Canada, Australia or New Zealand, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent our employees are involved in research areas that are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that these employees may have used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims, 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS which could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, even if we are successful in defending these claims. Delays encountered during the approval process by the FDA or other foreign regulatory body could shorten the patent protection period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize technologies or could allow others to come to market with similar technologies before us. Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive governmental regulation including the requirement of approval or clearance by the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities before our product candidates may be marketed. Both before and after approval or clearance of our product candidates, we, our product candidates, our suppliers, our contract manufacturers and our contract testing laboratories are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: • warning letters; • fines and other monetary penalties; • unanticipated expenditures; • delays in the FDA’s, Health Canada’s or other foreign regulatory authorities’ approving or clearing, or the refusal of any regulatory authority to approve or clear, any product candidate; • product recall or seizure; • interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials; • operating restrictions; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecutions. Our product candidates require FDA authorization by means of an approval or clearance prior to marketing in the United States. Some of our product candidates, including Augment and Augment Injectable, are regulated as combination products. For a combination product, the FDA must determine which center or centers within the FDA will review the product candidate and under what legal authority the product candidate will be reviewed. The review of combination products is often more complex and more time consuming than the review of a product candidate under the jurisdiction of only one center within the FDA. For the current orthopedic indications, Augment and Augment Injectable are being reviewed by medical device authorities at the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, with participation by the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. Augment and Augment Injectable require an approved PMA application before they can be marketed in the United States. We previously submitted a three-part modular PMA seeking approval of Augment which, after we complied with a request from the FDA for additional information, was accepted by the FDA for review and filed. The FDA’s Medical Devices Advisory Committee conducted a meeting of its Orthopaedic and Rehabilitation Devices Panel (the “panel”) on May 12, 2011 during which the panel reviewed Augment. The panel voted narrowly in support of the safety of Augment for use as an alternative to autograft in hindfoot and ankle fusion procedures; narrowly in support of the efficacy of Augment for use as an alternative to autograft in hindfoot and ankle fusion procedures; and narrowly in support of the finding that Augment demonstrates a reasonable benefit to risk profile for the same indication. In January 2012, we announced the receipt of a comprehensive post-panel response letter (the “letter”) from the FDA related to our PMA application for Augment. The FDA acknowledged that the panel voted in favor of a reasonable assurance of safety, effectiveness and a positive benefit to risk ratio; however, the FDA stated that “notwithstanding the Advisory Panel’s recommendation, the PMA, without additional information, must be considered not approvable and that...to place the Company’s PMA in approvable form, the Company 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS must amend it to include the following...” The letter listed the information that we would need to submit for the PMA application to be approvable, and outlined a pathway that could potentially lead to approval without additional clinical trials to support the safety and effectiveness of Augment. Based on our assessment of the letter, the FDA’s key requests for additional information regarding the pivotal study include a re-reading of all 24-week CT scans, further analysis of all study adverse events, re-categorization of secondary surgeries as failures, and stratification of results by various subgroups. There can be no assurance as to the extent to which the re-reads of the 24-week CT scans will correlate with the original readings of those scans, and there is a risk that there could be little or no correlation. There is also a risk that an analysis of the Augment pivotal study data after re-categorization of secondary surgeries as failures may result in Augment not achieving statistical equivalence to autograft. If there is not an adequate correlation among the two re-reads and the original read, or if Augment does not achieve statistical equivalence to autograft upon re-categorization of secondary surgeries, the FDA may require a new clinical study before approving our Augment PMA. There is also a risk that if the FDA approves our Augment PMA, the FDA could significantly limit the scope of the approved indications based on its assessment of the requested subgroup analysis of the data. Any of these events would have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even though the panel voted narrowly in favor of Augment and the FDA has followed up with a comprehensive post-panel response letter, the FDA has determined that our Augment PMA is not approvable until additional information is provided, which could include data from additional clinical or non-clinical studies. We may be unable to design studies that satisfactorily address certain issues raised by the FDA. Even if we are able to design adequate studies, such studies may be very time consuming and costly, and their results may be uncertain or negative. This could significantly delay or prevent the approval of Augment, or result in the FDA imposing labeling restrictions on any approval of Augment that would significantly reduce Augment’s potential market. Any of these events would have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We previously filed an IDE application with the FDA seeking approval to initiate a pivotal trial evaluating the safety and effectiveness of Augment Injectable as a substitute for autograft in hindfoot fusion procedures (“Augment Injectable IDE”). In January 2011, the FDA conditionally approved the initiation of enrollment in our North American pivotal trial, and we initiated patient enrollment in the United States in the second quarter of 2011. The study was initially approved by the FDA to enroll 201 patients at 25 clinical centers with the intent to pool patients from previous clinical trials. We continue to have discussions with the FDA in an effort to finalize the study design and sample size, and given certain comments made during the May 2011 panel meeting for Augment, we proposed to increase the sample size to 300 patients in order to minimize potential future concerns by the FDA regarding the statistical analysis of the study results. To date, the trial has been initiated at over 20 hospitals and 105 patients have been enrolled. After receipt of the Augment post-panel response letter, and based on our desire to focus our attention on addressing the FDA’s issues related to the Augment PMA and to conserve resources until there is further clarity from the FDA regarding Augment, we re-engaged discussions with the FDA regarding the current Augment Injectable study design and have voluntarily suspended additional screening and enrollment of patients in the study. Once we have more clarity on a study design that we believe will be acceptable to the FDA, we may decide to restart enrollment at that time. There is a risk, however, that the delay may cause investigators and/or clinical sites to drop out of the study, which would further delay completion of enrollment. An extended hold on enrollment may also negatively impact the data collection or require us to retrain the investigators and the sites before restarting enrollment. This could significantly increase the cost of completing the study. We may not be able to address the conditions the FDA has placed on the Augment Injectable IDE approval, or we may be required to further revise this trial. If we are unable to address the FDA’s conditions, or if we fail to include a large enough sample size in the study, we may be unable to complete the trial in a timely manner or the FDA may not accept the study as sufficient support for marketing approval. The FDA may reject our proposed sample size and statistical plan, and require a significantly larger number of patients in the study, which would significantly increase the cost of the study and significantly further delay completion of the study. Also, if we are unable to expand the inclusion criteria for the study (e.g., inclusion of ankle surgeries), any FDA approved indications may be more limited, which would limit the potential market for the product and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS operations. If we are unable to successfully finalize the study design for our Augment Injectable trial, or if the completion of the trial is delayed, or if the FDA ultimately determines that the results of the study do not provide sufficient support for marketing approval, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA may select a different center or different legal authority for our other product candidates, in which case the path to regulatory approval would be different and could be more lengthy and costly. For example, certain of our other product candidates may be reviewed by the FDA as drug products, which would require an approved NDA before they can be marketed. In response to a request for designation (“RFD”) we filed with the FDA for a product candidate designed to treat rotator cuff injuries, the FDA concluded that the rotator cuff product candidate should be reviewed as a drug, and not as a device. The process of obtaining FDA approval of a PMA or NDA is lengthy, expensive, and uncertain, and there can be no assurance that our regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product candidates regulated by the FDA as medical devices, or any other product candidates, will be approved in a timely fashion, or at all. If the FDA does not approve or clear our product candidates timely, or at all, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition to the approval and clearance requirements, other numerous and pervasive regulatory requirements apply, both before and after approval or clearance, to us, our product and product candidates, and our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and contract laboratories. These include requirements related to: • testing; • manufacturing; • quality control; • labeling; • advertising; • promotion; • distribution; • export; • reporting to the FDA certain adverse experiences associated with use of the product; and • obtaining additional approvals or clearances for certain modifications to the products or their labeling or claims. We also are subject to inspection by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements, as are our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and contract testing laboratories, and there can be no assurance that the FDA will not identify compliance issues that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. As part of our Augment PMA review and approval process, we anticipate that the FDA will conduct a pre-market inspection of our headquarters and of our suppliers and subcontractors prior to approval of our PMA. If the FDA identifies compliance issues during these inspections, then approval of our PMA could be significantly delayed or even denied. We may be required to make modifications to our manufacturing operations in response to these inspections which may require significant resources and may have material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA’s requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our product candidates, and our suppliers, contract manufacturers and contract laboratories. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future and such laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS The FDA or its Advisory Committee may determine that the results of our clinical trials are insufficient for regulatory approval for our product candidates. We will only receive regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or the applicable foreign regulatory agency, in well designed and conducted clinical trials, that the product candidate is safe and effective. If we are unable to demonstrate that a product candidate will be safe and effective in advanced clinical trials involving larger numbers of patients, we will be unable to submit the PMA, NDA or other application necessary to receive regulatory approval to commercialize the product candidate. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. We face risks that: • the product candidate may not prove to be safe or effective; • the product candidate’s benefits may not outweigh its risks; • the results from more advanced clinical trials may not confirm the positive results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may interpret data from pre-clinical and clinical testing in different ways than we interpret them; and • the FDA or other regulatory agencies may require additional or expanded trials. We discuss with and obtain guidance from regulatory authorities on certain of our clinical development activities. These discussions are not binding obligations on the part of regulatory authorities. Under certain circumstances, regulatory authorities may revise or retract previous guidance during the course of our clinical activities or after the completion of our clinical trials. The FDA may also disqualify a clinical trial in whole or in part from consideration in support of approval of a potential product for commercial sale or otherwise deny approval of that product. Even if we obtain successful clinical safety and efficacy data, we may be required to conduct additional, expensive trials to obtain regulatory approval. Prior to regulatory approval, the FDA may elect to obtain advice from outside experts regarding scientific issues or marketing applications under FDA review. These outside experts are convened by an FDA Advisory Committee to form an advisory panel. The advisory panel will report to the FDA and may make recommendations or make certain determinations regarding the reasonable assurance of a product’s safety and effectiveness or the benefit/risk profile of a product. The views of the advisory panel may differ from those of the FDA. Augment was reviewed by the FDA’s Orthopedic and Rehabilitation Devices Panel (the “panel”) on May 12, 2011. Even though the panel voted in favor of Augment, the FDA concluded that Augment is not approvable and that we will need to submit additional information for the application to be approvable. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. International sales of our product and any of our product candidates that we commercialize are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country in which the products are sold. Accordingly, the introduction of our product candidates in markets outside the United States will be subject to regulatory approvals in those jurisdictions. The regulatory review process varies from country to country and differs from the U.S. requirements. Many countries also impose product standards, packaging and labeling requirements and import restrictions on medical devices and drugs. We may also be required to perform additional pre-clinical or clinical studies even if the FDA approval has been obtained. In addition, each country has its own tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. The approval by foreign government authorities is unpredictable and uncertain and can be expensive. Our ability to market our approved products could be substantially limited due to delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, the necessary approvals or clearances, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In Canada, the manufacture, distribution and use of medical devices, drugs and equipment is regulated by a variety of industry-specific statutes and regulations. Medical products sold in Canada are regulated by the Canadian Food and Drugs Act. Even though a drug or device may be approved for use in another jurisdiction, it may not be sold in Canada until approved by the national regulatory agency, Health Canada. Although in May 2006 we received marketing approval from Health Canada to market GEM 21S in Canada, and in 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS November 2009 we announced that we received approval from Health Canada to market Augment in Canada, we will need to present data from additional clinical trials to obtain approval for our other product candidates. In 2009, we filed an Investigational Testing Authorization (“Augment Injectable ITA”) application with Health Canada seeking approval to initiate a pivotal study to assess the safety and efficacy of Augment Injectable as a substitute for autograft in foot and ankle fusion procedures. In October 2009, Health Canada approved the Augment Injectable ITA and we have now completed the study. We intend to file a DLA for approval of Augment Injectable in Canada and release top-line data from the study around the middle of 2012. Although the Augment Injectable study is now complete, we may need to present additional data from other clinical trials or pool the data from the Canadian trial with data from other trials in order to obtain approval for Augment Injectable in Canada. We may not be able to pool this data with data from other trials. We ultimately may not obtain the approvals necessary to market Augment Injectable or our other product candidates in development in Canada, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The primary regulatory environment in Europe is that of the EU, which consists of 27 member states and 42 competent authorities encompassing most of the major countries in Europe. The European Medicines Agency (“EMA”) previously determined that GEM 21S would be reviewed as a medicinal (i.e., a drug) product, and not as a medical device product, which is how the product was reviewed in the United States and Canada. In the first quarter of 2011, however, our EU Notified Body, Polish Centre for Testing and Certification, confirmed their acceptance of the classification of GEM 21S and Augment as Class III medical devices under the European Medical Device Directives. The product classification determination was based in part on recent changes to the European Medical Device Directives that were made after EMA’s previous determination. We submitted applications for CE Marking for GEM 21S in second quarter of 2011 and Augment in the third quarter of 2011 to the Polish Centre for Testing and Certification. In January 2012, we announced receipt of the CE Mark for GEM 21S in the EU. At the request of Luitpold, the EU regulatory authorities are re-evaluating the CE Mark. Given this re-evaluation, the EU regulatory authorities have suspended the GEM 21S CE Mark until the re-evaluation process is finalized. A CE Mark is the approval by a Notified Body, and the presence of a CE Mark is required before a medical device can be marketed in any country in the EU. Although a CE Mark provides EU market access, reimbursement is decided by each individual country and some countries or providers may not provide reimbursement for Augment, which could significantly impact the product’s market acceptance. The EU regulatory authorities may determine to rescind the CE Mark for GEM 21S and classify that product as a medicinal combination product. The EU regulatory authorities also may determine that Augment should be classified as a medicinal combination product, rather than a Class III medical device. The evaluation of the appropriate classification will delay the review process, and classification as medical combination products would result in further delay. If the EU regulatory authorities determine to review GEM 21S as a medicinal combination product, our right to continue to seek EU approval of GEM 21S could be terminated, and we expect that Luitpold will take the position that it is not obligated to make the $10.0 million milestone payment. We are considering our options in the event Luitpold does not make the payment. We may not collect the $10.0 million milestone payment from Luitpold. Even though a drug or device may be approved for use in another jurisdiction, it may not be sold in Australia and New Zealand until approved by the applicable national regulatory agency. The manufacture, distribution and use of medical devices, drugs and equipment is regulated by the Therapeutic Goods Administration (“TGA”) in Australia and the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority (“Medsafe”) in New Zealand. In February 2010, we filed an application of Conformity Assessment with the Australian TGA for Augment. This application seeks approval to market Augment in Australia as an alternative to autograft in the treatment of foot and ankle fusions. The filing utilized the technical and clinical data that were provided to Health Canada in the recent DLA and to the FDA in the recent filing of the PMA for Augment in the United States. In October 2011, the TGA approved our medical device application for Augment, which was subsequently listed on the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods (“ARTG”), clearing the way for commercialization of the product in Australia. In December 2011, Medsafe listed Augment on the Web Assisted Notification of Devices (“WAND”), clearing the way for commercialization of the product in New Zealand. Although listed, there can be no assurance that any hospital’s product evaluation committee will approve the use of Augment in a timely manner, if at all. If product evaluation committees refuse to approve the use of Augment at their hospital, we may be unable to meet projected Augment sales targets for Australia 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS or New Zealand, and our ability to generate revenue from such sales will be materially and adversely affected, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have only limited experience in regulatory affairs, and some of our products may be based on new technologies. These factors may affect our ability or the time we require to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We have only limited experience in filing and prosecuting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals for medical devices and drug products. Moreover, some of the products that are likely to result from our product development, licensing and acquisition programs may be based on new technologies that have not been extensively tested in humans. The regulatory requirements governing these types of product candidates may be less well defined or more rigorous than for conventional products. As a result, we may experience a longer regulatory process in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals of any products that we develop, license or acquire. The adoption of healthcare reform in the United States may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively known as the “PPACA”) became federal law in the United States. This law represents comprehensive health care reform. The PPACA includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law imposes a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of medical devices beginning in 2013. The PPACA also includes numerous provisions that limit Medicare spending through reductions in various fee schedule payments and by instituting more sweeping payment reforms, such as bundled payments for episodes of care and the establishment of “accountable care organizations” under which hospitals and physicians will be able to share savings that result from cost control efforts. Many of these provisions will be implemented through the regulatory process, and policy details have not yet been finalized. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict the impact that these federal and state healthcare reforms will have on us. However, if any one or more of our products are approved for sale in the United States, the PPACA and other reforms may lower reimbursements for the approved product, reduce medical procedure volumes relating to the approved product, impact demand for the product or the prices at which we may sell the product, and increase our cost of doing business. The impact of the PPACA and other reforms may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reforms in the healthcare industry and the uncertainty associated with pharmaceutical and medical device pricing, reimbursement and related matters could adversely affect the marketing, pricing and demand for our products, if approved. Increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in the United States. Both private and government entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. In addition to the PPACA, numerous proposals that would result in changes to the U.S. healthcare system have been introduced or proposed in the U.S. Congress and in certain state legislatures within the United States, including reductions in the pricing of prescription products and changes in the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products. For example, in 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 became federal law in the United States. Although we cannot predict the full effect of the implementation of this legislation on our business, the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers and other managed care organizations, may result in additional government reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may make some prescription drugs more affordable but may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. We believe that legislation that reduces reimbursement for our product candidates could adversely impact how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our products, if approved. This may materially and adversely impact our business by reducing our ability to generate revenue, raise capital, obtain additional licensees and market our products, if approved. In addition, we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS put pressure on the price and usage of medical devices and pharmaceutical products, which may adversely impact product sales, upon approval, if at all. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse and false claims laws and regulations. If we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face substantial penalties. As we begin commercializing Augmatrix in the United States, our operations will be directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the federal False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending, or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The term “remuneration” is not defined in the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including for example, gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash, waivers of payment, ownership interests and providing anything at less than its fair market value. The reach of the Anti-Kickback Statute was also broadened by PPACA, which, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the applicable criminal healthcare fraud statutes contained within 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b, effective March 23, 2010. Pursuant to the statutory amendment, a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act (discussed below) or the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes penalties against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute is broad, and despite a series of narrow safe harbors, prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and do not contain identical safe harbors. The federal False Claims Act imposes liability on any person who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program. The “qui tam” provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring civil actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In addition, various states have enacted false claims laws analogous to the False Claims Act. Many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payer and not merely a federal healthcare program. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties of $5,000 to $10,000 for each separate false claim. In addition, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created several new federal crimes, including health care fraud, and false statements relating to health care matters. The health care fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private third-party payers. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under any of these or other fraud and abuse laws, or the impact of such actions. Moreover, to the extent that our products will be sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations. If we are found to have violated any of 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare reimbursement programs and the curtailment or restructuring or our operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of operations. If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our approved products by third party payers, there may be no commercially viable markets for our approved products or the markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third party payers affect the market for our approved products. The efficacy, safety, performance and cost-effectiveness of our product and product candidates and of any competing products will determine the availability and level of reimbursement. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored healthcare and private insurance. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to produce clinical data, which may involve one or more clinical trials, that compares the cost-effectiveness of our approved products to other available therapies. We may not obtain international reimbursement or pricing approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement or pricing approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our approved products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third party payers may adversely affect the demand for our future approved products currently under development and limit our ability to sell our approved products on a profitable basis. In addition, third party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and services. If reimbursement for any approved product is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of the approved products would be impaired and our future revenues, if any, would be adversely affected. Patients may discontinue their participation in our clinical trials, which may negatively impact the results of these studies and extend the timeline for completion of our development programs. Clinical trials for our product candidates require sufficient patient enrollment. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely or cost-effective manner. Patients enrolled in our clinical studies may discontinue their participation at any time during the study as a result of a number of factors, including withdrawing their consent or experiencing adverse clinical events, which may or may not be judged related to our product candidates under evaluation. In addition, the time required to complete clinical trials is dependent upon, among other factors, the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • the nature of the clinical protocol requirements; • the availability of other treatments or marketed therapies (whether approved or experimental); • our ability to recruit and manage clinical centers and associated trials; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; and • the patient eligibility criteria for the study. If a large number of patients in any one of our studies discontinue their participation in the study, the results from that study may not be positive or may not support a filing for regulatory approval of our product candidates, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS Product quality or performance issues may be discovered through ongoing regulation by the FDA and by comparable international agencies, as well as through our internal standard quality process. The medical device industry is subject to substantial regulation by the FDA and by comparable international agencies. In addition to requiring clearance or approval to market new or improved devices, we are subject to ongoing regulation as a device manufacturer. Governmental regulations cover many aspects of our operations, including quality systems, marketing and device reporting. As a result, we continually collect and analyze information about product quality and product performance through field observations, customer feedback and other quality metrics. Any product quality or performance issues that are discovered during our information collection and analysis efforts in connection with our regulatory compliance may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The use of hazardous materials in our operations may subject us to environmental claims or liability. We intend to conduct research and development and some future manufacturing operations in our Franklin, Tennessee facility. Our research and development processes will involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive compounds. We will conduct experiments that are common in the biotechnology industry, in which we may use small quantities of chemical hazards, including those that are corrosive, toxic and flammable, and trace amounts of radioactive materials. The risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials cannot be eliminated. We do not maintain a separate insurance policy for these types of risks. If there is an accident or environmental discharge or contamination, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We received orphan drug designation for rhPDGF-BB treatment of osteochondritis dissecans, but there can be no assurance that the product will be able to obtain orphan drug market exclusivity. The FDA has granted orphan drug designation for rhPDGF-BB to be used in conjunction with autograft and/or commercially available osteochondral allograft for the treatment of osteochondritis dissecans (“OCD”) of the knee, elbow or ankle. Orphan drug status may be designated for a drug that has the potential to treat a “rare disease or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals within the United States. Orphan drug designation does not convey an advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the review and approval process. If a product which has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, meaning that the FDA may not approve any other application to market the same drug for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for a period of seven years. There can be no assurance that a product candidate that receives orphan drug designation will receive orphan drug marketing exclusivity. More than one drug can have orphan designation for the same indication. If the FDA grants orphan designation to more than one drug candidate for the same orphan indication, and if one of those other drugs is approved before our product candidate is approved for that indication, we would not receive orphan exclusivity and would be blocked for seven years from having our product candidate approved for that indication. In addition, neither orphan drug designation nor orphan drug exclusivity prevents competitors from developing or marketing different drugs for that indication. We may seek to develop additional products that incorporate drugs that have received orphan drug designations for specific indications. In each case, there can be no assurance that our product candidate will be the first to be approved by the FDA for a given indication or be granted orphan drug exclusivity. In each case, if our product candidate is not the first to be approved for a given indication, and another drug receives orphan drug exclusivity, we may be unable to access the target market in the United States, which would have a material adverse effect on our company, our results of operations and our financial condition. 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Relating to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We have a history of losses and we expect to continue to incur losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have invested and continue to invest a significant portion of our time and resources in developing and testing our product candidates. As a result of our significant research and development, clinical development, regulatory compliance and general and administrative expenses, we expect that our operating losses may continue for the next few years as we continue to incur significant expenses for clinical trials and regulatory activities. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $160.6 million. We have ongoing pivotal clinical studies for the use of Augment and Augment Injectable for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions, in addition to a pilot clinical trial to assess the safety and clinical utility of Augment Rotator Cuff for the repair of large rotator cuff tears. In January 2008, we sold to Luitpold our remaining orofacial therapeutic business, and granted Luitpold the rights to the downstream formulation, fill, finish, manufacturing and kitting of GEM 21S. This transaction has enabled us to focus our expertise and our future development efforts on our orthopedic, spine and sports medicine product candidates. This transaction leaves us without an FDA approved product currently in commercialization in the United States. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. At December 31, 2011, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards totaling $124.6 million available to reduce our future federal income tax liabilities. Our ability to use these net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our future federal income tax liabilities may be subject to annual limitations. In connection with any future offering, we may realize a “more than fifty percent change in ownership” which could further limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards accumulated to date to reduce future taxable income and tax liabilities. Additionally, because U.S. tax laws limit the time during which net operating loss carryforwards may be applied against future taxable income and tax liabilities, we may not be able to take advantage of our net operating loss for federal income tax purposes. The inability to take advantage of all or part of our accumulated net operating loss may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need to raise additional capital in the future. If we are unable to successfully raise additional capital in the future, our product development could be limited and our long term viability may be threatened; however, if we raise additional capital, your percentage ownership as a stockholder could decrease and constraints could be placed on the operation of our business. We have experienced negative operating cash flows since inception and have funded our operations primarily from proceeds received from sales of our stock, the licensing and sale of our orofacial therapeutic business, sublicense fee income recorded from the receipt of certain milestones, and to a lesser extent, royalty income, investment income and product sales. We believe that the December 31, 2011 balance of our cash and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements at least through 2013. We may seek to obtain additional funds at any time in the future through equity or debt financings, or strategic alliances with third parties, either alone or in combination with equity financings. We may seek such additional funds regardless of the extent to which funds are raised in a public offering as identified in our shelf registration statement described below. In 2009, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC registering the offer and sale of up to $150.0 million of certain securities which has been declared effective. In 2010, under the shelf registration statement, we raised net proceeds of approximately $45.0 million in a public offering of common stock. We may from time to time, in one or more series, separately or together, sell additional shares of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities or warrants to purchase our common stock or any combination of such securities in an amount equal to slightly more than $100.0 million. Our current stock price is significantly depressed, which together with recent delays in our Augment development program and other 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS events may severely impair our ability to raise additional capital funds. There can be no assurance that any such funding will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, or that we will successfully raise a sufficient amount of capital in any future public offerings to fund operations through profitability. Potential financings may result in substantial dilution to the holders of our common stock or require contractual or other restrictions on our operations or on alternatives that may be available to us in considering strategic transactions, dividends or liquidation preferences, debt service and/or revenue sharing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. Any such required financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us and the failure to procure such required financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A variety of factors could impact our need to raise additional capital, the timing of any required financings and the amount of such financings. Factors that may cause our future capital requirements to be greater than anticipated or could accelerate our need for funds include, without limitation: • unforeseen developments during our pre-clinical activities and clinical trials; • delays in the timing of receipt of required regulatory approvals; • the failure of our Augment PMA Amendment that we anticipate filing by the middle of 2012 to satisfactorily address the issues raised by the FDA in its post-panel response letter; • the FDA determining that a new clinical trial will be required before our Augment PMA can be approved; • unanticipated expenditures in research and development or manufacturing activities; • legal expenses, including expenses associated with the securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits filed against us, and with other regulatory inquiries, and any settlement or damage payments associated with litigation; • delayed market acceptance of our product or product candidates, if approved; • increased expenses associated with the commercialization of Augmatrix; • the failure to achieve sufficient sales of Augmatrix in order to adequately offset commercialization expenses; • unanticipated expenditures in the acquisition and defense of intellectual property rights; • the failure to develop strategic alliances for the marketing of our product or product candidates, if approved; • additional inventory builds to adequately support the launch of new products; • unforeseen changes in healthcare reimbursement for procedures using our product or product candidates, if approved; • inability to train a sufficient number of surgeons to create demand for our product or product candidates, if approved; • lack of financial resources to adequately support our operations; • difficulties in maintaining commercial scale manufacturing capacity and capability; • unforeseen problems with our third-party manufacturers and service providers or with our specialty suppliers of certain raw materials; • unanticipated difficulties in operating in international markets; 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS • unanticipated financial resources needed to respond to technological changes and increased competition; • unforeseen problems in attracting qualified personnel or retaining key personnel to manage our business, including personnel to oversee our development programs and personnel to market and sell our product or product candidates, if approved; • enactment of new legislation or administrative regulations; • the application to our business of new court decisions and regulatory interpretations; • claims that might be brought in excess of our insurance coverage; • the failure to comply with regulatory guidelines; • unforeseen cost overruns associated with build out of our new manufacturing facility that we have leased; and • the uncertainty in industry demand and patient wellness behavior as businesses and individuals are impacted by the current economic uncertainty. In addition, we may seek to expand our operations and product line through acquisitions or joint ventures. Any acquisition or joint venture would likely increase our capital requirements, and could distract management’s attention from our current product development programs or the commercialization of Augment, or could require us to divert operational resources. If adequate financing is not available, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate our operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our business, operating results and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) requires us to include a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting. This report, which is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not our internal controls are effective. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains a statement that our independent auditors have issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. In 2007, we began to document and evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significant costs, and the commitment of time and operational resources. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent auditors are unable to express an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, then the market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer. Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will be highly volatile. The current, active and liquid trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any securities analysts will initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our common stock. 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS The trading prices of the securities of medical technology and biotechnology companies have been highly volatile. Our stock has been and can be expected to continue to be highly volatile, particularly around the time of scheduled or expected announcements by us or regulatory agencies with respect to matters under regulatory review, such as, for example, announcements by us or the FDA regarding our Augment PMA. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include, among other things: • whether we receive FDA approval to market any of our product candidates in the United States or similar regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions; • whether we successfully commercialize Augment in Canada or Australia or any other approved product in the future; • the status of litigation against us, our directors, and certain of our officers, or the status of regulatory inquiries brought against us and our officers and directors; • developments relating to patents, proprietary rights and potential infringement; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial products; • reimbursement policies of various governmental and third party payers; • public concern over the safety and efficacy of GEM 21S, Augment, Augment Injectable, Augment Rotator Cuff or any of our product candidates or any PDGF-containing product; • changes in estimates of our revenue and operating results; • variances in our cash flow, revenue or operating results from forecasts or projections; • recommendations of securities analysts regarding investment in our stock; • our ability to maintain or raise sufficient capital to fund our operations until we are able to commercialize a product candidate and become profitable; and • market conditions in our industry and the current economic uncertainty as a whole. If our future quarterly or annual operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, then the price of our common stock will likely decline. In addition, share price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals or milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we expect that we will publicly announce the anticipated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, our stock price may decline and the commercialization of our product and product candidates may be delayed. Future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors or existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock may drop significantly if our officers, directors or existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. All of the shares sold in our May 2006 initial public offering, our February 2007 secondary offering, our June 2009 rights offering, and our July 2010 public offering are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, except for shares purchased by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We expect that we also will be required to register any securities sold in future private financings. In addition, all of the common stock issued prior to our initial public offering is freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless owned by our affiliates. Shares held by our affiliates may also be tradable under Rule 144, subject to the volume restrictions of that rule. Our executive officers and directors may sell stock in 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS the future, either as part, or outside, of trading plans under SEC Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. Sales by stockholders of substantial amounts of our shares, including sales by Novo A/S or InterWest Partners, or the perception that these sales may occur in the future, could affect materially and adversely the market price of our common stock. At December 31, 2011, there were options issued and outstanding to purchase 2,748,331 shares of our common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $11.62. Also at December 31, 2011, there were 1,904,829 options available for future issuance of options under our stock option plans. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates maintain the ability to substantially influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. As of December 31, 2011, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned shares representing approximately 14.6% of our capital stock. This total includes 1,830,253 shares (6.5% of our capital stock) owned by InterWest Partners, X, L.P. and its affiliates. Chris Ehrlich, one of our directors, is an affiliate of InterWest Partners. In addition, 4,720,065 shares (16.8% of our capital stock) are owned by Novo A/S. Thorkil K. Christensen, one of our directors, is the Chief Financial Officer of Novo A/S. Accordingly, our current executive officers, directors and their affiliates have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions, as well as management and affairs. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control of us at a premium price if these stockholders oppose it, even if it would benefit our other stockholders. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us. Provisions of our corporate charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. 54 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 