Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business If the CyberKnife system does not achieve widespread market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. Achieving physician, patient, hospital administrator and third-party payor acceptance of the CyberKnife system as a preferred method of tumor treatment will be crucial to our continued success. Physicians will not begin to use or increase the use of the CyberKnife system unless they determine, based on experience, clinical data and other factors, that the CyberKnife system is a safe and effective alternative to current treatment methods. The CyberKnife system was initially used primarily for the treatment of tumors in the brain, and the broader use of the system to treat tumors elsewhere in the body has been a more recent development. As a result, physician and patient acceptance of the CyberKnife system as a comprehensive tool for treatment of solid tumor cancers anywhere in the body has not yet been fully demonstrated, particularly as compared to products, systems or technologies that have longer histories in the marketplace. The CyberKnife system is a major capital purchase and purchase decisions are greatly influenced by hospital administrators who are subject to increasing 26 Table of Contents pressures to reduce costs. These and other factors may affect the rate and level of the CyberKnife system's market acceptance, including: •the CyberKnife system's price relative to other products or competing treatments; •effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; •the impact of the current economic environment on our business, including the postponement by our customers of purchase decisions or required build-outs; •capital equipment budgets of healthcare institutions; •perception by physicians and other members of the healthcare community of the CyberKnife system's safety, efficacy and benefits compared to competing technologies or treatments; •publication in peer-reviewed medical journals of data regarding the successful use and longer term clinical benefits of the CyberKnife system; •willingness of physicians to adopt new techniques and the ability of physicians to acquire the skills necessary to operate the CyberKnife system; •extent of third-party coverage and reimbursement for procedures using the CyberKnife system; •development of new products and technologies by our competitors or new treatment alternatives; •regulatory developments related to manufacturing, marketing and selling the CyberKnife system both within and outside the United States; •perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products; and •unfavorable publicity concerning the CyberKnife system or radiation-based treatment alternatives. If the CyberKnife system is unable to achieve or maintain market acceptance, our business would be harmed. We have a large accumulated deficit, may expect future losses and may be unable to maintain profitability. We have incurred net losses in every fiscal year since our inception except during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008. As of June 30, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $120.5 million. We may incur net losses in the future, particularly as we increase our manufacturing, sales and marketing and administrative activities and as we continue our research and development activities. Our ability to maintain long-term profitability is largely dependent on our ability to successfully market and sell the CyberKnife system and to control our costs and effectively manage our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain profitability. In the event we fail to maintain profitability, our stock price could decline. We face risks related to the current global economic environment, which could delay or prevent our customers from obtaining financing to purchase the CyberKnife system and implement the required facilities, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions resulting from the recent disruption in credit markets poses a risk to the overall economy that could impact consumer and customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors, including financial institutions. If the current situation deteriorates significantly, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general economy, supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets and/or temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions through our financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. 27 Table of Contents In addition, due to the recent tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit, particularly in the United States, some of our customers have been delayed in obtaining, or have not be able to obtain, necessary financing for their purchases of the CyberKnife system or for the construction or renovation of facilities to house CyberKnife systems. To date, these delays have primarily affected customers that were planning to operate free-standing CyberKnife systems, rather than hospital-based customers. These delays have in some instances led to our customers postponing the shipment and installation of previously ordered systems or cancelling their system orders and may cause other customers to postpone their system installation or to cancel their agreements with us. An increase in delays and order cancellations of this nature would adversely affect our product sales and revenues, and therefore harm our business and results of operations. The high unit price of the CyberKnife system, as well as other factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our operating results. Because of the high unit price of the CyberKnife system, and the relatively small number of units installed each quarter, each installation of a CyberKnife system can represent a significant component of our revenue for a particular quarter. Therefore, if we do not install a CyberKnife system when anticipated, our operating results will vary significantly. This is of particular concern in the current volatile economic environment, where we have had experiences with customers cancelling or postponing orders for our CyberKnife system and delaying the required build-outs. These fluctuations and other potential fluctuations mean that you should not rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. In particular, factors which may contribute to these fluctuations may include: •timing of when we are able to recognize revenue associated with sales of the CyberKnife system, which varies depending upon the terms of the applicable sales and service contracts; •the proportion of revenue attributable to purchases of the CyberKnife system, our shared ownership program and installations associated with our legacy service plans; •timing and level of expenditures associated with new product development activities; •regulatory requirements in some states for a certificate of need prior to the installation of a radiation device; •delays in shipment due, for example, to unanticipated construction delays at customer locations where our products are to be installed, cancellations by customers, natural disasters or labor disturbances; •delays in our manufacturing processes or unexpected manufacturing difficulties; •timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product upgrades by us and by our competitors; •timing and level of expenditures associated with expansion of sales and marketing activities such as trade shows and our overall operations; •disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; and •changes in third party coverage and reimbursement, changes in government regulation, or a change in a customer's financial condition or ability to obtain financing. These factors are difficult to forecast and may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and substantial variation from our projections, particularly during the periods in which our sales volume is low. These fluctuations may cause volatility in our stock price. 28 Table of Contents We experience a long and variable sales and installation cycle, which may result in inconsistent quarterly results. The CyberKnife system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital equipment item and requires the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. The sales process in the United States typically begins with pre-selling activity followed by sales presentations and other sales-related activities. After the customer has expressed an intention to purchase a CyberKnife system, we negotiate and enter into a definitive purchase contract with the customer. This may take the form of a terms agreement setting forth the business and economic terms of the transaction. Typically, following the execution of the contract, the customer begins the building or renovation of a facility to house the CyberKnife system, which together with the subsequent installation of the CyberKnife system, can take up to 24 months to complete. During the period prior to installation, the customer must build a radiation-shielded facility to house its CyberKnife system. In order to construct this facility, the customer must typically obtain radiation device installation permits, which are granted by state and local government bodies, each of which may have different criteria for permit issuance. If a permit were denied for installation at a specific hospital or treatment center, our CyberKnife system could not be installed at that location. In addition, some of our customers are cancer centers or facilities that are new, and in these cases it may be necessary for the entire facility to be completed before the CyberKnife system can be installed, which can result in additional construction and installation delays. Under our revenue recognition policy, we generally do not recognize revenue attributable to a CyberKnife system purchase until after installation has occurred. For international sales through distributors, we typically recognize revenue when the system is sold through to the end user. Therefore the long sales cycle together with the timing of CyberKnife system shipments and installations may result in significant fluctuations in our reporting of quarterly revenues. Under our current forms of purchase and service contracts, we receive a majority of the purchase price for the CyberKnife system upon installation of the system. Events beyond our control may delay installation and the satisfaction of contingencies required to receive cash inflows and recognize revenue, such as: •procurement delay; •customer funding or financing delay; •delay in or unforeseen difficulties related to customers organizing legal entities and obtaining financing for CyberKnife system acquisition; •construction delay; •delay pending customer receipt of a building or radiation device installation permit; and •delay caused by weather or natural disaster. In the event that a customer does not, for any of the reasons above or other reasons proceed with installation of the system after entering into a purchase contract, we would only recognize up to the deposit portion of the purchase price as revenue, unless the deposit was refunded to the customer. Therefore, delays in the installation of CyberKnife systems or customer cancellations would adversely affect our cash flows and revenue, which would harm our results of operations. If third-party payors do not provide sufficient coverage and reimbursement to healthcare providers for use of the CyberKnife system, our revenue would be adversely affected. Our customers rely significantly on reimbursement for CyberKnife procedures. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in significant part on the extent to which public and private third-party payors provide appropriate coverage and reimbursement for our products and related procedures. If reimbursement policies or other cost containment measures are instituted in a manner that significantly reduces the coverage for or payment of our products, our existing customers 29 Table of Contents may not continue using our product or may decrease their use of our product, and we may have difficulty obtaining new customers. Such actions would likely have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our industry is subject to intense competition and rapid technological change, which may result in products or new tumor treatments that are superior to the CyberKnife system. If we are unable to anticipate or keep pace with changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands, our products may become less useful or obsolete and our operating results will suffer. The medical device industry in general and the non-invasive cancer treatment field in particular are subject to intense and increasing competition and rapidly evolving technologies. Because our products often have long development and government approval cycles, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands. To compete successfully, we will need to continue to demonstrate the advantages of our products and technologies over well-established alternative procedures, products and technologies, and convince physicians and other healthcare decision makers of the advantages of our products and technologies. Traditional surgery and other forms of minimally invasive procedures, chemotherapy or other drugs remain alternatives to the CyberKnife system. Also, we compete directly with traditional radiosurgery systems primarily from Elekta AB (publ), or Elekta, BrainLAB AG, the Integra Radionics business of Integra LifeSciences Holdings Corporation, or Radionics, and Varian Medical Systems, Inc., or Varian. The market for standard linear accelerators is dominated by three companies: Elekta, Siemens AG and Varian. In addition, TomoTherapy Incorporated markets and sells a radiation therapy product. The CyberKnife system is not typically used to perform traditional radiation therapy and therefore does not usually compete directly with standard medical linacs that perform standard radiation therapy. However, some manufacturers of standard linac based radiation therapy systems, including Varian and Elekta, have products that can be used in combination with body and/or head frames and image- guidance systems to perform radiosurgery. In addition, many government, academic and business entities are investing substantial resources in research and development of cancer treatments, including surgical approaches, radiation treatment, drug treatment, gene therapy, which is the treatment of disease by replacing, manipulating, or supplementing nonfunctional genes, and other approaches. Moreover, at least one other company has announced that it is developing a product that would be directly competitive with the CyberKnife. Successful developments that result in new approaches for the treatment of cancer could reduce the attractiveness of our products or render them obsolete. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to establish and maintain a competitive position in current and future technologies. Rapid technological development may render the CyberKnife system and its technologies obsolete. Many of our competitors have or may have greater corporate, financial, operational, sales and marketing resources, and more experience in research and development than we have. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our products or that would render our technologies and products obsolete. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with our technologies. Our competitive position also depends on: •widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the radiation oncology and cancer therapy markets of our products; •the discovery of new technologies that improve the effectiveness and productivity of the CyberKnife system radiosurgery process; •product coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, insurance companies and others; 30 Table of Contents •properly identifying customer needs and delivering new products or product enhancements to address those needs; •published studies supporting the efficacy and safety and long-term clinical benefit of the CyberKnife system; •limiting the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; •limiting the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; •our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; •the extent of our patent protection or our ability to otherwise develop proprietary products and processes; •securing sufficient capital resources to expand both our continued research and development, and sales and marketing efforts; and •obtaining any necessary United States or foreign marketing approvals or clearances. If the CyberKnife system is not competitive based on these or other factors, our business would be harmed. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to protect from fraudulent, illegal or unauthorized transactions. If we cannot provide effective controls and reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. Our management determined, as of June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008, that we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. We began our remediation efforts in the first half of the fiscal year 2009 and management continued to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting through June 30, 2009. We concluded that there were no deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that would constitute a material weakness as of that date. Although we are making additional improvements in our internal controls over financial reporting, in future periods we may conclude that we have one or more material weaknesses, and remedying these material weaknesses may require significant additional financial and managerial resources and could result in a loss of investor confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting. We may have difficulties in determining the effectiveness of our internal control due to our complex financial model. The complexity of our financial model contributes to our need for effective financial reporting systems and internal controls. We recognize revenue from a range of transactions including CyberKnife system sales, our shared ownership program and services. The CyberKnife system is a complex product that contains both hardware and software elements. Since the software component is significant in our solution, we are bound by the software revenue recognition rules for our business. The complexity of the CyberKnife system and of our financial model pertaining to revenue recognition requires us to process a broader range of financial transactions than would be required by a company with a less complex financial model. Accordingly, deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls would likely impact us more significantly than they would impact a company with a less complex financial model. If we were to find that our internal controls were deficient, we could be required to amend or restate our historical financial statements, which would likely have a negative impact on our stock price. 31 Table of Contents Our reliance on single source suppliers for critical components of the CyberKnife system could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely and cost effective manner. We currently depend on single source suppliers for some of the critical components necessary for the assembly of the CyberKnife system, including the robotic manipulator, imaging plates, treatment table, robotic couch and magnetron, which creates the microwaves for use in the linear accelerator. If any single source suppliers were to cease delivering components to us or fail to provide the components on a timely basis, we might be required to qualify an alternate supplier and we would likely experience a lengthy delay in our manufacturing processes or a cessation in production, which would result in delays of shipment to end users. We cannot assure you that our single source suppliers will be able or willing to meet our future demands. We generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. Furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a critical component of the CyberKnife system, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities, procedures and operations that comply with our quality and applicable regulatory requirements. We also will be required to assess the new manufacturer's compliance with all applicable regulations and guidelines, which could further impede our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner. If the change in manufacturer results in a significant change to the product, a new 510(k) clearance would be necessary, which would likely cause substantial delays. The disruption or termination of the supply of key components for the CyberKnife system could harm our ability to generate revenue, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. It is difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technologies, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our success depends significantly on our ability to obtain, maintain and protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. Patents and other proprietary rights provide uncertain protections, and we may be unable to protect our intellectual property. For example, we may be unsuccessful in defending our patents and other proprietary rights against third party challenges. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. These measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. If these measures do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. Although we have attempted to obtain patent coverage for our technology where available and appropriate, there are aspects of the technology for which patent coverage was never sought or never received. There are also countries in which we sell or intend to sell the CyberKnife system but have no patents or pending patent applications. Our ability to prevent others from making or selling duplicate or similar technologies will be impaired in those countries in which we have no patent protection. Although we have several issued patents in the United States and in foreign countries protecting aspects of the CyberKnife system, our pending United States and foreign patent applications may not issue, may issue only with limited coverage or may issue and be subsequently successfully challenged by others and held invalid or unenforceable. Similarly, our issued patents and those of our licensors may not provide us with any competitive advantages. Competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products which provide outcomes comparable or superior to ours. Our patents may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties, and others may challenge the inventorship or ownership of our patents and pending patent applications. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be difficult and time consuming. Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property 32 Table of Contents rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be expensive and time consuming and could divert our management's attention. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against a challenge. We also license patent and other proprietary rights to aspects of our technology to third parties in fields where we currently do not operate as well as in fields where we currently do operate. Disputes with our licensees may arise regarding the scope and content of these licenses. Further, our ability to expand into additional fields with our technologies may be restricted by our existing licenses or licenses we may grant to third parties in the future. In October 2006, January 2007 and February 2007, we received correspondence from American Science and Engineering, Inc., or AS&E, expressing concerns that we may be using certain intellectual property we acquired from AS&E through the HES acquisition in a manner that breaches, or may breach, our contractual obligations under a license agreement with them in certain non-medical fields. We have had limited discussions with AS&E regarding their allegations but as of June 30, 2009, we have not received any further written correspondence from AS&E regarding this issue. The intellectual property at issue relates to the development of a next-generation linac that could be used for medical as well as non-medical purposes. We are developing the technology used in the next-generation linac independently from the intellectual property we obtained from the HES acquisition. While we do not believe our activities breach or violate the terms of the license agreement, we cannot assure you that AS&E will not commence litigation on the grounds that we are in breach of our obligations under the license agreement. The policies we have in place to protect our trade secrets may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our trade secrets by others. In addition, confidentiality agreements executed by our employees, consultants and advisors may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Litigating a trade secret claim is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge methods and know-how. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to prevent competitors from using our own inventions and intellectual property to compete against us, and our business may be harmed. Because the medical device industry is characterized by competing intellectual property, we may be sued for violating the intellectual property rights of others. The medical device industry is characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, the field of radiation treatment of cancer is well established and crowded with the intellectual property of competitors and others. We also expect that other participants will enter the field—in particular, at least one other company has announced that it is developing a product that would be directly competitive with the CyberKnife. A number of companies in our market, as well as universities and research institutions, have issued patents and have filed patent applications which relate to the use of stereotactic radiosurgery to treat solid cancerous and benign tumors. Determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of patent litigation actions is often uncertain. We have not conducted an extensive search of patents issued to third parties, and no assurance can be given that third party patents containing claims covering our products, parts of our products, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas or fields, our competitors or other third parties may assert that our products and the methods we employ in the use of our products are covered by United States or foreign patents held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue and because publication schedules for pending applications vary by jurisdiction, there may be applications now 33 Table of Contents pending of which we are unaware, and which may result in issued patents which our current or future products infringe. Also, because the claims of published patent applications can change between publication and patent grant, there may be published patent applications that may ultimately issue with claims that we infringe. There could also be existing patents that one or more of our products or parts may infringe and of which we are unaware. As the number of competitors in the market for less invasive cancer treatment alternatives grows, and as the number of patents issued in this area grows, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us increases. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. In the event that we become subject to a patent infringement or other intellectual property lawsuit and if the relevant patents or other intellectual property were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe or violate the terms of a license to which we are a party, we could be prevented from selling our products unless we could obtain a license or were able to redesign the product to avoid infringement. If we were unable to obtain a license or successfully redesign our system, we might be prevented from selling our system. If there is an allegation or determination that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of a competitor or other person, we may be required to pay damages, or a settlement or ongoing royalties. In these circumstances, we may be unable to sell our products at competitive prices or at all, our business and operating results could be harmed. We could become subject to product liability claims, product recalls, other field actions and warranty claims that could be expensive, divert management's attention and harm our business. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical device products. We may be held liable if the CyberKnife system causes injury or death or is found otherwise unsuitable during usage. Our products incorporate sophisticated components and computer software. Complex software can contain errors, particularly when first introduced. In addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after installation. Because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, defects could result in a number of complications, some of which could be serious and could harm or kill patients. It is also possible that defects in the design, manufacture or labeling of our products might necessitate a product recall or other field corrective action, which may result in warranty claims beyond our expectations and may harm our reputation. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. If sales of our products increase or we suffer future product liability claims, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or with adequate amounts. A product liability claim, any product recalls or other field actions or excessive warranty claims, whether arising from defects in design or manufacture or otherwise, could negatively affect our sales or require a change in the design, manufacturing process or the indications for which the CyberKnife system may be used, any of which could harm our reputation and business, result in a decline in revenue. In addition, if a product we designed or manufactured is defective, whether due to design or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons, we may be required to notify regulatory authorities and/or to recall the product, possibly at our expense. We have voluntarily conducted recalls and product corrections in the past. In 2002, we were subject to a product recall in Japan, as a result of a failure of our prior distributor to coordinate product modifications and obtain necessary regulatory approvals in a timely manner. In April 2007, we initiated a product correction at twenty different sites related to a software malfunction of the CyberKnife system. As a result of this software malfunction, we provided affected devices with software upgrades designed to correct the 34 Table of Contents problems that have been identified. We have notified the FDA regarding these software upgrades and corrections. We cannot ensure that the FDA will not require that we take additional actions to address the software malfunctions. A required notification to a regulatory authority or recall could result in an investigation by regulatory authorities of our products, which could in turn result in required recalls, restrictions on the sale of the products or other civil or criminal penalties. The adverse publicity resulting from any of these actions could cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. These investigations or recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity or termination of customer contracts, could result in our incurring substantial costs, losing revenues and damaging our reputation, each of which would harm our business. The safety and efficacy of our products for certain uses is not yet supported by long-term clinical data and may therefore prove to be less safe and effective than initially thought. Although we believe that the CyberKnife system has advantages over competing products and technologies, we do not have sufficient clinical data demonstrating these advantages for all tumor indications. For example, because our CyberKnife procedures are relatively new, we have limited clinical data relating to the effectiveness of the CyberKnife system as a means of controlling the growth of cancer at a particular body site. In addition, we have only limited five-year patient survival rate data, which is a common long-term measure of clinical effectiveness in cancer treatment. Further, future patient studies or clinical experience may indicate that treatment with the CyberKnife system does not improve patient outcomes. Such results could slow the adoption of our products by physicians, significantly reduce our ability to achieve expected revenues and could prevent us from becoming profitable. In addition, if future results and experience indicate that our products cause unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects, the FDA could rescind our clearances, our reputation with physicians, patients and others may suffer and we could be subject to significant legal liability. The CyberKnife system has been in use for a limited period of time for uses outside the brain and the medical community has not yet developed a large quantity of peer-reviewed literature that supports safe and effective use in those locations in the body. The CyberKnife system was initially cleared by a number of regulatory authorities for the treatment of tumors in the brain and neck. More recently, the CyberKnife system has been cleared in the United States to treat tumors anywhere in the body where radiation is indicated, and our future growth is dependent in large part on continued growth in full body use of the system. Currently, however, there are a limited number of peer-reviewed medical journal publications regarding the safety and efficacy of the CyberKnife system for treatment of tumors outside the brain or spine. If later studies show that the CyberKnife system is less effective or less safe with respect to particular types of solid tumors, or in the event clinical studies do not achieve the results anticipated at the outset of the study, use of the CyberKnife system could fail to increase or could decrease and our growth and operating results would therefore be harmed. International sales of the CyberKnife system account for a significant portion of our revenue, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. Our international sales have increased year-over-year for each of the past three fiscal years. We anticipate that a significant portion of our revenue will continue to be derived from sales of the CyberKnife system in foreign markets and that the percentage of our overall revenue that is derived from these markets will continue to increase. This revenue and related operations will therefore continue to be subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: •economic or political instability; •shipping delays; 35 Table of Contents •changes in foreign regulatory laws governing sales of medical devices; •difficulties in enforcing agreements with and collecting receivables from customers outside the United States; •longer payment cycles associated with many customers outside the United States; •adequate reimbursement for the CyberKnife procedure outside the United States; •failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property; •protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors; •risks relating to foreign currency; and •contractual provisions governed by foreign laws and various trade restrictions, including U.S. prohibitions and restrictions on exports of certain products and technologies to certain nations. Our international operations are also subject to United States laws regarding the conduct of business overseas by U.S. companies. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits the provision of illegal or improper inducements to foreign government officials in connection with the obtaining of business overseas. Violations of the FCPA by us or any of our employees or executive officers could subject us or the individuals involved to criminal or civil liability and could therefore materially harm our business. In addition, future imposition of, or significant increases in, the level of customs duties, export quotas, regulatory restrictions or trade restrictions could materially harm our business. Currently, the majority of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could require us to reduce our sales price or make our products less competitive in international markets. Also, as our international sales increase, we may enter into a greater number of transactions denominated in non-U.S. dollars, which would expose us to foreign currency risks, including changes in currency exchange rates. If we are unable to address these risks and challenges effectively, our international operations may not be successful and our business would be materially harmed. We depend on third-party distributors to market and distribute the CyberKnife system in international markets. If our distributors fail to successfully market and distribute the CyberKnife system, our business will be materially harmed. We depend on a limited number of distributors in our international markets. These international distribution relationships are exclusive by geographic region. We cannot control the efforts and resources our third-party distributors will devote to marketing the CyberKnife system. Our distributors may not be able to successfully market and sell the CyberKnife system, may not devote sufficient time and resources to support the marketing and selling efforts and may not market the CyberKnife system at prices that will permit the product to develop, achieve or sustain market acceptance. If we or our distributors terminate our existing agreements, finding new distributors could be an expensive and time-consuming process and sales could decrease during and after any transition period. If we are unable to attract additional international distributors, our international revenue may not grow. If our distributors experience difficulties, do not actively market the CyberKnife system or do not otherwise perform under our distribution agreements, our potential for revenue from international markets may be dramatically reduced, and our business could be harmed. 36 Table of Contents We have limited experience and capability in manufacturing and may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. The CyberKnife system is complex, and requires the integration of a number of components from several sources of supply. We must manufacture and assemble these complex systems in commercial quantities in compliance with regulatory requirements and at an acceptable cost. We have a limited history of manufacturing commercial quantities of the CyberKnife system. In particular, we manufacture compact linacs as a component of the CyberKnife system. Our linac components are extremely complex devices and require significant expertise to manufacture, and as a result of our limited manufacturing experience we may have difficulty producing needed materials in a commercially viable manner. We may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of the CyberKnife system, including problems with quality control and assurance, component supply shortages, increased costs, shortages of qualified personnel and/or difficulties associated with compliance with local, state, federal and foreign regulatory requirements. If our manufacturing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner which in turn may have a negative effect on our financial results and overall business. Conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may adversely affect our financial results. Our manufacturing processes and the manufacturing processes of our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production processes, controls, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. We are also subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. Because our manufacturing processes include diagnostic and therapeutic X-ray equipment and laser equipment, we are subject to the electronic product radiation control provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which requires that we file reports with the FDA, applicable states and our customers regarding the distribution, manufacturing and installation of these types of equipment. The FDA enforces the QSR and the electronic product radiation control provisions through periodic unannounced inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future to be, subject to such inspections. Our failure or the failure of a third-party supplier to pass a QSR inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays. Our failure to take prompt and satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse inspection or our failure to comply with applicable standards could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, which would cause our sales and business to suffer. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other governmental authorities would agree with our interpretation of applicable regulatory requirements or that we or our third-party suppliers have in all instances fully complied with all applicable requirements. If we cannot achieve the required level and quality of production, we may need to outsource production or rely on licensing and other arrangements with third parties who possess sufficient manufacturing facilities and capabilities in compliance with regulatory requirements. Even if we could outsource needed production or enter into licensing or other third party arrangements, this could reduce our gross margin and expose us to the risks inherent in relying on others. We also cannot assure you that our suppliers will deliver an adequate supply of required components on a timely basis or that they will adequately comply with the QSR. Failure to obtain these components on a timely basis would disrupt our manufacturing processes and increase our costs, which would harm our operating results. 37 Table of Contents We depend on key employees, the loss of whom would adversely affect our business. If we fail to attract and retain employees with the expertise required for our business, we may be unable to continue to grow our business. We are highly dependent on the members of our senior management, operations and research and development staff. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to retain these key employees and to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the medical device industry, particularly in northern California, is intense, and finding and retaining qualified personnel with experience in our industry is very difficult. We believe there are only a limited number of individuals with the requisite skills to serve in many of our key positions and we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. It is increasingly difficult to hire and retain these persons, and we may be unable to replace key persons if they leave or fill new positions requiring key persons with appropriate experience. A significant portion of our compensation to our key employees is in the form of stock option grants. A prolonged depression in our stock price could make it difficult for us to retain our employees and recruit additional qualified personnel. We do not maintain, and do not currently intend to obtain, key employee life insurance on any of our personnel. If we fail to hire and retain personnel in key positions, we may be unable to continue to grow our business successfully. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business may be significantly harmed. The number of our employees increased from 194 as of June 30, 2005 to 458 as of June 30, 2009. In order to implement our business strategy, we expect continued growth in our employee and infrastructure requirements, particularly as we expand our manufacturing and sales and marketing capacities. To manage our growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our management, operational and financial systems, hire and train additional qualified personnel, scale-up our manufacturing capacity and expand our marketing and distribution capabilities. Our manufacturing, assembly and installation process is complex and occurs over many months, and we must effectively scale this entire process to satisfy customer expectations and changes in demand. We also expect to increase the number of sales and marketing personnel as we expand our business. Further, to accommodate our growth and compete effectively, we will be required to improve our information systems. We cannot be certain that our personnel, systems, procedures and internal controls will be adequate to support our future operations. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our business will suffer. Any failure in our physician training efforts could result in lower than expected product sales and potential liabilities. A critical component of our sales and marketing efforts is the training of a sufficient number of physicians to properly utilize the CyberKnife system. We rely on physicians to devote adequate time to learn to use our products. If physicians are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. This may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury and related liability or negative publicity which could have an adverse effect on our product sales. As a result of being a public company, we are incurring increased costs. As a newly public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur increased legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company as we are now subject to Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, NASDAQ Stock Market and other rules focusing on corporate governance and financial reporting. In particular, we were first required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding management assessment of internal controls during our 2008 fiscal year and we will be required to do so in future years. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial fees and costs for future audits. We also expect these rules and regulations to make 38 Table of Contents it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We continue to monitor developments with respect to these requirements, but we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. While we believe that our existing cash and short-term and long-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months, the timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: •market acceptance of our products; •the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; •the existence of opportunities for expansion; and •access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain other debt financing, which could be difficult or impossible in the current economic and capital markets environments. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing, and we cannot assure you that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to use, if at all. We may attempt to acquire new businesses, products or technologies, and if we are unable to successfully complete these acquisitions or to integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies or employees, we may fail to realize expected benefits or harm our existing business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies into our operations, and the process of integration could be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. In addition, we may be unable to retain employees of acquired companies, or retain the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners who are our competitors or who have close relationships with our competitors. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions which could harm our existing business. In addition, future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such as in-process research and development, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results or cause a reduction in the price of our common stock. 39 Table of Contents Our liquidity could be adversely impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At June 30, 2009 we had cash and cash equivalents of $36.8 million. These available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in our operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in interest bearing funds managed by third party financial institutions. These funds invest in direct obligations of the government of the United States. To date we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time we also have funds in our operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions that exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insurance limits. While we monitor daily the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or become subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date we have experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in our operating accounts. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural disasters, epidemics, terrorist acts and other events beyond our control, which would adversely affect our business. Our manufacturing facility is located in a single location in Sunnyvale, California. We do not maintain a backup manufacturing facility, so we depend on our current facility for the continued operation of our business. In addition, we conduct a significant portion of other activities including administration and data processing at facilities located in the State of California which has experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other natural disasters. We carry limited earthquake insurance for inventory only. Such coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. In the event of a major earthquake or other disaster affecting our facilities, it could significantly disrupt our operations, delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment for the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our manufacturing facilities, which could be lengthy, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities. In addition, concerns about terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases such as avian influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, especially in our major markets of North America, Europe and Asia could have a negative effect on travel and our business operations, and result in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. Risks Related to the Regulation of our Products and Business Modifications, upgrades and future products related to the CyberKnife system or new indications may require new FDA premarket approvals or 510(k) clearances, and such modifications, or any defects in design or manufacture may require us to recall or cease marketing the CyberKnife system until approvals or clearances are obtained. The CyberKnife system is a medical device that is subject to extensive regulation in the United States by local, state and the federal government, including by the FDA. The FDA regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device's design, development, testing manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, reporting, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either premarket approval or 510(k) clearance from the FDA, unless an exemption exists. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA's 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months, but it can last longer. The process of obtaining premarket approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and it generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. Despite the time, effort and cost, there can 40 Table of Contents be no assurance that a particular device will be approved or cleared by the FDA through either the premarket approval process or 510(k) clearance process. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The FDA also may change its policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or 510(k) clearance of our device, or could impact our ability to market our currently cleared device. We are also subject to medical device reporting regulations which require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury. We also are subject to Quality System and Medical Device Reporting regulations, which regulate the manufacturing and installation and also require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Our products are also subject to state regulations and various worldwide laws and regulations. A component of our strategy is to continue to upgrade the CyberKnife system. Upgrades previously released by us required 510(k) clearance before we were able to offer them for sale. We expect our future upgrades will similarly require 510(k) clearance; however, future upgrades may be subject to the substantially more time consuming and uncertain premarket approval process. The FDA requires device manufacturers to make their own determination of whether or not a modification requires an approval or clearance; however, the FDA can review a manufacturer's decision not to submit for additional approvals or clearances. Any modification to an FDA approved or cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or efficacy or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new premarket approval or 510(k) clearance. We cannot assure you that the FDA will agree with our decisions not to seek approvals or clearances for particular device modifications or that we will be successful in obtaining 510(k) clearances for modifications. We have obtained 510(k) clearances for the CyberKnife system for the treatment of tumors anywhere in the body where radiation is indicated. We have made modifications to the CyberKnife system in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional approvals or clearances. If the FDA disagrees and requires us to obtain additional premarket approvals or 510(k) clearances for any modifications to the CyberKnife system and we fail to obtain such approvals or clearances or fail to secure approvals or clearances in a timely manner, we may be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or to recall such modified device until we obtain FDA approval or clearance and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, even if the CyberKnife system is not modified, the FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries in which we market and sell our products have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated recall, or a voluntary recall by us, could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling and user manuals. There were a number of recalls during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. For example, in October 2008, the Company initiated a recall of the RoboCouch Patient Positioning System, a component part to certain CyberKnife System configurations. Thirteen RoboCouch units were affected by the recall and all repairs were made at the affected customer sites in the quarter ended December 31, 2008. A full list of recalls is available on the FDA website. The costs associated with this recall were not material. Any recall could divert management's attention, cause us to incur significant expenses, harm our reputation with customers, negatively affect our future sales and business, require redesign of the CyberKnife system, and harm our operating results. In these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant enforcement action. If any of these events were to occur, our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner would be adversely affected, which in turn would harm our future growth. 41 Table of Contents We must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in international markets in which we sell, or seek to sell, our products. In order for us to market and sell the CyberKnife system internationally, either through direct sales personnel or through distributors, we must obtain and maintain regulatory clearances applicable to the countries and regions in which we are selling, or are seeking to sell, our products. These regulatory approvals and clearances, and the process required to obtain and maintain them, vary substantially among international jurisdictions. In some jurisdictions, we rely on our distributors to manage the regulatory process and we are dependent on their ability to do so effectively. For example, our regulatory approval in Japan was suspended for a period of twelve months during 2003 as a result of a failure of our former distributor to coordinate product modifications and obtain necessary regulatory clearances in a timely manner. As a result, the CyberKnife system was recalled in Japan and our former Japanese distributor was told to stop selling the CyberKnife system. In response, we retained a regulatory consultant who was not affiliated with our former Japanese distributor and worked with the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare and applied for, and received, approval to sell an updated version of the CyberKnife system under the name of CyberKnife II in Japan. By working with a new distributor, Chiyoda Technol Corporation, we were able to begin distributing the CyberKnife II system in 2004 with no probationary period. In the event that we are unable to obtain and maintain regulatory clearances for the CyberKnife system, including new clearances for system upgrades and use of the system anywhere in the body, in international markets we have entered or desire to enter, our international sales could fail to grow or decline. Future legislative or regulatory changes to the healthcare system may affect our business. Even if third-party payors provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for the CyberKnife procedure, adverse changes in third-party payors' general policies toward reimbursement could preclude market acceptance for our products and materially harm our sales and revenue growth. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposals to change the healthcare system, and some could involve changes that significantly affect our business. In addition, certain federal regulatory changes occur at least annually. In April 2008, at the time CMS published final 2009 Medicare inpatient reimbursement rates, CMS issued final rules implementing significant amendments to the regulations under the federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act, which is more commonly known as the Stark Law, with an effective date of October 1, 2009. These regulations, among other things, impose additional limitations on the ability of physicians to refer patients to medical facilities in which the physician has an ownership interest for treatment. Among other things, the regulations provide that leases of equipment between physician owners that may refer patients and hospitals must be on a fixed rate, rather than a per use, basis. Physician owned entities have increasingly become involved in the acquisition of medical technologies, including the CyberKnife system. In many cases, these entities enter into arrangements with hospitals that bill Medicare for the furnishing of medical services, and the physician owners are among the physicians who refer patients to the entity for services. The regulations limit these arrangements and could require the restructuring of existing arrangements between physicians owned entities and hospitals and may also discourage physicians from participating in the acquisition and ownership of medical technologies. As a result of the finalization of these regulations, some existing CyberKnife system operators may have to modify or restructure their corporate or organizational structures. In addition, certain existing customers that planned to open CyberKnife centers in the United States involving physician ownership could also have to restructure prior to the October 2009 effective date of the new regulations. It is possible that some of these entities may not be able to establish viable models for CyberKnife system operation and may therefore cancel their CyberKnife system purchase agreements. Accordingly, these new regulations could result in cancellations of existing CyberKnife system purchase agreements and could also reduce the attractiveness of medical technology 42 Table of Contents acquisitions, including CyberKnife system purchases, by physician-owned joint ventures or similar entities. As a result, these regulations could have an adverse impact on our product sales and therefore on our business and results of operations. Future legislative or policy initiatives directed at reducing costs could be introduced at either the federal or state level. We cannot predict the impact on our business of any legislation or regulations related to the healthcare system that may be enacted or adopted in the future. We are required to comply with federal and state "fraud and abuse" law, and if we are unable to comply with such laws, we could face substantial penalties and we could be excluded from government healthcare programs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are directly or indirectly through our customers, subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. These laws which directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business primarily include, but are not limited to, the following: •the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; •state law equivalents to the Anti-Kickback Statute, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items; •The Ethics in Patient Referral Act of 1989, also known as the Stark Law, which prohibits subject to certain exceptions, physician referrals of Medicare and Medicaid patients to an entity providing certain "designated health services" if the physician or an immediate family member has any financial relationship with the entity. The Stark Law also prohibits the entity receiving the referral from billing for any good or service furnished pursuant to an unlawful referral; •state law equivalents to the Stark Law, which may provide even broader restrictions and require greater disclosures than the federal law; and •the federal False Claims Act, which prohibits the knowing filing or causing the filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. The following arrangements with purchasers and their agents have been identified by the Office of the Inspection General of the Department of Health and Human Services as ones raising potential risk of violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute: •discount and free good arrangements that are not properly disclosed or accurately reported to federal healthcare programs; •product support services, including billing assistance, reimbursement consultation and other services specifically tied to support of the purchased product, offered in tandem with another service or program (such as reimbursement guarantee) that confers a benefit to the purchaser; •educational grants conditioned in whole or in part on the purchase of equipment, or otherwise inappropriately influenced by sales and marketing considerations; •research funding arrangements, particularly post-market research activities, that are linked directly or indirectly to the purchase of products, or otherwise inappropriately influenced by sales and marketing considerations; and •other offers of remuneration to purchasers that is expressly or impliedly related to a sale or sales volume, such as "prebates" and "upfront payment," other free or reduced-price goods or 43 Table of Contents services, and payments to cover costs of "converting" from a competitor's products, particularly where the selection criteria for such offers vary with the volume or value of business generated. We have various arrangements with physicians, hospitals and other entities which implicate these laws. For example, physicians who own our stock also provide medical advisory and other consulting and personal services. Similarly, we have a variety of different types of arrangements with our customers. For example, our placement and shared ownership program entail the provision of our CyberKnife system to our customers under a deferred payment program, where we generally receive the greater of a fixed minimum payment or a portion of the revenues of services. Included in the fee we charge for the placement and shared ownership program are a variety of services, including physician training, educational and marketing support, general reimbursement guidance and technical support, and, in the case of the placement program, certain services and upgrades are provided without additional charge based on procedure volume. In the past, we have also provided loans to our customers. We also provide research grants to customers to support customer studies related to, among other things, our CyberKnife systems. Certain of these arrangements do not meet Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbor protections, which may result in increased scrutiny by government authorities having responsibility for enforcing these laws. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including significant civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The impact of any such violations may lead to curtailment or restructuring of our operations, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of these laws are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. If enforcement action were to occur, our reputation and our business and financial condition may be harmed, even if we were to prevail or settle the action. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock is volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly, which could lead to losses for stockholders. The trading prices of the stock of newly public companies can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or out of proportion to the operating performance of these companies. Since we became a public company in February 2007, our stock price has been similarly volatile. These broad market fluctuations may continue and could harm our stock price. Any negative change in the public's perception of the prospects of companies that employ similar technology or sell into similar markets could also depress our stock price, regardless of our actual results. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: •regulatory developments related to manufacturing the CyberKnife system; •variations in our operating results; •changes in our operating results as a result of problems with our internal controls; 44 Table of Contents •announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; •recruitment or departure of key personnel; •changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analyst that elects to follow our common stock; •market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; •sales of large blocks of our common stock; and •changes in accounting principles or changes in interpretations of existing principles, which could affect our financial results. Substantial sales of our common stock by our stockholders, including sales pursuant to 10b5-1 plans, could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could reduce the prevailing market prices for our common stock. As of August 21, 2009, we have 56,698,022 shares of common stock outstanding. The lockup agreements related to our initial public offering expired with the opening of the securities markets on September 4, 2007, and as a result a large number of shares of our common stock became eligible for sale. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, including sales pursuant to 10b5-1 plans, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Our directors, executive officers and major stockholders own approximately 34.2% of our outstanding common stock as of August 21, 2009, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. As of August 21, 2009, our directors, executive officers, and current holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock, held, in the aggregate, approximately 34.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, a small number of stockholders have voting control and may be able to control the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company and will make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial in the opinion of our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial in the opinion of our stockholders. These provisions include: •authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; •establishing a classified board of directors, which could discourage a takeover attempt; •prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would limit the ability of less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; 45 Table of Contents •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent and requiring that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. Generally, Section 203 prohibits stockholders who, alone or together with their affiliates and associates, own more than 15% of the subject company from engaging in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder of such subject company without approval of the board or 662/3% of the independent stockholders. The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, prospects, contractual arrangements, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, a return on a stockholders' investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 