Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Current economic uncertainty could adversely affect our operations. Our business, financial condition and operating results may in the future be adversely affected by the economic conditions in the countries in which we operate or seek to operate. For example, the economy may impact the demand for elective medical procedures that we are targeting with our product candidates, or may impact the pricing that we may set for our products, if approved. Accordingly, the impact of the economy on commercial opportunities, such as our anticipated product launch in the United States for Augment, remains uncertain. In addition, if the current equity and credit markets do not continue to improve, or if they deteriorate further, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, more dilutive, or completely unavailable to us. We believe our existing cash and investments, which include approximately $45.0 million in net proceeds from our public stock offering in 2010, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements at least through the second half of 2012. However, a second economic downturn or an increase in our anticipated expenses could require us to seek additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price, and could require us to delay or abandon product development or commercialization plans, or plans to acquire additional technology. There is a risk that one or more of our suppliers, clinical investigators, consultants and other partners may encounter difficulties, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. The current conditions may also adversely affect our potential customers, including patients, medical professionals and their practices, hospitals and other health care providers. These conditions may also impact the overall amount spent on healthcare generally. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of our new technology and increased price competition. Our product candidates are in various stages of development and may not be developed or commercialized successfully. Our product candidates are based on technologies that have not been used previously in the manner and combination we propose and must compete with more established treatments currently accepted as the standards of care. Market acceptance of our products will largely depend on our ability to demonstrate their relative safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and ease of use. We are subject to the risk that: • the FDA, Health Canada or any other foreign regulatory authority finds some or all of our product candidates ineffective or unsafe or that benefits of a product candidate do not outweigh risks associated with it; • we do not receive necessary regulatory approvals in the United States, Canada, or elsewhere; • we are unable to get some or all of our product candidates to market in the United States, Canada or elsewhere in a timely manner; • we are not able to produce our product or product candidates in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; • our products undergo post-market evaluations resulting in marketing restrictions or withdrawal of regulatory approval of our products; • the patient and physician community does not accept our product or product candidates; and • we are unable to establish effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to facilitate the commercialization of our product candidates once they receive regulatory approval. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, our product development programs may be curtailed, redirected, eliminated or delayed at any time for many reasons, including: • adverse or ambiguous results; • undesirable side effects that delay or extend the trials; • inability to locate, recruit, qualify and retain a sufficient number of clinical investigators or patients for our trials; • regulatory delays or other regulatory actions, including changes in FDA decisions, Health Canada or other foreign regulatory authority, policies or procedures that make prior applicable FDA precedents less reliable as future predictors; • failure to satisfy one or more requirements or restrictions imposed by the FDA, Health Canada or other foreign regulatory authority as a basis for approving the initiation of a clinical study; • difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of the particular product candidate or any other components needed for our pre-clinical testing or clinical trials; • difficulties in obtaining the necessary regulatory support from our raw materials suppliers to enable us to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market our product or product candidates; or • re-evaluation of our clinical development strategy. We cannot predict whether the commercialization of Augment in Canada or the anticipated approval and subsequent commercialization of Augment in the United States will be successful, or whether we will successfully develop and commercialize any of our product candidates. If we fail to do so, we will not be able to generate substantial revenue, which would have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current product candidates are all based on the same protein, rhPDGF-BB. If one of our product candidates, or one of another company’s products or product candidates containing rhPDGF-BB or a similar growth factor, reveals safety or fundamental efficacy issues in clinical use or in clinical trials, then the development path for all our other current product candidates may be adversely impacted. The development of each of our product candidates is based on our understanding of how the protein rhPDGF-BB contributes to the repair of bone and soft tissue. Soft tissue includes muscles, tendons and ligaments that connect, support or surround the bones and organs of the body. While there are important differences in each of our product candidates in terms of its purpose, each product candidate focuses on accelerating the repair of musculoskeletal tissue and relies on the ability of rhPDGF-BB to stimulate the body’s natural healing processes. Since we are developing our product candidates in parallel, if one product candidate experiences negative clinical trial results or is found to be ineffective, it may impact the development path or future development of the other product candidates. If we find that one product candidate is unsafe, there may be an adverse effect on the development of our other product candidates, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If a product or product candidate developed by another company contains the same protein rhPDGF-BB, or a similar growth factor, as our product candidates, and its product or product candidate reveal safety or fundamental efficacy issues, then the development of our product candidates may be impacted as well, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Likewise, investor perception concerning a potentially adverse impact on our product candidates may cause our stock price to decline or may result in stock price volatility. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we fail to meet our obligations under our existing license agreements or fail to enter into new license agreements, our business may be materially adversely impacted. Our rights to the development, use and marketing of our product candidates are governed by a series of development and licensing agreements. These agreements provide us with rights to certain intellectual property created by the other party, which allow us to develop and commercialize our product and product candidates. As part of these agreements, during the term of the agreements we are required to make payments and comply with other obligations as we progress through product development and commercialization. If we fail to make these payments or satisfy other obligations for any reason, these agreements could be terminated by the other party, thereby possibly limiting our ability to market our product or limiting our ability to maintain exclusivity with respect to our product or product candidates. Furthermore, if a dispute arises regarding our obligations under these agreements, our business may be materially adversely impacted. Disputes may arise regarding the scope of our rights under any of these agreements. Additionally, the other parties under these agreements might breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to prevent infringement of a licensed patent by third parties. Loss of any of these agreements for any reason could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may need additional licenses to intellectual property owned by third parties in order to commercialize new products. If we cannot obtain these additional licenses, we may not be able to develop or commercialize these future products. Our rights to use technologies licensed to us by third parties are not entirely within our control, and we may not be able to produce our product and product candidates without these technologies. We depend upon a limited number of specialty suppliers of raw materials. Our ability to manufacture our product candidates depends on a limited number of specialty suppliers of raw materials. In particular, we depend upon Novartis to supply us with sufficient quantities of rhPDGF-BB for commercial production and clinical development activities and to meet the commercial demand for our product. We are obligated to purchase minimum specified quantities of rhPDGF-BB. Our agreement with Novartis may be terminated under certain circumstances. We have established certain relationships with §-TCP suppliers and obtain matrix materials from Kensey Nash and Integra. We are also continuing to evaluate §-TCP products and other matrices from other potential suppliers for use in orthopedic and sports medicine applications. There is a risk that we will not be able to secure adequate sources of rhPDGF-BB, §-TCP, or other matrix materials to meet our clinical and commercial needs for our products and product candidates. The failure of a supplier to continue to provide us with these materials at a price or quality acceptable to us, or at all, would impede our ability to manufacture Augment for the Canadian market and our product candidates. Moreover, our failure to maintain strategic reserve supplies of each significant single-sourced material used to manufacture Augment and the other product candidates that we are developing may negatively impact our development and commercialization activities. If our specialty suppliers cannot perform as agreed, we may not be able to replace them in a timely manner or on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all, and the production of our product and product candidates would be interrupted or cancelled, resulting in lost revenue and delays in or terminations of clinical trials and additional costs. We will be required to obtain regulatory clearance from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities before we can use different suppliers or components. If we have to switch to replacement suppliers, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of Augment in Canada and our product candidates could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay completion of our clinical trials, regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of any approved products. We and our suppliers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to various matters, including safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, advertising and promotional materials relating to medical devices are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission in specific instances. 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS We and our suppliers may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements, our failure or the failure of our manufacturers to comply with these requirements, or the adoption of new requirements could delay the development of our product candidates or regulatory approval of our product candidates or successful commercialization of any approved products, resulting in additional losses to us. We may be unable to establish or enter into the necessary business relationships and agreements with other companies who provide a component critical to the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We rely heavily upon arrangements with third-parties for intellectual property, raw materials, manufacturing assistance, regulatory assistance and other assistance necessary to develop and market Augment in Canada and our other product candidates. Our strategy includes continuing to develop business relationships with other biotechnology companies to assist in the commercialization efforts for our product candidates. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate business relationships, which may be complex and time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be able to enter into any such business relationships or agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If that were to happen, we may have to curtail the development or delay the commercialization of our product candidates. We currently do not have an alternative source of rhPDGF-BB. If we are not able to obtain rhPDGF-BB from Novartis, we may not be able to meet our supply obligations to Luitpold for rhPDGF-BB after our current inventory is depleted. Based on our current forecasts for our rhPDGF-BB needs, our planned clinical study programs for our product candidates and our anticipated pre-clinical studies, and sales forecasts of Augment, the rhPDGF-BB in our inventory, in addition to our minimum purchase commitments of rhPDGF-BB in 2011, should meet our needs for approximately the next 12 to 18 months. Under the terms of our supply agreement, Novartis is required to support our efforts to establish our continued production of rhPDGF-BB should it terminate the agreement; however, establishing a manufacturing process to replace Novartis’ may take multiple years and a significant financial investment to complete, if at all, and there is no assurance we would be successful in that effort. We also may not be able to manufacture any product candidates that contain rhPDGF-BB, including our lead product candidate, Augment, after our current inventory is depleted. We have limited manufacturing capabilities and manufacturing personnel, and if our manufacturing facilities are unable to provide an adequate supply of products, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We are moving forward with plans to occupy a new warehouse and distribution facility in the same complex as our headquarters in Franklin, Tennessee. We also intend to move certain steps of the later stages of the manufacturing process of our orthopedic and sports medicine product and product candidates into that facility, including final formulation, filling the vials that will be packaged in the finished kits, and assembling the kits. The building shell was completed in late 2009, and we expect the build out of the warehouse and distribution facility will begin in 2011. In order to qualify the facility as a GMP manufacturing facility, the build out must be complete, the utility systems, process and testing equipment must be installed and qualified, regulatory filings must be assembled and filed, and regulatory agency inspections must be passed prior to receiving approval. We anticipate that the manufacturing facility will be approved for commercial operations within two years of our starting the manufacturing build out. There can be no assurance, however, that the FDA will approve the manufacturing facility. Currently we are utilizing at least four contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for Augment (for our Canadian commercial product and for our clinical study kits). We are using at least three contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for our Augment Injectable clinical study kits. We are using at least three contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for our Augment Rotator Cuff clinical study kits. If there were a disruption to the new manufacturing facility or those of our contract manufacturers, we would have no other means of manufacturing our product and product candidates until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at the new facility or develop alternative manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to produce sufficient quantities of our product for meeting sales targets in Canada (or targets in the United States 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS if the FDA approves Augment) or produce sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in our current and planned clinical trials, or if our manufacturing process yields substandard products, then our product development efforts could be delayed and/or our sales and commercialization efforts could be adversely impacted. We have limited resources, facilities and experience to commercially manufacture our product and product candidates. In order to produce our product and product candidates in the quantities that we anticipate will be required to meet future market demand for any one or more approved products, we will need to complete qualification of the commercial scale production process at our contract facilities and at our in-house facility. There are technical challenges to developing and qualifying commercial-scale manufacturing operations. Further, building a new facility will require the investment of substantial additional funds as well as hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. We may not successfully complete the process qualification activities in a timely manner. This could strain our existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Furthermore, if we fail to manage our growth effectively we may not be able to produce our product and product candidates in sufficient quantities to meet the future requirements of the products. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of Augment or any product candidate, our revenues, business and financial prospects will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if the in-house production process is not efficient or produces products that do not meet quality and other standards, our future gross margins may decline. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. Although we are in the process of planning for a future sales network to represent Augment if approved in the United States, we currently do not have a dedicated sales force and have limited experience in the sales, marketing and distribution of regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products or drug products. In order to commercialize our product candidates, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with a third party to perform these functions. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. As a result of any arrangements we may enter into with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues could be lower than if we directly marketed and sold Augment in Canada or any other product candidate that we may develop. Furthermore, as a result of our Canadian logistical support agreement with Joint Solutions, our Australian distribution agreement with Surgical Specialties, or other marketing, sales or distribution arrangements we may enter into with other companies, any revenues received will depend on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. Some of our future distributors may have products or product candidates that compete with ours, and they may have an incentive not to devote sufficient efforts to marketing our products. If our relationships with Joint Solutions, Surgical Specialties or future distributors do not progress as anticipated, or if their sales and marketing strategies fail to generate sales of our products in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The orthopedic product industries are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are safer and more effective than any products that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products in the field of biologics. We face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions in the United States and abroad. Many of our principal competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with, or mergers with or acquisitions by, large and established companies or through the development of novel products and technologies. 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our competitors may: • develop and patent processes or products earlier than us; • obtain regulatory approvals for competing products more rapidly than us; or • develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or product and product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. The industry in which we operate has undergone, and we expect it to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made. Our competitors may develop and commercialize medical devices, regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products, biologic products or pharmaceutical products that are safer or more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. For example, we are aware of companies that are developing various other technologies for treating orthopedic injuries and disease, which could make our product candidates obsolete. We also compete with our competitors in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, in establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. If our product and product candidates do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, they may not, and Augment in Canada may not, gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payers, patients and the medical community. Market acceptance will depend on our ability to demonstrate the benefits of our approved products in terms of safety, efficacy, convenience, ease of administration and cost effectiveness. In addition, we believe market acceptance depends on the effectiveness of our marketing strategy, the pricing of our approved products and the reimbursement policies of government and third party payers. Physicians may not prescribe our approved products for a variety of reasons and patients may determine for any reason that our product is not useful to them. If any of our approved products fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. In Canada, market acceptance is also dependent upon the acceptance of our product by individual hospital “product evaluation committees,” which act as the gatekeepers at the hospital purchasing level. These committees look at the potential impact of a new product on patient care and on the budget in the specific therapeutic category related to that product. This process can take several months. We are currently working through a recently hired Canadian national sales manager, in addition to a logistical support agreement with a Canadian distributor, to progress Augment through the appropriate committees at the key accounts that we believe present the best opportunities for the product. There can be no assurance that any Canadian product evaluation committee will approve Augment in a timely manner, if at all. If product evaluation committees refuse to approve the use of Augment at their hospital, we may be unable to meet projected Augment sales targets for Canada, and our ability to generate revenue from Canadian sales will be materially and adversely affected. The loss of our key management and scientific personnel may hinder our ability to execute our business plan. As a small company with 95 employees as of December 31, 2010, our success depends on the continuing contributions of our management team and scientific personnel and on maintaining relationships with the network of medical and academic centers that conduct our clinical trials. We depend on the services of our key scientific employees and the principal members of our management staff. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We face intense competition in our hiring efforts from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from universities and nonprofit research organizations, and we may have to pay higher salaries to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of one or more of these individuals, or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could substantially impair our ability to implement our business plan. 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS We face an inherent risk of liability in the event that the use or misuse of Augment in Canada or our product candidates results in personal injury or death. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products may expose us to product liability claims which could result in financial losses. Our clinical and commercial product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources and adversely impact or eliminate the prospects for commercialization of the product candidate, or sale of the product, which is the subject of any such claim. Off-label use of our product may occur. While we do not promote any off-label use, such off-label uses of products are common and the FDA does not regulate a physician’s choice of treatment. Off-label use or misuse of any product for which we obtain approval may subject us to additional liability which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are sued in a product liability action, we could be forced to pay substantial damages and the attention of our management team may be diverted from operating our business. We currently manufacture investigational regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product candidates and an approved Canadian commercial regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product. These product candidates and the commercial product are implanted in patients during surgery or injected into patients at the treatment site. In addition, we are developing additional similar products for additional surgical indications, and a drug product candidate for administering to patients. As a result, we may be subject to a product liability lawsuit. In particular, the market for spine products has a history of product liability litigation. Under past agreements with our former distributor for GEM 21S and agreements with certain suppliers and distributors, we indemnify these parties from certain product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us and/or a party that we have indemnified, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future. In addition, we would have to pay any amount awarded by a court in excess of policy limits. We maintain product liability insurance in the annual aggregate amount of up to $20.0 million, although our insurance policies have various exclusions. Thus, we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no insurance coverage, in which case we may be liable for the entire amount of any award. Even in the absence of a claim, our insurance rates may rise in the future to a point where we may decide not to carry this insurance. A meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim would be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from our core business. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we cannot protect our intellectual property, our ability to market Augment in Canada and our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates may be severely limited. Our success will depend in part on our ability to maintain and enforce patent protection for the therapeutic uses of rhPDGF-BB. Without patent protection, other companies could offer substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizable discovery, development and licensing costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of approved products would then be diminished. We rely on our intellectual property to provide freedom to operate and to exclude others from developing rhPDGF for the treatment of general bone defects and bone defects associated with advanced periodontal disease, fractures and other indications. We currently own two unexpired U.S. patents covering certain unique aspects of our product and product candidates. Other patents that covered our product and product candidates have expired. We do not believe, however, that such patent expirations have significantly affected our intellectual property position. 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS If any patent or other right which we own is challenged, a court may determine that the patent or right is invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity or enforceability of a patent is upheld by a court, the court may not prevent alleged infringement on the grounds that the activity is not covered by the patent claims. Any litigation to enforce our rights to use our patents or to defend against allegations that we infringe third-party rights, would be costly and time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. We may be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. In addition, our patent applications and patents may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions typically are not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases ever, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. Some of our competitors and others manufacture and sell products containing some of the components of GEM 21S and Augment, namely rhPDGF-BB and §-TCP. Certain intellectual property covering our use of rhPDGF-BB is owned and licensed to us by ZymoGenetics. ZymoGenetics has licensed rhPDGF-BB to other third parties for technical uses and indications that differ from ours. §-TCP has been used in various products for over 20 years, and we are not aware of any intellectual property covering §-TCP that our products would infringe. Although we believe that the patents and patent applications, including those that we own and/or license, provide a competitive advantage, the patent positions of biopharmaceutical and device companies are highly complex and uncertain. The combination product and medical device industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. Furthermore, as the number of entrants into our market increases, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us grows. Although we have not received notice of any claims, and are not aware that our product candidates infringe other parties’ patents and proprietary rights, our product candidates and methods may be covered by U.S. patents held by our competitors. Any claim relating to infringement of patents that is asserted against us may be costly and time-consuming to defend, would divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and may require us to pay substantial damages. If a successful infringement claim is asserted against us, we may be unable to commercialize some of our product candidates unless we are able to obtain a license, or may have to cease some of our business operations, which could severely harm our business. Consequently, our success will depend in part on our not infringing patents issued to others, including our competitors and potential competitors, as well as our ability to enforce our patent rights. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation, in-licensing opportunities and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach. In addition, these agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information or prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to the information, which may not be resolved in our favor. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements, or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. In the future, we may collaborate with other entities on research, development and commercialization activities. Disputes may arise about inventorship and corresponding rights in know-how and inventions resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by us and our collaborators, licensors and 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS consultants. In addition, other parties may circumvent any proprietary protection that we do have. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our proprietary position. Our success also depends on our ability to operate and commercialize our product and product candidates without infringing the patents or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that we or our suppliers are infringing their patents or are misappropriating their proprietary information. If there is a successful claim against us or our suppliers for infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may be required to, among other things: • pay substantial damages; • stop using our technologies; • stop certain research and development efforts; • develop non-infringing products or methods; or • obtain one or more licenses from third parties. A license required under any such patents or proprietary rights may not be available to us, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we or our suppliers are sued for infringement, we could encounter substantial delays in, or be prohibited from, developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates or prohibited from continuing the commercialization of Augment in Canada, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent our employees are involved in research areas that are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that these employees may have used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims, which could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, even if we are successful in defending these claims. Delays encountered during the FDA approval process could shorten the patent protection period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize technologies or could allow others to come to market with similar technologies before us. Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive governmental regulation including the requirement of FDA approval or clearance before our product candidates may be marketed. Both before and after approval or clearance of our product candidates, we, our product candidates, our suppliers, our contract manufacturers and our contract testing laboratories are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: • warning letters; • fines and other monetary penalties; • unanticipated expenditures; • delays in the FDA’s, Health Canada’s or other foreign regulatory authorities’ approving or clearing, or the refusal of any regulatory authority to approve or clear, any product candidate; • product recall or seizure; • interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials; 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS • operating restrictions; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecutions. Our product candidates require FDA authorization by means of an approval or clearance prior to marketing in the United States. Some of our product candidates, including Augment and Augment Injectable, are regulated as combination products. For a combination product, the FDA must determine which center or centers within the FDA will review the product candidate and under what legal authority the product candidate will be reviewed. The review of combination products is often more complex and more time consuming than the review of a product candidate under the jurisdiction of only one center within the FDA. For the current orthopedic indications, Augment and Augment Injectable are being reviewed by medical device authorities at the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, with participation by the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. Augment and Augment Injectable require an approved PMA before they can be marketed in the United States. We previously submitted a three-part modular PMA seeking approval of Augment which, after we complied with a request from the FDA for additional information, was accepted by the FDA for review and filed. There can be no assurance, however, that the review of our PMA by the FDA will not be delayed further, or that the additional data we submitted to the FDA will be sufficient for it to approve our PMA, or that the FDA will not require more data or place additional requirements on us before it will approve our PMA. If the FDA’s review of our Augment PMA is delayed, or if the FDA ultimately denies our Augment PMA, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We previously filed an IDE application with the FDA seeking approval to initiate a pivotal trial evaluating the safety and effectiveness of Augment Injectable as a substitute for autograft in hindfoot fusion procedures (“Augment Injectable IDE”). In January 2011, the FDA conditionally approved the initiation of enrollment in our North American pivotal trial, and we expect to initiate patient enrollment in the United States in the first quarter of 2011. We may not be able to address the conditions the FDA has placed on the Augment Injectable IDE approval, or we may be required to revise this trial in a way that limits our ability to pool data from the trial with the ongoing Canadian Augment Injectable trial or our previous Augment pivotal study. If we are unable to address the FDA’s conditions, we may be unable to complete the trial in a timely manner or the FDA may not accept the study as sufficient support for marketing approval, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA may select a different center and/or different legal authority for our other product candidates, in which case the path to regulatory approval would be different and could be more lengthy and costly. For example, certain of our other product candidates may be reviewed by the FDA as drug products, which would require an approved new drug application (“NDA”) before they can be marketed. In response to a request for designation (“RFD”) we filed with the FDA for a product candidate designed to treat rotator cuff injuries, the FDA concluded that the rotator cuff product candidate should be reviewed as a drug, and not as a device. Although we continue to seek reclassification of our rotator cuff product candidate, there can be no assurance that the FDA will classify the product as anything other than a drug. The process of obtaining FDA approval of a PMA or NDA is lengthy, expensive, and uncertain, and there can be no assurance that our regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product candidates regulated by the FDA as medical devices, or any other product candidates, will be approved in a timely fashion, or at all. If the FDA does not approve or clear our product candidates timely, or at all, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition to the approval and clearance requirements, other numerous and pervasive regulatory requirements apply, both before and after approval or clearance, to us, our product and product candidates, and our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and contract laboratories. These include requirements related to: • testing; • manufacturing; • quality control; • labeling; • advertising; • promotion; • distribution; • export; • reporting to the FDA certain adverse experiences associated with use of the product; and • obtaining additional approvals or clearances for certain modifications to the products or their labeling or claims. We also are subject to inspection by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements, as are our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and contract testing laboratories, and there can be no assurance that the FDA will not identify compliance issues that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. As part of our Augment PMA review and approval process, we anticipate that the FDA will conduct a pre-market inspection of our headquarters and of our suppliers and subcontractors prior to approval of our PMA. If the FDA identifies compliance issues during these inspections, then approval of our PMA could be significantly delayed or even denied. We may be required to make modifications to our manufacturing operations in response to these inspections which may require significant resources and may have material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA’s requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our product candidates, and our suppliers, contract manufacturers and contract laboratories. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future and such laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. International sales of our product and any of our product candidates that we commercialize are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country in which the products are sold. Accordingly, the introduction of our product candidates in markets outside the United States will be subject to regulatory approvals in those jurisdictions. The regulatory review process varies from country to country and differs from the U.S. requirements. Many countries also impose product standards, packaging and labeling requirements and import restrictions on medical devices and drugs. We may also be required to perform additional pre-clinical or clinical studies even if the FDA approval has been obtained. In addition, each country has its own tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. The approval by foreign government authorities is unpredictable and uncertain and can be expensive. Our ability to market our approved products could be substantially limited due to delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, the necessary approvals or clearances, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In Canada, the manufacture, distribution and use of medical devices, drugs and equipment is regulated by a variety of industry-specific statutes and regulations. Medical products sold in Canada are regulated by the Canadian Food and Drugs Act. Even though a drug or device may be approved for use in another jurisdiction, it may not be sold in Canada until approved by the national regulatory agency, Health Canada. Although in 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS May 2006 we received marketing approval from Health Canada to market GEM 21S in Canada, and in November 2009 we announced that we received approval from Health Canada to market Augment in Canada, we will need to present data from additional clinical trials to obtain approval for our other product candidates. In 2009 we filed an Investigational Testing Authorization (“Augment Injectable ITA”) application with Health Canada seeking approval to initiate a pivotal study to assess the safety and efficacy of Augment Injectable as a substitute for autograft in foot and ankle fusion procedures. In October 2009, Health Canada approved the Augment Injectable ITA and we initiated patient enrollment in Canada. Although the Augment Injectable ITA was approved by Health Canada, we may need to revise our clinical trial or present additional data from other clinical trials to obtain approval for Augment Injectable in Canada. We ultimately may not obtain the approvals necessary to market our product candidates in Canada, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The European Medicines Agency (“EMA”) previously determined that GEMESIS would be reviewed as a medicinal (i.e., a drug) product, and not as a medical device product, which is how the product was reviewed in the United States and Canada. In November 2010, however, our EU notified Body, BSi Group (“BSi”), confirmed their acceptance of the classification of GEMESIS, Augment and Augment Injectable as Class III medical devices under the European Medical Device Directives. BSi’s classification determination was based in part on recent changes to the European Medical Device Directives that were made after EMA’s previous determination. We will submit to BSi applications for CE Marks for GEMESIS, Augment, and Augment Injectable. A CE Mark is the approval by a European regulatory body, and the presence of a CE Mark is required before a medical device can be marketed in any country in the EU. We expect that the applications for GEMESIS and Augment will be submitted by the end of the first quarter 2011. There can be no assurance that the EMA will agree with BSi’s classification of these products. If the EMA continues to take the position that GEMESIS should be reviewed as a medicinal combination product and/or determines that Augment and/or Augment Injectable should also be reviewed as medicinal combination products, we may face delays due to further discussions on classifications and/or the need to convert the submissions into drug applications (MAA’s), and our right to continue to seek EU approval of GEMESIS could be terminated together with our right to receive a $10.0 million milestone payment from Luitpold upon approval of GEMESIS. Even if the EMA does not challenge BSi’s classification of GEMESIS, if we are unable to gain EU regulatory approval for GEMESIS by May 12, 2012, we will be unable to earn the $10.0 million milestone payment from Luitpold. In addition, our other product candidates may encounter similar classification issues, and there can be no assurances that we will obtain EU approval for our product candidates. In Australia, the manufacture, distribution and use of medical devices, drugs and equipment is regulated by the Therapeutic Goods Act. Even though a drug or device may be approved for use in another jurisdiction, it may not be sold in Australia until approved by the national regulatory agency, the Therapeutic Goods Administration. In February 2010, we filed an application of Conformity Assessment with the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (“TGA”) for Augment. This application seeks approval to market Augment in Australia as an alternative to autograft in the treatment of foot and ankle fusions. The filing utilized the technical and clinical data that were provided to Health Canada in the recent DLA and to the FDA in the recent filing of the PMA for Augment in the United States. Such data alone, however, may not be sufficient and we may need to conduct additional clinical trials in Australia to obtain approval for Augment or our other product candidates. We ultimately may not obtain the approvals necessary to market our products in Australia, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA or its Advisory Committee may determine that the results of our clinical trials are insufficient for regulatory approval for our product candidates. We will only receive regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or the applicable foreign regulatory agency, in well designed and conducted clinical trials, that the product candidate is safe and effective. If we are unable to demonstrate that a product candidate will be safe and effective in advanced clinical trials involving larger numbers of patients, we will be unable to submit the PMA, NDA or other application necessary to receive regulatory approval to commercialize the product candidate. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. We face risks that: 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the product candidate may not prove to be safe or effective; • the product candidate’s benefits may not outweigh its risks; • the results from more advanced clinical trials may not confirm the positive results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may interpret data from pre-clinical and clinical testing in different ways than we interpret them; and • the FDA or other regulatory agencies may require additional or expanded trials. We discuss with and obtain guidance from regulatory authorities on certain of our clinical development activities. These discussions are not binding obligations on the part of regulatory authorities. Under certain circumstances, regulatory authorities may revise or retract previous guidance during the course of our clinical activities or after the completion of our clinical trials. The FDA may also disqualify a clinical trial in whole or in part from consideration in support of approval of a potential product for commercial sale or otherwise deny approval of that product. Even if we obtain successful clinical safety and efficacy data, we may be required to conduct additional, expensive trials to obtain regulatory approval. Prior to regulatory approval, the FDA may elect to obtain advice from outside experts regarding scientific issues and/or marketing applications under FDA review. These outside experts are convened by an FDA Advisory Committee to form an advisory panel. The advisory panel will report to the FDA and may make recommendations or make certain determinations regarding the reasonable assurance of a product’s safety and effectiveness or the benefit/risk profile of a product. The views of the advisory panel may differ from those of the FDA. Augment is tentatively scheduled to be reviewed by the FDA’s Orthopedic and Rehabilitation Devices Panel (the “panel”) on May 12, 2011, and we expect the vote of the panel to the FDA on Augment to be an important element in the FDA’s review of our PMA for Augment. If the panel determines that Augment is not safe or effective, or determines that benefits of Augment do not outweigh risks associated with Augment or makes any other negative determinations with respect to Augment, the FDA may chose not to approve our PMA for Augment. Even if the panel votes in favor of Augment, the FDA may still deny our PMA and either elect not to adopt the panel’s determinations, or identify an issue not addressed by the panel as a basis for its denial. We have only limited experience in regulatory affairs, and some of our products may be based on new technologies. These factors may affect our ability or the time we require to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We have only limited experience in filing and prosecuting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals for medical devices and drug products. Moreover, some of the products that are likely to result from our product development, licensing and acquisition programs may be based on new technologies that have not been extensively tested in humans. The regulatory requirements governing these types of product candidates may be less well defined or more rigorous than for conventional products. As a result, we may experience a longer regulatory process in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals of any products that we develop, license or acquire. The adoption of healthcare reform in the United States may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively known as the “PPACA”) became federal law in the United States. This law represents comprehensive health care reform. The PPACA includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law imposes a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of medical devices beginning in 2013. The PPACA also includes numerous provisions that limit Medicare spending through reductions in various fee schedule payments and by instituting more sweeping payment reforms, such as bundled payments for episodes of care and the establishment of “accountable care organizations” under which hospitals and physicians will be able to share savings that result from cost control efforts. Many of these provisions will be implemented through the regulatory process, and policy details have not yet been finalized. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS predict the impact that these federal and state healthcare reforms will have on us. However, if any one or more of our products are approved for sale in the United States, the PPACA and other reforms may lower reimbursements for the approved product, reduce medical procedure volumes relating to the approved product, impact demand for the product or the prices at which we may sell the product, and increase our cost of doing business. The impact of the PPACA and other reforms may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reforms in the healthcare industry and the uncertainty associated with pharmaceutical and medical device pricing, reimbursement and related matters could adversely affect the marketing, pricing and demand for our products, if approved. Increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in the United States. Both private and government entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. In addition to the PPACA, numerous proposals that would result in changes to the U.S. healthcare system have been introduced or proposed in the U.S. Congress and in certain state legislatures within the United States, including reductions in the pricing of prescription products and changes in the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products. For example, in 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 became federal law in the United States. Although we cannot predict the full effect of the implementation of this legislation on our business, the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers and other managed care organizations, may result in additional government reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may make some prescription drugs more affordable but may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. We believe that legislation that reduces reimbursement for our product candidates could adversely impact how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our products, if approved. This may materially and adversely impact our business by reducing our ability to generate revenue, raise capital, obtain additional licensees and market our products, if approved. In addition, we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of medical devices and pharmaceutical products, which may adversely impact product sales, upon approval, if at all. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse and false claims laws and regulations. If we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face substantial penalties. If we obtain FDA approval for any of our product candidates and begin commercializing those products in the United States, our operations may be directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the federal False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending, or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The term “remuneration” is not defined in the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including for example, gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash, waivers of payment, ownership interests and providing anything at less than its fair market value. The reach of the Anti-Kickback Statute was also broadened by PPACA, which, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the applicable criminal healthcare fraud statutes contained within 42 U.S.C. §1320a-7b, effective March 23, 2010. Pursuant to the statutory amendment, a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act (discussed below) or the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes penalties against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute is broad, and despite a series of narrow safe harbors, prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and do not contain identical safe harbors. The federal False Claims Act imposes liability on any person who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program. The “qui tam” provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring civil actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In addition, various states have enacted false claims laws analogous to the False Claims Act. Many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payer and not merely a federal healthcare program. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties of $5,500 to $11,000 for each separate false claim. In addition, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created several new federal crimes, including health care fraud, and false statements relating to health care matters. The health care fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private third-party payers. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under any of these or other fraud and abuse laws, or the impact of such actions. Moreover, to the extent that our products will be sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations. If we are found to have violated any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare reimbursement programs and the curtailment or restructuring or our operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of operations. If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our approved products by third party payers, there may be no commercially viable markets for our approved products or the markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third party payers affect the market for our approved products. The efficacy, safety, performance and cost-effectiveness of our product and product candidates and of any competing products will determine the availability and level of reimbursement. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored healthcare and private insurance. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to produce clinical data, which may involve one or more clinical trials, that compares the cost-effectiveness of our approved products to other available therapies. We may not obtain international reimbursement or pricing approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement or pricing approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our approved products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third party payers may adversely affect the demand for our future approved products currently under development and limit our ability to sell our approved products on a profitable basis. In addition, third party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and services. If reimbursement for any approved product is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of the approved products would be impaired and our future revenues, if any, would be adversely affected. 54 TABLE OF CONTENTS Patients may discontinue their participation in our clinical trials, which may negatively impact the results of these studies and extend the timeline for completion of our development programs. Clinical trials for our product candidates require sufficient patient enrollment. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely or cost-effective manner. Patients enrolled in our clinical studies may discontinue their participation at any time during the study as a result of a number of factors, including withdrawing their consent or experiencing adverse clinical events, which may or may not be judged related to our product candidates under evaluation. In addition, the time required to complete clinical trials is dependent upon, among other factors, the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • the nature of the clinical protocol requirements; • the availability of other treatments or marketed therapies (whether approved or experimental); • our ability to recruit and manage clinical centers and associated trials; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; and • the patient eligibility criteria for the study. If a large number of patients in any one of our studies discontinue their participation in the study, the results from that study may not be positive or may not support a filing for regulatory approval of our product candidates, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product quality or performance issues may be discovered through ongoing regulation by the FDA and by comparable international agencies, as well as through our internal standard quality process. The medical device industry is subject to substantial regulation by the FDA and by comparable international agencies. In addition to requiring clearance or approval to market new or improved devices, we are subject to ongoing regulation as a device manufacturer. Governmental regulations cover many aspects of our operations, including quality systems, marketing and device reporting. As a result, we continually collect and analyze information about product quality and product performance through field observations, customer feedback and other quality metrics. Any product quality or performance issues that are discovered during our information collection and analysis efforts in connection with our regulatory compliance may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The use of hazardous materials in our operations may subject us to environmental claims or liability. We intend to conduct research and development and some future manufacturing operations in our Franklin, Tennessee facility. Our research and development processes will involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive compounds. We will conduct experiments that are common in the biotechnology industry, in which we may use small quantities of chemical hazards, including those that are corrosive, toxic and flammable, and trace amounts of radioactive materials. The risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials cannot be eliminated. We do not maintain a separate insurance policy for these types of risks. If there is an accident or environmental discharge or contamination, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We received orphan drug designation for rhPDGF-BB treatment of osteochondritis dissecans, but there can be no assurance that the product will be able to obtain orphan drug market exclusivity. The FDA has granted orphan drug designation for rhPDGF-BB to be used in conjunction with autograft and/or commercially available osteochondral allograft for the treatment of osteochondritis dissecans (“OCD”) of the knee, elbow or ankle. Orphan drug status may be designated for a drug that has the potential to treat a 55 TABLE OF CONTENTS “rare disease or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals within the United States. Orphan drug designation does not convey an advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the review and approval process. If a product which has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, meaning that the FDA may not approve any other application to market the same drug for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for a period of seven years. There can be no assurance that a product candidate that receives orphan drug designation will receive orphan drug marketing exclusivity. More than one drug can have orphan designation for the same indication. If the FDA grants orphan designation to more than one drug candidate for the same orphan indication, and if one of those other drugs is approved before our product candidate is approved for that indication, we would not receive orphan exclusivity and would be blocked for seven years from having our product candidate approved for that indication. In addition, neither orphan drug designation nor orphan drug exclusivity prevents competitors from developing or marketing different drugs for that indication. We may seek to develop additional products that incorporate drugs that have received orphan drug designations for specific indications. In each case, there can be no assurance that our product candidate will be the first to be approved by the FDA for a given indication or be granted orphan drug exclusivity. In each case, if our product candidate is not the first to be approved for a given indication, and another drug receives orphan drug exclusivity, we may be unable to access the target market in the United States, which would have a material adverse effect on our company, our results of operations and our financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We have a history of losses and we expect to continue to incur losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have invested and continue to invest a significant portion of our time and resources in developing and testing our product candidates. As a result of our significant research and development, clinical development, regulatory compliance and general and administrative expenses, we expect that our operating losses may continue for the next few years as we continue to incur significant expenses for clinical trials. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $127.5 million. We have ongoing pivotal clinical studies for the use of Augment and Augment Injectable for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions, in addition to a pilot clinical trial to assess the safety and clinical utility of Augment Rotator Cuff for the repair of large rotator cuff tears. In January 2008, we sold to Luitpold our remaining orofacial therapeutic business, and granted Luitpold the rights to the downstream formulation, fill, finish, manufacturing and kitting of GEM 21S. This transaction has enabled us to focus our expertise and our future development efforts on our orthopedic, spine and sports medicine product candidates. This transaction leaves us without an FDA approved product currently in commercialization in the United States. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. At December 31, 2010, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards totaling $96.5 million available to reduce our future federal income tax liabilities. Our ability to use these net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our future federal income tax liabilities may be subject to annual limitations. In connection with any future offering, we may realize a “more than fifty percent change in ownership” which could further limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards accumulated to date to reduce future taxable income and tax liabilities. Additionally, because U.S. tax laws limit the time during which net operating loss carryforwards may be applied against future taxable income and tax liabilities, we may not be able to take advantage of our net operating loss for federal income tax purposes. The inability to take advantage of all or part of our accumulated net operating loss may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 56 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may need to raise additional capital in the future. If we are unable to successfully raise additional capital in the future, our product development could be limited and our long term viability may be threatened; however, if we raise additional capital, your percentage ownership as a stockholder could decrease and constraints could be placed on the operation of our business. We have experienced negative operating cash flows since our inception and have funded our operations primarily from proceeds received from sales of our stock and the licensing and sale of our orofacial therapeutic business. We believe that the December 31, 2010 balance of our cash and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements at least through the second half of 2012. We may seek to obtain additional funds at any time in the future through equity or debt financings, or strategic alliances with third parties, either alone or in combination with equity financings. We may seek such additional funds regardless of the extent to which funds are raised in a public offering as identified in our shelf registration statement described below. In 2009, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC registering the offer and sale of up to $150.0 million of certain securities which has been declared effective. In 2010, under the shelf registration statement, we raised net proceeds of approximately $45.0 million in a public offering of common stock. Although we currently have no plans to do so, under the shelf registration statement, we may from time to time, in one or more series, separately or together, sell additional shares of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities or warrants to purchase our common stock or any combination of such securities in an amount equal to slightly more than $100.0 million. There can be no assurance that we will successfully raise a sufficient amount of capital in any future public offerings to fund operations through profitability. Potential financings may result in substantial dilution to the holders of our common stock or require contractual or other restrictions on our operations or on alternatives that may be available to us in considering strategic transactions, dividends or liquidation preferences, debt service and/or revenue sharing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. Any such required financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us and the failure to procure such required financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A variety of factors could impact our need to raise additional capital, the timing of any required financings and the amount of such financings. Factors that may cause our future capital requirements to be greater than anticipated or could accelerate our need for funds include, without limitation: • unforeseen developments during our pre-clinical activities and clinical trials; • delays in the timing of receipt of required regulatory approvals; • unanticipated expenditures in research and development or manufacturing activities; • delayed market acceptance of our product or product candidates, if approved; • unanticipated expenditures in the acquisition and defense of intellectual property rights; • the failure to develop strategic alliances for the marketing of our product or product candidates, if approved; • additional inventory builds to adequately support the launch of new products; • unforeseen changes in healthcare reimbursement for procedures using our product or product candidates, if approved; • inability to train a sufficient number of surgeons to create demand for our product or product candidates, if approved; • lack of financial resources to adequately support our operations; 57 TABLE OF CONTENTS • difficulties in maintaining commercial scale manufacturing capacity and capability; • unforeseen problems with our third-party manufacturers and service providers or with our specialty suppliers of certain raw materials; • unanticipated difficulties in operating in international markets; • unanticipated financial resources needed to respond to technological changes and increased competition; • unforeseen problems in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to market our product or product candidates, if approved; • enactment of new legislation or administrative regulations; • the application to our business of new court decisions and regulatory interpretations; • claims that might be brought in excess of our insurance coverage; • the failure to comply with regulatory guidelines; • unforeseen cost overruns associated with build out of our new manufacturing facility that we have leased; and • the uncertainty in industry demand and patient wellness behavior as businesses and individuals are impacted by the current economic uncertainty. In addition, we may seek to expand our operations and product line through acquisitions or joint ventures. Any acquisition or joint venture would likely increase our capital requirements, and could distract management’s attention from our current product development programs or the commercialization of Augment, or could require us to divert operational resources. If adequate financing is not available, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate our operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our business, operating results and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting. This report, which is included in this annual report, contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not our internal controls are effective. This annual report contains a statement that our independent auditors have issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. In 2007, we began to document and evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significant costs, and the commitment of time and operational resources. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent auditors are unable to express an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, then the market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer. 58 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will be highly volatile. The current, active and liquid trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any securities analysts will initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our common stock. The trading prices of the securities of medical technology and biotechnology companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include, among other things: • whether we receive FDA approval to market any of our product candidates in the United States or similar regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions; • whether we successfully commercialize Augment in Canada or any other approved product in the future; • developments relating to patents, proprietary rights and potential infringement; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial products; • reimbursement policies of various governmental and third party payers; • public concern over the safety and efficacy of GEM 21S, Augment, Augment Injectable, Augment Rotator Cuff or any of our product candidates; • changes in estimates of our revenue and operating results; • variances in our revenue or operating results from forecasts or projections; • recommendations of securities analysts regarding investment in our stock; • our ability to maintain and/or raise sufficient capital to fund our operations until we are able to commercialize a product candidate and become profitable; and • market conditions in our industry and the current economic uncertainty as a whole. If our future quarterly or annual operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, then the price of our common stock will likely decline. In addition, share price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals or milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we expect that we will publicly announce the anticipated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, our stock price may decline and the commercialization of our product and product candidates may be delayed. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock may drop significantly if our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. All of the shares sold in our May 2006 initial public offering, our February 2007 secondary offering, our June 2009 rights offering, and our July 2010 public offering are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, except for shares purchased by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We expect that we also will be required to register any securities sold in future private financings. In addition, all of the common stock issued prior to our initial public offering is freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless owned by our affiliates. Shares held by our affiliates may also be tradable under Rule 144, subject to the volume restrictions 59 TABLE OF CONTENTS of that rule. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2010, holders of approximately 2,816,309 shares of common stock may have piggyback registration rights with respect to their shares in connection with future offerings. Those registration rights will expire upon the earlier of the transfer of those shares by the holder of the rights or the fifth anniversary of our May 2006 initial public offering. Sales by stockholders of substantial amounts of our shares, including sales by Novo A/S or InterWest Partners, or the perception that these sales may occur in the future, could affect materially and adversely the market price of our common stock. At December 31, 2010, there were options issued and outstanding to purchase 2,615,688 shares of our common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $10.59. Also at December 31, 2010, there were 2,137,777 options available for future issuance of options under our stock option plans. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates maintain the ability to substantially influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. As of December 31, 2010, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned shares representing approximately 31.4% of our capital stock. This total includes 1,830,253 shares (6.6% of our capital stock) owned by InterWest Partners, X, L.P. and its affiliates. Chris Ehrlich, one of our directors, is an affiliate of InterWest Partners. This total also includes 4,720,065 shares (16.9% of our capital stock) owned by Novo A/S. Thorkil K. Christensen, one of our directors, is the Chief Financial Officer of Novo A/S. Accordingly, our current executive officers, directors and their affiliates have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions, as well as management and affairs. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control of us at a premium price if these stockholders oppose it, even if it would benefit our other stockholders. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us. Provisions of our corporate charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. 60 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 