ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and the results of its operations are subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of all known material risks and uncertainties that we have identified that may affect our business and future financial performance. Our business depends on highly changeable consumer preferences and toy trends. Even our successful products typically have a relatively short period of high demand followed by a decrease in demand as the products mature. For example, net sales of the classic LeapPad platforms in our U.S. consumer business peaked in 2002 and are no longer material to our overall sales. We operate in an industry where consumer preferences can change drastically from year to year. We depend on our ability to correctly identify changing consumer sentiments well in advance and supply new products that respond to such changes on a timely basis. Consumer preferences, and particularly children’s preferences, are continually changing and are difficult to predict. Since our products typically have a long development cycle, in some cases lasting over a year, it can be difficult to predict correctly changing consumer preferences and technology, entertainment and education trends. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop new technologies and products and enhance existing technologies and product lines, as well as successfully integrate third-party technology with our own. We continually introduce new variations on our mobile learning and reading platforms and new learning toy products. In 2009, we introduced a number of new products and services to the market. These new products represented a substantial portion of our 2009 and 2010 sales. Furthermore, in 2010, we introduced several new learning toys and new variations on our mobile learning and reading platforms. We cannot be sure that any new products or services will be widely accepted and purchased by consumers or to what extent demand for our preexisting products will continue. Failure by consumers to accept our new products or declines in sales of our existing products would adversely affect our results of operations. Some of the key products launched in recent years, including our 2010 release of the Leapster Explorer mobile learning and play system, have a high price point compared to other children’s products. Consumers may be especially resistant in the current economic climate to purchasing higher-priced products and may elect to defer or omit these discretionary purchases. This could limit or delay sales of our new products and services and create pressure to lower our prices. 11 Table of Contents We rely on three retailers that together accounted for the vast majority of the United States segment’s gross sales each year, and our dependence upon a small group of retailers may increase. Our top three retailers in 2010 were Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us and Target, which accounted for the vast majority of our gross sales. Sales invoiced to these three retailers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 65% of the U.S. segment’s gross sales in both 2010 and 2009. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on a small number of large retailers for the majority of our sales. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our retailers. As a result, agreements with respect to pricing, shelf space, cooperative advertising or special promotions, among other things, are subject to periodic negotiation with each retailer. Retailers are continually re-evaluating shelf space allocations to optimize store traffic and financial returns. This process has placed increasing pressure on the toy aisle, which in some instances has been or may, in the future, be reduced in size. In addition, retailers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering one-time purchase orders. If any of these retailers reduce their purchases from us, change the terms on which we conduct business with them or experience a downturn in their business or constraint on their credit and ability to pay their invoices as they become due, our business and operating results could be harmed. Our growing strategic focus on web-based products and customer relationship management may not yield the returns we expect, and may limit the adoption of our products in some international markets. We continue to build a marketing and sales model that relies more on linking directly to consumers through the Internet and we cannot be sure whether we will realize our expected return on investment. Many of our current and planned key products, such as the Tag reading system, Leapster2, Leapster Explorer and some of our recent learning toys, are built as web-enabled products designed to be connected to a computer that has Internet access in order to access content and features. As we focus on web-enabled products and consumer relationship management, any resistance by parents to buying children’s products requiring installation of software and connecting the product to a computer could have a more pronounced effect on our business. Also, launch or adoption of web-enabled products may be limited in regions where broadband Internet access is not widespread, such as in some international markets. If parents fail to sign up for the Learning Path or use it at lower rates than we expect, or choose not to permit us to send them marketing email, or if our web efforts prove ineffective at generating repeat customers, our investment in building, maintaining and improving our web-based services may not yield the return on our investment that we anticipate. See also “System failures in our web-based services or store could harm our business.” Weakness in the current economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our sales, and a slow recovery could prevent us from achieving our financial goals in 2011 and beyond. We rely heavily on sales to retailers during the third and fourth quarters of each year to achieve our overall sales goals. Also, we rely on strong consumer sales in these periods to prevent build-up of retail inventory. Any such inventory build-up can have a continuing negative effect on our sales in the first and second quarters of the next year. The recent global economic crisis and the drastic deterioration of consumer sales in late 2008 led to a severe drop-off in our sales beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continued through the third quarter of 2009. Although our net sales increased 14% in 2010, as compared to 2009, our first, second and third quarter net sales in 2010 increased 42%, 26% and 23%, respectively compared to 2009, while our fourth quarter net sales in 2010 increase only 1% compared to 2009. Further deterioration of the current economic environment would materially adversely impact our business and our financial results for 2011. Many economists predict that the current economic recovery may be weak and subject to set-backs. To drive sales in 2010, we provided more pricing reductions, promotional incentives and other concessions in our sales terms than we have in the past, and we may need to continue offering such concessions in 2011 to drive sales. Consumers may have become used to paying lower prices for some of our products and efforts to restore normal pricing may hamper sales. Weak economic conditions in the United States or abroad, lower consumer 12 Table of Contents spending (especially on discretionary items), lower consumer confidence, continued high or higher levels of unemployment, higher inflation or even deflation, higher commodity prices, such as the price of oil, political conditions, natural disaster, labor strikes or other factors could negatively impact our sales and would adversely affect our financial results for 2011 and beyond. Our business is highly seasonal, and our annual operating results depend, in large part, on sales relating to the brief holiday season. Sales of consumer electronics and toy products in the retail channel are highly seasonal, causing a substantial majority of our sales to retailers to occur during the third and fourth quarters. Even though we achieved net income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred losses in the first and second quarters of 2010. Approximately 76%, 79% and 72% of our total net sales occurred during the second half of fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The percentage of total net sales in the second half of the year may increase as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through just-in-time inventory management systems, particularly as they remain cautious about over-ordering products prior to the holiday season. Generally, retailers time their orders so that suppliers will fill the orders closer to the time of purchase by consumers, thereby reducing their need to maintain larger on-hand inventories throughout the year to meet demand. If a decline in the economy, or other factors, lead to a decline of net sales in the third or fourth quarter in particular, it can have a disproportionate negative impact on our results for the year. In addition, soft consumer sales in the holiday season can lead to ongoing weakness in sales to retailers well into the following year. After a strong start to the 2010 holiday season, many retailers, including our online store, leapfrog.com, experienced a decrease in demand late in the quarter relative to expectations. If this decrease in demand leads to ongoing weakness into 2011, it could adversely affect our financial results. Failure to predict accurately and respond appropriately to retailer and consumer demand on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations, or any disruption of consumer buying habits during this key period (as demonstrated during and after the recent economic crisis) would harm our business and operating results. The unexpected loss of members of our executive management team or other key employees could adversely affect our business. We had a number of changes to our executive management team during 2010. Transition associated with such changes has required, and may continue to require, significant management attention and consumption of time and resources, potentially having an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we cannot provide any assurances that we will retain our management and other key employees. Competition for high caliber personnel is strong in our area and industry. The unexpected loss of services of members of our executive management team or other key employees could have an adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to retain key personnel, then it may be difficult for us to maintain a competitive position within our industry or implement our strategic priorities. We depend on our suppliers for our components and raw materials, and our production or operating margins would be harmed if these suppliers are not able to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available. Some of the components used to make our products, including our ASICs, currently come from single suppliers. Additionally, the demand for some components such as liquid crystal displays, integrated circuits or other electronic components is volatile, which may lead to shortages. If our suppliers are unable to meet our demand for our components and raw materials and if we are unable to obtain an alternative source or if the price available from our current suppliers or an alternative source is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed and our operating results would suffer. In addition, as we do not have long-term agreements with our major suppliers and cannot guarantee their stability, they may stop manufacturing our components at any time, with little or no notice. For example, in 2009, we learned that one of our sole-source suppliers of ASICs for one of our mobile 13 Table of Contents learning platforms was winding down its operations, which required us to negotiate a license for the technology used in the ASIC and arrange to purchase it directly from the semiconductor fabrication plant. Also, in 2010, a sole-source supplier of an ASIC for one of our reading systems informed us that it was having financial difficulties, which required us to negotiate the purchase of certain intangible assets from the supplier in order to continue production of the ASIC. We may not always be successful in negotiating rights to technologies or products that threaten to become unavailable or the rights may be available only at a cost that is prohibitive. In addition, if we are required to use alternative sources, we may be required to redesign some aspects of the affected products, which may involve delays and additional expense. If there are any significant interruptions in the supply of components, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our finished products or we may be unable to manufacture them at targeted cost levels, and our business and operating results could be harmed. We rely on a limited number of manufacturers, virtually all of which are located in China, to produce our finished products, and our reputation and operating results could be harmed if they fail to produce quality products in a timely and cost-effective manner and in sufficient quantities or if our manufacturing process is otherwise disrupted. We outsource substantially all of our manufacturing to several Asian manufacturers, most of which manufacture our products at facilities in the Guangdong province in the southeastern region of China. These manufacturers are selected based on their technical and production capabilities and are matched to particular products to achieve cost and quality efficiencies. We depend on these manufacturers to produce sufficient volumes of our finished products in a timely fashion, at satisfactory cost and quality levels and in accordance with our and our customers’ terms of engagement. We believe the recent economic downtown has caused manufacturers to scale back their output capacity to match demand. Accordingly, if we determine that we need to order larger quantities of our products to meet customer demand, we may encounter delays and shortfalls in shipments based on manufacturer capacity issues. Such delays could have a particularly significant impact on our business to the extent that retailers attempt to manage their inventory levels by delaying orders, which may lead to shorter lead times to match changes in consumer demand. In addition, the costs of using contract manufacturers are subject to increase, which has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our cost of sales. Since the fourth quarter of 2009, commodity and labor costs in China have increased due to a variety of factors, including tightening Chinese labor markets, delays in ramping up production of raw materials to meet growing demand for finished goods, and the recent revaluation of Chinese currency to permit it to rise in value versus the U.S. dollar, among other things, leading to increased prices for us with some of our contract manufacturers. Furthermore, in the recent past, there have been product quality and safety issues for other producers of toys and other companies that manufacture goods in China. In addition, the risk of political instability and civil unrest exists in China, which could temporarily or permanently damage our manufacturing operations located there. If our manufacturers fail or are unable to produce quality finished products on time, at expected cost targets and in sufficient quantities, or if any of our products are found to be tainted or otherwise raise health or safety concerns, our reputation and operating results would suffer. See also “Political developments, including trade relations, natural disasters, the threat or occurrence of armed hostilities, terrorism, labor strikes or public health issues could have a material adverse effect on our business.” below. If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, or on a timely basis, or if retail inventory levels are too high, our operating results will be adversely affected. The high degree of seasonality of our business places stringent demands on our inventory forecasting and production planning processes. This inventory management approach may be particularly challenging when combined with “just-in-time” inventory management systems increasingly used by retailers as they remain cautious about future inventory levels. See also “Our business is highly seasonal, and our annual operating results depend, in large part, on sales relating to the brief holiday season” above. If we fail to meet tight 14 Table of Contents shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our merchandise on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If our inventory forecasting and production planning processes result in our maintaining manufacturing inventory in excess of the levels demanded by our customers, as occurred in the fourth quarter of 2010, we could be required to record inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. If the inventory of our products held by retailers is too high, they may not place or may reduce orders for additional products, which would unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results. For example, the high inventory level at the end of 2008 adversely impacted our 2009 net sales, particularly during the first three quarter, which were 40% lower than the same period of 2008. Similarly, the high inventory level as of December 31, 2010 may adversely impact our net sales in the first several quarters in 2011. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our sales and market share could decline. We currently compete primarily in the learning toy and electronic learning aids category of the U.S. toy industry and, to some degree, in the overall U.S. and international toy industry. We believe we compete to some extent, and may increasingly compete in the future, with makers of popular game platforms, electronic entertainment devices and smart mobile devices. We also compete in the U.S. supplemental educational materials market. Each of these markets is very competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. Many of our direct, indirect and potential competitors have significantly longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to changes in consumer requirements or preferences or to new or emerging technologies, and may be able to use their economies of scale to produce products more cheaply. Further, with greater economies of scale and more distribution channels, they may be successful even if they sell at a lower margin. Our larger competitors may also be able to devote substantially greater resources, including personnel, spending and facilities to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively in our markets. Our intellectual property rights include licenses from third parties and may not prevent other companies from using our technologies or similar technologies to develop competing products, which could weaken our competitive position and harm our operating results. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technologies that are used in our learning platforms and related software. We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Among our rights are inbound licenses from third parties for content, such as characters, stories, illustrations and trade names, and for technologies we incorporate in our products including key technology used in our Tag and Tag Junior reading systems. Our continued use of these rights is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain these license rights and at reasonable rates. Any failure to do so could interrupt our supply chain and require us to modify our products or business plans. In addition, the contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter independent third-party development of similar technologies. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where we do not hold patents or trademarks or where the laws may not protect our intellectual property as fully as in the United States. Some of our products and product features have limited intellectual property protection, and, as a consequence, we may not have the legal right to prevent others from reverse engineering or otherwise copying and using these features in competitive products. In addition, monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is costly, and any dispute or other litigation, regardless of outcome, may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. However, if we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our rights could be diminished and our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. 15 Table of Contents Third parties have claimed, and may claim in the future, that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to incur significant litigation or licensing expenses or to stop selling some of our products or using some of our trademarks. In the course of our business, we periodically receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. For example, we recently settled a trademark suit related to our Tag reading system and, since April 2010, we have been subject to a patent suit relating to the same system. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. If we, our distributors or our manufacturers are adjudged to be infringing the intellectual property rights of any third party, we or they may be required to obtain a license to use those rights, which may not be obtainable on reasonable terms, if at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development and sale of some of our products or against the use of a trademark or copyright in the sale of some of our products. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all the liability that could be imposed. Any errors or defects contained in our products, or our failure to comply with applicable safety standards, could result in recalls, delayed shipments, rejection of our products and damage to our reputation, and could expose us to regulatory or other legal action. Our products may contain errors or defects that are discovered after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products by our retailers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims. Individuals could sustain injuries from our products, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from such injuries. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. Moreover, we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. Concerns about potential public harm and liability may involve involuntary recalls or lead us to voluntarily recall selected products. Recalls or post-manufacture repairs of our products could harm our reputation and our competitive position, increase our costs or reduce our net sales. Costs related to unexpected defects include the costs of writing down the value of our inventory of defective products and providing product replacement, as well as the cost of defending against litigation related to the defective products. Further, as a result of recent recalls and safety issues related to products of a number of manufacturers in the toy industry, some of our retailer customers have been increasing their testing requirements of the products we ship to them. These additional requirements may result in delayed or cancelled shipments, increased logistics and quality assurance costs, or both, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, recalls or post-manufacturing repairs by other companies in our industry could affect consumer behavior and cause reduced purchases of our products and increase our quality assurance costs in allaying consumer concerns. Privacy concerns about our web-connected products and related software and applications could harm our reputation and hinder adoption of these products. By using the Internet-based Learning Path application, information captured by our web-connected products about a child’s performance and activities will be transferred and stored on our website servers. Due to privacy, confidentiality and security concerns, parents may not want us to collect information about their child’s activities and performance and may not feel comfortable uploading and storing this information on our website servers. If these concerns prevent parents from accepting or adopting our connected products, the sales of our products and our business results could suffer and our plans to expand this portion of our business could be affected. In addition, if the confidentiality of such information stored on our website servers is compromised or breached by third parties, our reputation could be tarnished, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. 16 Table of Contents System failures in our web-based services or store could harm our business. The Internet-based aspects of our business have grown substantially in strategic importance to our overall business. Any failure to provide a positive user experience could have a negative impact on our reputation, sales and consumer relationships. If demand for accessing our websites exceeds the capacity we have planned to handle peak periods or if other technical issues arise when customers attempt to use these systems to purchase products or to access features or content for our web-connected products, then customers could be inconvenienced or become dissatisfied with our products. Any significant disruption to our website or internal computer systems or malfunctions related to transaction processing on our e-commerce store or content management systems could result in a loss of potential or existing customers and sales. This risk has become more acute as we rely increasingly on our web-based consumer relationship management efforts to drive sales and position our business. Any significant system failures in our web-based services or store could have a significant adverse effect on our sales and operating plan. Although our systems have been designed to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. Any unplanned disruption of our systems could result in adverse financial impact to our operations. Retailer liquidity problems could harm our liquidity and financial results. If retailers encounter liquidity problems due to weak sales or their inability to raise sufficient capital because of credit constraints, we may not be able to collect the accounts receivable we generate based on the orders we fulfill. In 2009 and 2010, some retailers did not pay us in a timely manner and others indicated that they would be unable to pay any vendors. If any of our retailers suspend or reduce payments to us or file for bankruptcy protection, the resulting bad debt expense we would incur would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In our balance sheet as of December 31, 2010, our accounts receivable balance was reduced by an estimated allowance for doubtful accounts of $0.8 million, which could increase if retailers continue to struggle or more bankruptcies were filed. In addition to collection risk, we may decide not to accept orders from troubled retailers, which would further reduce sales. In addition to harming our results of operations, an inability to collect on accounts receivable could create serious liquidity problems for us. We generally depend on our collections in the first and second quarters of each year to fund our operations for the rest of the year. If in 2011 or beyond we are unable to collect a material portion of our accounts receivable, and other sources of financing are not available on reasonable terms, we may be unable to execute our business plan or maintain operating levels. See “Our liquidity may be insufficient to meet the long-term or periodic needs of our business” below. Our liquidity may be insufficient to meet the long-term or periodic needs of our business. Global credit market fluctuations could increase the cost of capital or limit our ability to raise additional capital should we need it and unforeseen events could stress or exceed our current or future liquidity. In addition to cash received from the collection of accounts receivable, from time to time, we may fund our operations and strengthen our liquidity through borrowings under our line of credit. Our line of credit has numerous financial tests and covenants that affect the amount we can borrow, and includes various events of default that could impair our ability to access credit under the credit line. In addition, the line of credit terminates in August 2013 and we cannot be sure whether we will be able to renew it on similar terms or at all. If we are unable to borrow sufficient funds in a timely manner or at an acceptable cost, we may need to alter our business practices. For 17 Table of Contents example, we may be required to manufacture at levels that lag rather than anticipate future order levels, which could limit our ability to sell and ship our products as demand increases, delaying our ability to benefit from improvements in the retail sales environment. Our international business may not succeed and subjects us to risks associated with international operations. We derived approximately 20%, 19% and 21% of our net sales from markets outside the United States during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our efforts to increase sales for our products outside the United States may not be successful and may not achieve higher sales or gross margins or contribute to profitability. Our business is, and will increasingly be, subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: • developing successful products that appeal to the international markets; • difficulties managing and maintaining relationships with vendors, customers, distributors and other commercial partners; • greater difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • transportation delays and interruptions; • greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; • complications in complying with laws in varying jurisdictions and changes in governmental policies; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; • limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings; • public health problems, especially in locations where we manufacture or otherwise have operations; • natural disasters; and • political and economic instability, military conflicts and civil unrest. Sales to our international customers are transacted primarily in the country’s local currency. If foreign currency weakens compared to the U.S. dollar, our International segment sales results will suffer. Any difficulties with our international operations could harm our future sales and operating results. We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations that could impose additional costs or changes on the conduct of our business. We operate in a highly regulated environment with international, federal, state and local governmental entities regulating many aspects of our business, including products and the importation of products. Regulations with which we must comply include accounting standards, taxation requirements (including changes in applicable income tax rates, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), trade restrictions, regulations regarding financial matters, environmental regulations, privacy, advertising directed toward children, safety and other administrative and regulatory restrictions. Compliance with these and other laws and regulations could impose additional costs on the conduct of our business. For example, the “Safer Consumer Product Alternatives” draft regulations proposed by the California Department of Toxic Substances Control on June 23, 2010 as part of a California “Green Chemistry” initiative designed to reduce or eliminate the use of certain materials in consumer products, may impose additional costs on our business if enacted. In addition, numerous states have enacted, and many others are considering enacting, laws directed at manufacturers regarding recycling of electronic products. While we take steps that we believe are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no 18 Table of Contents assurance that we have achieved compliance or that we will be in compliance in the future. Failure to comply with the relevant regulations could result in monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in laws or regulations may lead to increased costs, changes in our effective tax rate, or the interruption of normal business operations that would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the CPSIA, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, regulation by the CPSC, and other similar federal, state and international rules and regulatory authorities, some of which have conflicting standards and requirements. Our products could be subject to involuntary recalls and other actions by these authorities. We may also have to write off inventory and allow our customers to return products they purchased from us. In addition, any failures to comply could lead to significant negative media attention and consumer dissatisfaction, which could harm our sales and lead to widespread rejection of our products, particularly since we rely so heavily on the integrity of our brand. If we were required to record impairment charges related to the value of our intangible assets, such charges would have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our intangible assets include the excess purchase price over the cost of net assets acquired, or goodwill, capitalized website development costs, patents, trademarks and licenses. Goodwill arose from our September 1997 acquisition of substantially all the assets and business of our predecessor, LeapFrog RBT, and our acquisition of substantially all the assets of Explore Technologies in July 1998. Total intangible assets are fully allocated to our U.S. business segment. Goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives are tested for impairment at least annually. In determining the existence of impairment, we consider changes in our strategy and in market conditions, which could result in adjustments to our recorded asset balances. Specifically, if the carrying values of our intangible assets are found to exceed their estimated fair values, we might be required to record impairment charges, which would decrease the carrying value of intangible assets and increase our net loss or reduce any net income. As of December 31, 2010, intangible assets, net, totaled $25.2 million, of which $19.5 million was attributable to goodwill. Political developments, including trade relations, natural disasters, the threat or occurrence of armed hostilities, terrorism, labor strikes or public health issues could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is international in scope. The deterioration of the political situation in a country in which we have significant sales or operations, or the breakdown of trade relations between the U.S. and a foreign country in which we have significant manufacturing facilities or other operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, a change in trade status for China could result in a substantial increase in the import duty of toys manufactured in China and imported into the United States. In addition , armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues, whether in the United States or abroad could cause damage and disruption to our company, our suppliers, our manufacturers, or our customers or could create political or economic instability, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Although it is impossible to predict the consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our product or create delay or inefficiencies in our supply chain by making it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products to our customers, or for our manufacturers to deliver products to us, or suppliers to provide component parts. Notably, our U.S. distribution centers, including our distribution center in Fontana, California, and our corporate headquarters are located in California near major earthquake faults that have experienced earthquakes in the past. In addition to the factors noted above, our existing earthquake insurance relating to our distribution center may be insufficient and does not cover any of our other operations. 19 Table of Contents One stockholder controls a majority of our voting power as well as the composition of our board of directors. Holders of our Class A common stock will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote. Our Class A common stock entitles its holders to one vote per share, and our Class B common stock entitles its holders to ten votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, Lawrence J. Ellison and entities controlled by him beneficially owned approximately 15.6 million shares of our Class B common stock and 0.2 million shares of our Class A common stock, which represents approximately 61.5% of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As a result, Mr. Ellison controls all stockholder voting power, including with respect to: • the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • any determinations with respect to mergers, other business combinations, or changes in control; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; • our financing activities; and • payment of dividends on our capital stock, subject to the limitations imposed by our credit facility. In addition, two of our directors, Philip B. Simon and Paul T. Marinelli, are President and Vice President, respectively, of Lawrence Investments, LLC, an entity also controlled by Mr. Ellison. As a result, as permitted by New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules for controlled companies, our Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are not composed entirely of independent directors. Mr. Ellison could have interests that diverge from those of our other stockholders. This control by Mr. Ellison could depress the market price of our Class A common stock; deter, delay or prevent a change in control of LeapFrog; or affect other significant corporate transactions that otherwise might be viewed as beneficial for other stockholders. Our stock price has been volatile over the past several years and could decline in the future, resulting in losses for our investors and harming the employee-retention and recruiting value of our equity compensation. All the factors discussed in this section or any other material announcements could affect our stock price. Speculation in the media and analyst communities, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock and market trends unrelated to our stock can cause the price of our stock to change. A significant drop in the price of our stock could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, adversely affecting our business. Our future success depends partly on the continued contribution of our key executives and technical, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel. Part of our compensation package includes stock and/or stock options. To the extent our stock performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees, potentially resulting in lost institutional knowledge and key talent. Changes in compensation packages or costs could impact our profitability and/or our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 