Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Recent negative developments in the financial industry, and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments during 2008 in the global credit and derivative markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing in 2009. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Global securities markets, and bank holding company stock prices in particular, have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. If these negative trends continue, our business operations and financial results may be negatively affected. We are subject to liquidity risk in our operations. Liquidity risk is the possibility of being unable, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances, to pay obligations as they come due, to capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or to pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit obligations to borrowers, mortgage originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of debt, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses, and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention, principal and interest payments on loans and investment securities, net cash provided from operations, and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, given the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting our market areas, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our success depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary market areas. If the communities in which FSGBank operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Unpredictable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and our financial performance. Economic recession over a prolonged period or other economic problems in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. Future adverse changes in the economies in our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, the banking industry in Tennessee and Georgia is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. As an example, our banking business in northern Georgia is highly dependent on the carpet industry, and, as a result, if the carpet industry or one of the large carpet employers in Dalton, Georgia should suffer a downturn in its business, our operating performance could be adversely affected. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. The market value of the real estate securing our loans as collateral has been adversely affected by the slowing economy and unfavorable changes in economic conditions in our market areas and could be further adversely affected in the future. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 75.1% of our loans receivable were secured by real estate. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by the adverse market and economic conditions, including the downturn in the real estate market, in our markets will adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Currently, we are experiencing such an economic downturn, and if it continues, our operations could be further adversely affected. Ongoing deterioration in the housing market and the homebuilding industry may lead to increased losses and further worsening of delinquencies and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There has been substantial industry concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to subprime mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. As of December 31, 2008, our non-performing assets had increased to $27.3 million, or 2.7%, of our loan portfolio plus other real estate owned. Furthermore, the housing and the residential mortgage markets recently have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including some of the markets in which we lend. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we are facing increased delinquencies and non-performing assets as these builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not know when the housing market will improve, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Additionally, the continued decline in the homebuilding industry has negatively affected the Dalton, Georgia economy, which is primarily based on the carpet industry. A continued decline may lead to additional unemployment, which may lead to increased delinquencies and nonperforming assets. If the value of real estate in our core market were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. With most of our loans concentrated along the Interstate corridors of eastern and middle Tennessee and northern Georgia, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of borrowers, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2008, approximately 75.1% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development, and construction loans for builders and developers. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $194.6 million, or 19.2%, of our total loan portfolio represented construction and land development loans. These land acquisition and development, and construction loans are considered more risky than other types of loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks, and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk that borrowers cannot obtain affordable financing, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. There can be no assurance that losses in our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Given the current environment, the non-performing loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio may increase substantially in 2009, and these non-performing loans could result in a material level of charge-offs, which will negatively impact our capital and earnings. Weakness in residential property values and mortgage loan markets could adversely affect us. Recent weakness in the secondary market for residential lending could have an adverse impact upon our profitability. Pricing may change, rapidly impacting the value of loans in our portfolio. This has been most pronounced in residential construction and development loans. The turmoil in the mortgage markets, combined with the ongoing correction in real estate markets, could result in further price reductions in single family home prices and lack of liquidity in refinancing markets. These factors could adversely impact the quality of our residential construction and residential mortgage portfolio in various ways, including creating discrepancies in value between the original appraisal and the value at time of sale, and by decreasing the value of the collateral for our mortgage loans. We also have a significant amount of loans on one-to-four family residential properties, which are secured principally by single-family residences. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size and geographically dispersed throughout our market area. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend to large degree on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions, and collateral values, and are therefore difficult to predict. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Additionally, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which the loans were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements sometimes require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. While we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, these steps might not be effective and might not lessen the risks associated with loans sold in the past. If repurchase demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. The amount of “other real estate owned” (OREO) may increase significantly, resulting in additional losses, and costs and expenses that will negatively affect our operations. At December 31, 2007, we had a total of $2.5 million of OREO, and at December 31, 2008, we had a total of $7.1 million of OREO, reflecting a $4.7 million increase, or 191.4%, from 2007 to 2008. This increase in OREO is due, among other things, to the continued deterioration of the residential real estate market and the tightening of the credit market. As the amount of OREO increases, our losses, and the costs and expenses to maintain the real estate likewise increase. Due to the on-going economic crisis, the amount of OREO may continue to increase throughout 2009. Any additional increase in losses, and maintenance costs and expenses due to OREO may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market of reduced real estate values and excess inventory, which may make the disposition of OREO properties more difficult, increase maintenance costs and expenses, and may reduce our ultimate realization from any OREO sales. Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. Declines in the U.S. economy and our local real estate markets contributed to our increasing provisions for loan losses during 2008, and may result in additional loan losses and loss provisions for 2009. These factors could result in further increases in loan loss provisions, and additional delinquencies, charge-offs, or both in future periods, any of which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations continue to decline, this could result in, among other things, further deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on our loan portfolio and additional increases to our allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, deterioration of the U.S. economy may adversely impact our banking business more generally. Economic declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for consumer or commercial credit and declining real estate and other asset values. Declining real estate and other asset values may reduce the ability of borrowers to use such equity to support borrowings. Delinquencies, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Additionally, our servicing costs, collection costs, and credit losses may also increase in periods of economic slowdown or recessions. Effects of the current real estate slowdown have not been limited to those directly involved in the real estate construction industry (such as builders and developers). Rather, it has impacted a number of related businesses such as building materials suppliers, equipment leasing firms, and real estate attorneys, among others, and the current recession has negatively impacted businesses of all types. All of these affected businesses have banking relationships, and when their businesses suffer from an economic slowdown or recession, the banking relationship suffers as well. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Changes in the interest rate environment could reduce our profitability. As a financial institution, our earnings significantly depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as investment securities and loans, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes in the Federal Reserve Boards’ fiscal and monetary policies, affects us more than non-financial institutions and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and total income. Our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. As a result, an increase or decrease in market interest rates could have material adverse effects on our net interest margin and results of operations. Since January 2008, in response to the dramatic deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit, and liquidity markets, the Federal Reserve has taken action on seven occasions to reduce interest rates by a total of 400 to 425 basis points, which has reduced our net interest income and will likely continue to reduce this income for the foreseeable future. Any reduction in our net interest income will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results, cash flows and, potentially, the price of our securities. Additionally, in 2009, we expect to have continued margin pressure given these historically low interest rates, along with elevated levels of non-performing assets. At December 31, 2008 we were in an asset-sensitive position, which generally means that changes in interest rates affect our interest earned on assets quicker than our interest paid for liabilities because the rates earned on our assets reset sooner than rates paid on our liabilities. Accordingly, we anticipate that interest rate decreases by the Federal Reserve throughout 2008 will continue to have a negative effect on our interest income over the short term until the interest rates paid on our liabilities reset. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. In addition, any significant increase in prevailing interest rates could adversely affect our mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could cause customers to request fewer refinancings and purchase money mortgage originations. As a community bank, we have different lending risks than larger banks. We provide services to our local communities. Our ability to diversify our economic risks is limited by our own local markets and economies. We lend primarily to individuals and to small to medium-sized businesses, which may expose us to greater lending risks than those of banks lending to larger, better-capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. We manage our credit exposure through careful monitoring of loan applicants and loan concentrations in particular industries, and through loan approval and review procedures. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses is an estimate based on experience, judgment and expectations regarding our borrowers, the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgment of our regulators. We cannot assure you that our loan loss reserves will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, profitability or financial condition. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our recent and rapid growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. In the future, we may not have the benefit of several recently favorable factors, such as a generally predictable 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements interest rate environment, a strong residential mortgage market or the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Negative publicity about financial institutions, generally, or about the Company or Bank, specifically, could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely impact its business operations and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from the actual or alleged conduct of financial institutions, generally, or the Company or Bank, specifically, in any number of activities, including leasing practices, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action, any of which could negatively affect our business operations or financial results. If we are unable to increase our share of deposits in our market, we may accept out of market brokered deposits, the costs of which may be higher than expected. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase our market share of deposits in our highly competitive service area. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to accept increased amounts of out of market brokered deposits. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $257.1 million in out of market deposits, including brokered deposits, which represented approximately 23.9% of our total deposits. At times, the cost of out of market and brokered deposits exceeds the cost of deposits in our local market. In addition, the cost of out of market brokered deposits can be volatile, and if we are unable to access these markets or if our costs related to out of market brokered deposits increases, our liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. Changes in monetary policies may have an adverse effect on our business. Credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board, affect our results of operations. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. The FDIC Deposit Insurance assessments that we are required to pay may materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings. As an insured depository institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. These assessment are required to ensure that FDIC deposit insurance reserve ratio is at least 1.15% of insured deposits. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, when the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The recent failures of several financial institutions have significantly increased the Deposit Insurance Fund’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. Beginning on January 1, 2009, there was a uniform seven basis points (annualized) increase to the assessments that banks pay for deposit insurance. The increased assessment rates range from 12 to 50 basis points (annualized) for the first quarter 2009 assessment, which will be owed on June 30, 2009. Beginning on April 1, 2009, the FDIC will modify the risk-based assessments to account for each institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and use of brokered deposits. Assessment rates will range from 7 to 77.5 basis points (annualized) starting with the second quarter 2009 assessments, which will be owed on September 30, 2009. In 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements addition, the FDIC has adopted an interim rule to impose an emergency special assessment of 20 basis points as of June 30, 2009, which will be owed on September 30, 2009. The FDIC may also impose additional emergency special assessments of up to 10 basis points thereafter if the reserve ratio is estimated to fall to a level that the FDIC believes would adequately affect public confidence or to a level that shall be close to zero or negative at the end of a calendar quarter. Sheila Bair, the chairman of the FDIC, has subsequently indicated that the FDIC may reduce the initial special assessment to 10 basis points. If the FDIC imposes additional emergency assessments, or otherwise further increases assessment rates, our earnings could be further adversely impacted. Our long-term business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Over the long-term, we intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. We cannot assure you we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or growth will be managed successfully. We face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. We continually seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions and may continue to engage in de novo branch expansion in the future. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners may negatively affect our business; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion may negatively affect our business; • we may not be able to finance an acquisition without diluting the interests of our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction may detract from their business productivity; • we may enter into new markets where we lack experience; • we may introduce new products and services into our business with which we have no prior experience; and • we may incur an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and experience adverse short-term effects on our results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, no assurance can be given that we will be able to integrate our operations after an acquisition without encountering difficulties including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of our respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Successful integration of our operations with those of another entity will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. If we have difficulties with the integration, we might not achieve the economic benefits we would expect to result from any particular acquisition or merger. In addition, we may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to such integration. Adverse market conditions and future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future to support our operations, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or could be dilutive to existing shareholders, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources following this offering will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. If we need to raise capital, there is no guarantee that we will be able to borrow funds or successfully raise capital at all or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not dilutive to existing shareholders. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. We face strong competition from larger, more established competitors. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary market area with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Our subsidiary is primarily regulated by the OCC. Our compliance with Federal Reserve Board and OCC regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to the capital requirements of our regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we may experience greater compliance costs. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. We make no assurances that we will pay any dividends in the future. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, regulatory restrictions, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when and if declared by our Board of Directors out of funds legally available for that purpose. As part of our consideration to pay cash dividends, we intend to retain adequate funds from future earnings to support the development and growth of our business. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by federal policies and regulations. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. Further, our principal source of funds to pay dividends is cash dividends that we receive from the Bank. In addition, because we have participated in the United States Department of the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program (TARP CPP), our ability to pay dividends on common stock is further limited. Specifically, we may not pay dividends on common stock unless all dividends have been paid on the securities issued to the Treasury under the TARP CPP. The TARP CPP also restricts our ability to increase the amount of dividends on common stock, which potentially limits your opportunity for gain on your investment. Tennessee law and our charter limit the ability of others to acquire us. Various anti-takeover protections for Tennessee corporations are set forth in the Tennessee Business Corporation Act, the Business Combination Act, the Control Share Acquisition Act, the Greenmail Act and the Investor Protection Act. Because our common stock is registered with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Business Combination Act automatically applies to us unless our shareholders adopt a charter or bylaw amendment which expressly excludes us from the anti-takeover provisions of the Business Combination Act two years prior to a proposed takeover. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of recommending such charter or bylaw amendment. These statutes have the general effect of discouraging, or rendering more difficult, unfriendly takeover or acquisition attempts. Such provisions would be beneficial to current management in an unfriendly takeover attempt but could have an adverse effect on shareholders who might wish to participate in such a transaction. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the teamwork and increased productivity fostered by our culture, which could harm our business. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters teamwork and increased productivity. As our organization grows and we are required to implement more complex organization management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success is, and is expected to remain, highly dependent on our executive officers, especially Rodger B. Holley, Lloyd (“Monty”) L. Montgomery III and William (“Chip”) L. Lusk, Jr. This is particularly true because, as a community bank, we depend on our management team’s ties to the community to generate business for us. Our rapid growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of any such person’s services may have an adverse effect upon us. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our ability to attract and retain the best key employees may be limited by the restrictions that we must place on the compensation of those employees due to our participation in the United States Department of the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program. Participants in the TARP CPP must set specified limits on the compensation to certain senior executive officers. The limitations, which include a prohibition on any “golden parachute” payments and a “clawback” of any bonus that was based on materially inaccurate financial data or other performance metric, could limit our ability to attract and retain the best executive officers because other competing employers may not be subject to these limitations. The United States Department of the Treasury, as a holder of our preferred stock, has rights that are senior to those of our common stockholders. We have supported our capital operations by issuing classes of preferred stock to the United States Department of the Treasury under the TARP CPP. On January 9, 2009, we issued preferred stock to the Treasury under the TARP CPP totaling $33 million. The preferred stock has dividend rights that are senior to our common stock; therefore, we must pay dividends on the preferred stock before we can pay any dividends on our common stock. In the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution, or liquidation, the Treasury must be satisfied before we can make any distributions to our common stockholders. Our agreement with the United States Department of the Treasury under the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program is subject to unilateral change by the Treasury, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Under the TARP CPP, the Treasury may unilaterally amend the terms of its agreement with us in order to comply with any changes in federal law. We cannot predict the effects of any of these changes and of the associated amendments. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 or other governmental actions may not stabilize the financial services industry. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), which was signed into law on October 3, 2008, is intended to alleviate the financial crisis affecting the U.S. banking system. A number of programs are being developed and implemented under EESA. The EESA may not have the intended effect, however, and as a result, the condition of the financial services industry could decline instead of improve. The failure of the EESA to improve the condition of the U.S. banking system could significantly adversely affect our access to funding or capital, the trading price of our stock, and other elements of our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition to EESA, a variety of legislative, regulatory, and other proposals have been discussed or may be introduced in an effort to address the financial crisis. Depending on the scope of such proposals, if they are adopted and applied to the Company, our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could, directly or indirectly, benefit or be adversely affected in a manner that could be material to our business. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances are discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit the use of properties that we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Our loan policies require certain due diligence of high risk industries and properties with the intention of lowering our risk of a non-performing loan and/or foreclosed property. Confidential customer information transmitted through the Bank’s online banking service is vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses, which could expose the Bank to litigation and adversely affect its reputation and ability to generate deposits. The Bank provides its customers with the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. The Bank’s network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, and other security problems. The Bank may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that the Bank’s activities or the activities of its clients involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose the Bank to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing clients to lose confidence in the Bank’s systems and could adversely affect its reputation and its ability to generate deposits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no written comments from the Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Act which remain unresolved. 