ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We have a history of significant operating losses and may not maintain profitability on an annual basis in the future. For the year ended December 26, 2009, we recorded a net loss of $86.6 million. As of December 26, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $377.4 million. We expect to continue to make significant expenditures related to the continued development of our business. These expenditures may include the addition of personnel related to the sales, marketing and research and development of our products and other costs related to the maintenance and expansion of our manufacturing facilities and research and development operations. We may therefore sustain significant operating losses and negative cash flows in the future. In addition, as a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We will have to sustain significant increased revenue and product gross margins to maintain profitability on an annual basis. Although we achieved profitability for the first time on an annual basis for the year ended December 27, 2008 and generated net income of $78.7 million, this amount included $87.4 million of gross profit deferred from prior periods, as described in the section titled, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Excluding the impact of this prior period amount, our results of operations for the year ended December 27, 2008 would have been a net loss of $8.7 million. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below investor or analyst expectations. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Over the past eight fiscal quarters, our revenue and operating income (loss), adjusted for 2008, for the reasons as described in the section titled, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, has ranged from $66.6 million to $95.5 million and from $4.8 million of operating income to $27.5 million of operating loss, respectively. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Fluctuations in our revenue can lead to even greater fluctuations in our operating results. Our budgeted expense levels are based, in large part, on our expectations of long-term future revenue and the development efforts associated with these future revenues. Given relatively fixed operating costs related to our personnel and facilities, particularly for our engineering personnel, any substantial adjustment to our expenses to account for lower levels of revenue will be difficult and may take time. Consequently, if our revenue does not meet projected levels in the short-term, our inventory levels and operating expenses would be high relative to revenue, resulting in additional operating losses. In addition to other risks discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and our operating results include: • fluctuations in demand, sales cycles and prices for products and services; • fluctuations in our product mix, including the mix of higher and lower margin products and significant mix changes resulting from new customer deployments; • reductions in customers’ budgets for optical communications purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; • order cancellations or reductions or delays in delivery schedules by our customers; • timeliness of our customers’ payments for their purchases; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of components we purchase for our products; • readiness of customer sites for installation of our products; 12 Table of Contents • the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors. In particular, if we are required to develop additional features for our product for a customer, we may be required to defer our revenue for such customer until we have developed and delivered such additional features; • any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including any new entrants, technological advances or substantial discounting of products; • availability of third party suppliers to provide contract engineering and installation services for us; • the timing of recognizing revenue in any given quarter, including the impact of recently announced revenue recognition standards and any future changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or new interpretations of existing accounting rules; and • general economic conditions in domestic and international markets. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may in the future provide to the market, the price of our common stock may decline substantially. Our gross margin may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and may be adversely affected by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our gross margin fluctuates from period to period and varies by customer and by product specification. Over the past eight fiscal quarters, our gross margins, adjusted for 2008, for the reasons as described in the section titled, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, have ranged from 29% to 46%. Our gross margins are likely to continue to fluctuate and will be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • the mix in any period of the customer’s purchasing our products and the mix of higher and lower margin products and services; • significant new customer deployments, often with a higher portion of lower or negative margin common equipment; • price discounts negotiated by our customers; • sales volume from each customer during the period; • the amount of equipment we sell or expect to sell for a loss in any given quarter; • increased price competition, including competition from low-cost producers in China; • charges for excess or obsolete inventory; • changes in the price or availability of components for our products; • changes in our manufacturing costs, including fluctuations in yields and production volumes; • introduction of new products, with initial sales at relatively small volumes and higher product costs; • increased warranty or repair costs; and • the period of time in which revenue is recognized. It is likely that the average unit prices of our products will decrease over time in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased negotiated sales discounts, new product introductions by us or our competitors or other factors. In addition, some of our customer contracts contain annual technology discounts that require us to decrease the sales price of our products to these customers. In response, we will need to reduce the cost of our products through manufacturing efficiencies, design improvements and cost reductions. If these efforts are not successful or if we are unable to reduce our costs to a greater extent than the reduction in the price of products, our revenue and gross margin will decline, causing our operating results to decline. Fluctuations in gross margin may make it difficult to manage our business and achieve or maintain profitability. 13 Table of Contents Aggressive business tactics by our competitors may harm our business. Increased competition in our markets has resulted in aggressive business tactics by our competitors, including: • aggressively pricing their products, including offering significant one-time discounts and guaranteed future price decreases; • selling at a discount used equipment or inventory that had previously written down or written off; • announcing competing products prior to market availability combined with extensive marketing efforts; • offering to repurchase our equipment from existing customers; • influencing customer requirements to emphasize different product capabilities, such as greater minimum bandwidth requirements or higher transport speeds (40Gbps and 100Gbps); • providing financing, marketing and advertising assistance to customers; and • asserting intellectual property rights. If we fail to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, or if our current or future competitors continue or expand aggressive business tactics, including those described above, demand for our products could decline, we could experience delays or cancellations of customer orders, or we could be required to reduce our prices or increase our expenses. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend upon continued growth of demand by consumers and businesses for additional network capacity. Our future success depends on factors such as the continued growth of the Internet and IP traffic and the continuing adoption of high capacity, revenue-generating services to increase the amount of data transmitted over communications networks and the growth of optical communications networks to meet the increased demand for bandwidth. If demand for such bandwidth does not continue, or slows down, the need for increased bandwidth across networks and the market for optical communications network products may not continue to grow. If this growth does not continue or slows down, our product sales would be negatively impacted. In addition, if general economic conditions weaken, this may cause our customers and potential customers to slow or delay their purchase decisions, which would have an adverse affect on our business and financial condition. Recent turmoil in the financial markets and the global recession has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our industry, business and gross margins. The U.S. and world economic markets are undergoing a period of slowdown or recession, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. Our business depends on the overall demand for additional bandwidth capacity and on the economic health and willingness of our customers and potential customers to make capital commitments to purchase our products and services. As a result of this slowdown, we may face new risks that we have not yet identified. In addition, a number of the risks associated with our business, which are disclosed in these risk factors, may increase in likelihood, magnitude or duration. If the conditions in the U.S. and world economic markets remain uncertain or continue to be volatile, or if they deteriorate further, our industry, business and gross margins may be adversely affected. As a result of this economic slowdown and the continued tightening of credit markets, our customers may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary financing for their purchases of our products. A lack of liquidity in the capital markets or the continued global recession may cause our customers to delay or cancel their purchases, increase the time they take to pay or default on their payment obligations, each of which would negatively affect our results. Continued weakness in the global economy could cause some of our customers to become illiquid, delay payments or adversely affect our collection on their accounts, which could result in a higher level of bad debt expense. In addition, currency fluctuations relating to the financial crisis could negatively affect our international customers’ ability or desire to purchase our products. 14 Table of Contents Challenging economic conditions have from time to time contributed, and are currently contributing, to slowdowns in the telecommunications industry in which we operate. This slowdown may result in: • reduced demand for our products as a result of constraints on capital spending by our customers, particularly service providers; • increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors, but also as a result of our customer’s or potential customer’s utilization of inventoried or underutilized products, which could put additional pressure on our near term gross profits; • risk of excess or obsolete inventories; • excess manufacturing capacity and higher associated overhead costs as a percentage of revenue; and • more limited ability to accurately forecast our business and future financial performance. The lack of liquidity and economic slowdown may adversely affect our suppliers or the terms on which we purchase products from these suppliers. It may also cause some of our suppliers to become illiquid. Any of these impacts could limit our ability to obtain components for our products from these suppliers and could adversely impact our supply chain or the delivery schedule to our customers. This also could require us to purchase more expensive components, or re-design our products, which could cause increases in the cost of our systems and delays in the manufacturing and delivery of our systems. Such events could harm our gross margins and harm our reputation and our customer relationships, either of which could harm our business and operating results. We have a limited operating history and limited history of selling our DTN Systems and ATN Systems, both of which make it difficult to predict our future operating results. We were incorporated in December 2000 and shipped our first DTN System in November 2004 and our first ATN System in August 2009. Our limited operating history gives very little basis upon which to evaluate our ability to accomplish our business objectives. In making an investment decision, you should evaluate our business in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in early stages of development, particularly companies in the rapidly changing optical communications market. We may not be successful in addressing these risks. It is difficult to accurately forecast our future revenue and plan expenses accordingly and, therefore, predict our future operating results. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive and dominated by large corporations, and we may not be able to compete effectively. Competition in the optical communications equipment market is intense, and we expect such competition to increase. A number of very large companies historically have dominated the optical communications network equipment industry. Our competitors include current wavelength division multiplexing suppliers, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Ciena Corporation, Cisco Systems, Ericsson, Fujitsu Limited, Huawei Technologies Co., NEC Corporation, Nokia-Siemens Networks, Tellabs and ZTE Corporation. In November 2009, Ciena Corporation announced that it had been selected as the successful bidder for substantially all of the optical networking and carrier Ethernet assets of Nortel Networks’ metro Ethernet networks business. Ciena has announced that it expects to close this transaction in the first quarter of 2010. Competition in these markets is based on price, commercial terms, functionality, manufacturing capability, pre-existing installation, services, existing business and customer relationships, scalability and the ability of products and breadth and quality of services to meet our customers’ immediate and future network requirements. Other companies have, or may in the future develop, products that are or could be competitive with our products. In particular, if a competitor develops a photonic integrated circuit with similar functionality, our business could be harmed. Recent mergers from our competitors and any future acquisitions or combinations between or among our competitors may adversely affect our competitive position by strengthening our competitors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition and technical, financial and marketing resources, greater manufacturing capacity and better established relationships with incumbent carriers and other potential customers than we have. Many of our competitors have more resources to develop or acquire, and more experience in developing or acquiring, new products and technologies and in creating market awareness for those products and technologies. In addition, many of our competitors have the financial resources to offer competitive products at aggressive pricing levels that could prevent us from competing effectively. Further, many of our competitors have built long-standing relationships with some of our prospective customers and have the ability to provide financing to customers and could, therefore, have an inherent advantage in selling products to those customers. 15 Table of Contents We also compete with low-cost producers in China that can increase pricing pressure on us and a number of smaller companies that provide competition for a specific product, customer segment or geographic market. These competitors often base their products on the latest available technologies. Due to the narrower focus of their efforts, these competitors may achieve commercial availability of their products more quickly than we can and may provide attractive alternatives to our customers. We are dependent on a small number of key customers for a significant portion of our revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from one or more of our key customers would reduce our revenue and harm our operating results. A relatively small number of customers account for a large percentage of our net revenue. In particular, for 2009, Level 3 Communications, or Level 3, accounted for approximately 17% of our revenue. Our business will be harmed if we do not generate as much revenue as we expect from our key customers, if we experience a loss of any of our key customers or if we suffer a substantial reduction in orders from these customers. Our business also would be harmed if we fail to maintain our competitive advantage with our key customers. We expect Level 3 to continue to be an important customer for us but to represent a less significant percentage of our revenue in 2010 than in prior years. On July 29, 2009, we were informed by Level 3 that they intend to use another DWDM vendor in their network. We believe that this vendor will be given a significant portion of Level 3’s new network deployments commencing in 2010 and will impact the revenue we will receive from Level 3 in the future. Our ability to continue to generate revenue from our key customers will depend on our ability to maintain strong relationships with these customers and introduce new products that are desirable to these customers at competitive prices, and we may not be successful doing so. Because, in most cases, our sales are made to these customers pursuant to standard purchase agreements rather than long-term purchase commitments, orders may be cancelled or reduced readily. In the event of a cancellation or reduction of an order, we may not have enough time to reduce operating expenses to minimize the effect of the lost revenue on our business. Our operating results will continue to depend on our ability to sell our products to our large customers. Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that result in increased cost of sales, decreased revenue and lower average selling prices and gross margins, all of which would harm our operating results. Substantial changes in the optical communications industry have occurred over the last few years. Many potential customers have confronted static or declining revenue. Many of our customers have substantial debt burdens, many have experienced financial distress, and some have gone out of business or have been acquired by other service providers or announced their withdrawal from segments of the business. Consolidation in the markets in which we compete has resulted in changes in the structure of the communications networking industry, with greater concentration of purchasing power in a small number of large service providers, cable operators and government agencies. In addition, it has resulted in a substantial reduction in the number of our potential customers. For example, service providers, such as Level 3, have acquired a number of other communications service providers, including one of our other customers. This increased concentration among our customer base may also lead to increased negotiating power for our customers and may require us to decrease our average selling prices. Further, many of our customers are large communications service providers that have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. Our customers have and may continue to seek advantageous pricing and other commercial terms and may require us to develop additional features in the products we sell to them. If we are required to develop additional features for our product for a customer, we may be required to defer our revenue for such a customer until we have developed and delivered such additional features. We have and may continue to be required to agree to unfavorable commercial terms with these customers, including reducing the average selling price of our products in response to these commercial requirements or competitive pricing pressures. To maintain acceptable operating results, we will need to comply with these commercial terms, develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continue to reduce our costs. 16 Table of Contents We expect the factors described above to continue to affect our business and operating results for an indeterminate period, in several ways, including: • overall capital expenditures by many of our customers or potential customers may be flat or reduced; • we will continue to have only limited ability to forecast the volume and product mix of our sales; • managing expenditures and inventory will be difficult in light of the uncertainties surrounding our business; and • increased competition will enable customers to insist on more favorable terms and conditions for sales, including product discounts, extended payment terms or financing assistance, as a condition of procuring their business. If we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices with increased sales volumes and reduced production costs, or if we fail to develop and introduce new products and enhancements on a timely basis, or if we disagree on our interpretation and compliance with the commercial terms of our customer agreements, our relationships with our customers and our operating results would be harmed. We are dependent on a single product, and the lack of continued market acceptance of our DTN System would harm our business. Although in 2009 we added the ATN System as part of our product offering, our DTN System accounts for substantially all of our revenue and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As a result, our business could be harmed by: • any decline in demand for our DTN System; • the failure of our existing DTN System to achieve continued market acceptance; • the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our DTN System; • technological innovations or new communications standards that our DTN System does not address; and • our inability to release enhanced versions of our DTN System on a timely basis. If we fail to expand sales of our DTN System into international markets or to sell our products to new types of customers, such as U.S. regional Bell operating companies and international postal, telephone and telegraph companies, our revenue will be harmed. We believe that, in order to grow our revenue and business and to build a large and diverse customer base, we must successfully sell our DTN System in international markets and to new types of customers, such as U.S. regional Bell operating companies and international postal, telephone and telegraph companies. We have limited experience selling our DTN System internationally and to U.S. regional Bell operating companies and international postal, telephone and telegraph companies. Sales cycles for these customers are often very lengthy and competition for these customers is intense. To succeed in these sales efforts, we believe we must hire additional sales personnel to develop our relationships with these potential customers and develop and manage new sales channels through resellers, distributors and systems integrators. If we do not succeed in our efforts to sell to these customers, the size of our total addressable market will be limited. This, in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could incur significant expense to enforce our rights. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, and our ability to police such misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. This is likely to become an increasingly important issue as we expand our operations and product development into countries that provide a lower level of intellectual property protection. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims, and even if patents are issued, they may be contested, circumvented or invalidated. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with a competitive advantage, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies to our own now or in the future. 17 Table of Contents Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult, time consuming and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property could harm our business. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, many leading companies in the optical communications industry, including our competitors, have extensive patent portfolios with respect to optical communications technology. We expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. From time to time, third parties may assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are important to our business or seek to invalidate the proprietary rights that we hold. Competitors or other third parties have, and may continue to assert claims or initiate litigation or other proceedings against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers alleging infringement of their proprietary rights, or seeking to invalidate our proprietary rights, with respect to our DTN System and technology. In the event that we are unsuccessful in defending against any such claims, or any resulting lawsuit or proceedings, we could incur liability for damages and/or have valuable proprietary rights invalidated. Any claim of infringement from a third party, even one without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from running our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our DTN System. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which would require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Competitors and other third parties have and may continue to assert infringement claims against our customers and sales partners. Any of these claims would require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because we generally indemnify our customers and sales partners from claims of infringement of proprietary rights of third parties. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or sales partners, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We incorporate open source software into our products. Although we monitor our use of open source closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. On May 9, 2006, we and Level 3 were sued by Cheetah in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas Texarkana Division for alleged infringement of patent No. 6,795,605 (the “605 Patent”), and a continuation thereof. On May 16, 2006, Cheetah filed an amended complaint, which requested an order to enjoin the sale of our DTN System, recovery of all damages caused by the alleged infringement and an award of any and all compensatory damages available by law, including damages, attorneys’ fees, associated interest and Cheetah’s costs incurred in the lawsuit. Cheetah’s complaint does not request a specific dollar amount of damages. We are contractually obligated to indemnify Level 3 for damages suffered by Level 3 to the extent our product supplied by us is found to infringe the rights of a third party, and we have assumed the defense of this matter. On July 20, 2006, we and Level 3 filed an amended response. On November 28, 2006, Cheetah filed a second amended complaint and added patent No. 7,142,347 (the “347 Patent”) to the lawsuit. On December 18, 2006, we and Level 3 filed responses to Cheetah’s second amended complaint. On January 30, 2007, Cheetah filed a third amended complaint adding additional assertions of infringement for the two patents in suit. On February 16, 2007, we and Level 3 filed responses to Cheetah’s third amended complaint. 18 Table of Contents On April 11, 2007, we, Level 3 and Cheetah filed a joint motion with the court, agreeing to the following: (1) to stay all proceedings in the lawsuit pending a determination by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as to whether it will reexamine the 605 Patent and the 347 Patent; and (2) if the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office decides to reexamine either the 605 Patent or the 347 Patent, to stay all proceedings in the lawsuit pending final resolution of the reexamination(s) by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. On April 12, 2007, the court granted the motion staying all proceedings in the lawsuit. On June 26, 2007, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ordered reexamination of the 605 Patent. On August 1, 2007, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office also ordered reexamination of the 347 Patent. As a result, all proceedings in this lawsuit are stayed until the final resolution of these reexaminations. In a communication we received from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office dated December 4, 2009, we were advised that various claims in the 347 Patent reexamination have been allowed, while other claims have been rejected. The pending claims in the 605 Patent reexamination are still being considered by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We will have an opportunity to appeal the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s allowance of certain claims in the 347 Patent reexamination to the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and intend to do so. We do not know when the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office reexamination process will be completed. On January 26, 2010, Cheetah’s counsel filed a motion requesting the Court to lift the stay in order to litigate those claims of the 347 patent reexamination which the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office allowed. On February 22, 2010, the court granted Cheetah’s request for an oral hearing on its motion to lift the stay. We believe that Cheetah’s motion should be denied but we cannot predict whether the Court will grant it. If the stay is lifted and in the event that Cheetah is successful in obtaining a judgment requiring us to pay damages or obtains an injunction preventing the sale of our DTN System, our business could be harmed. We have experienced delays in the development and introduction of our DTN System, and any future delays in releasing new products or in releasing enhancements to our existing products may harm our business. Since our products are based on complex technology, including, in some cases, the development of next-generation PICs, we may experience unanticipated delays in developing, improving, manufacturing or deploying it. Any modification to our PIC, including the development of our 400Gbps PICs, entails significant development risks. At any given time, various new product introductions and enhancements to our existing products, such as our future product based on the 400Gbps PICs, are in the development phase and are not yet ready for commercial manufacturing or deployment. The maturing process from laboratory prototype to customer trials, and subsequently to general availability, involves a significant number of simultaneous development efforts. These efforts often must be completed in a timely manner so that they may be introduced into the product development cycle for the system, and include: • completion of product development, including the completion of any associated PIC development such as our 400Gbps PICs; • the qualification and multiple sourcing of critical components; • validation of manufacturing methods and processes; • extensive quality assurance and reliability testing, and staffing of testing infrastructure; • validation of software; and • establishment of systems integration and systems test validation requirements. Each of these steps, in turn, presents risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could decrease the speed and scope of product introduction and marketplace acceptance of our products. New versions of our PICs, such as our 400Gbps PICs, specialized application-specific integrated circuits and intensive software testing and validation are important to the timely introduction of new product introductions and enhancements to our products and to our ability to enter new markets, and schedule delays are common. In addition, unexpected intellectual property disputes, failure of critical design elements, and a host of other execution risks may delay or even prevent the introduction of enhancements to our products. If we do not develop and successfully introduce products in a timely manner, our competitive position may suffer. In addition, if we do not develop and successfully introduce products in sufficient time so as to satisfy our customer’s expectations, we may lose future business from such customers and harm our reputation and our customer relationships, either of which could harm our business and operating results. 19 Table of Contents Our manufacturing process is very complex and the partial or complete loss of our manufacturing facility, or a reduction in yields or an inability to scale capacity to meet customer demands could harm our business. The manufacturing process for certain components of our products, including our PIC, and for our DTN System and ATN System is technically challenging. In the event that any of these manufacturing facilities was fully or partially destroyed, as a result of fire, water damage, or otherwise, it would limit our ability to produce our products. Because of the complex nature of our manufacturing facilities, such loss would take a considerable amount of time to repair or rebuild. The partial or complete loss of any of our manufacturing facilities, or an event causing the interruption in our use of such facility for any extended period of time would cause our business, financial condition and operating results to be harmed. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields and, in some cases, cause production to be suspended. We have had production interruptions and suspensions in the past and may have additional interruptions or suspensions in the future. We expect our manufacturing yield for our next generation PICs to be lower initially and increase as we achieve full production. Poor yields from our PIC manufacturing process or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us customer relations and business reputation problems, harming our business and operating results. In July 2009, we announced a restructuring plan under which we closed our Maryland based semiconductor fabrication plant (“FAB”) and consolidated these activities into our primary FAB location in Sunnyvale, California. This consolidation of activities into one location is expected to facilitate collaboration across integration platforms in support of our next generation products. As a result, during 2009, we recorded restructuring and other related costs of $3.9 million related to severance and related expenses, equipment and facilities-related costs, operating lease termination costs, and other exit costs. We substantially completed our restructuring actions in the fourth quarter of 2009. However, additional charges may be incurred in the future related to this restructuring, particularly if the actual costs associated with vacant facilities and other restructured activities are higher than expected. In addition, our manufacturing facilities may not have adequate capacity to meet the demand for our products or we may not be able to increase our capacity to meet potential increases in demand for our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet demand, either in our own facilities or through foundry or similar arrangements with third parties, could harm our relationships with customers, our business and our operating results. Our leadership transitions may not go smoothly and could adversely impact our future operations. On January 1, 2010, Jagdeep Singh stepped down as our President and Chief Executive Officer and became our Executive Chairman. On January 1, 2010, Thomas Fallon, our then current Chief Operating Officer became our President and Chief Executive Officer. In January 2010, we announced that Duston Williams, our Chief Financial Officer, will be resigning from this position on June 26, 2010 and will be replaced by Ita Brennan, our current Vice President and Corporate Controller. A significant leadership change is inherently risky and we may be unable to manage these transitions smoothly which could adversely impact our future strategy and ability to function or execute and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to accurately forecast demand for our products, we may have excess or insufficient inventory, which may increase our operating costs, decrease our revenue and harm our business. We are required to generate forecasts of future demands for our products several months prior to the scheduled delivery to our prospective customers, which requires us to make significant investments before we know if corresponding revenue will be recognized. If we overestimate demand for our products or particular elements of our products and increase our inventory in anticipation of customer orders that do not materialize, we will have excess inventory, we will face a risk of obsolescence and significant inventory write-downs and our capital infrastructure will be depreciated across fewer units raising our per unit costs. If we underestimate demand for our products, we will have inadequate inventory, which could slow down or interrupt the manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and our ability to recognize revenue. If actual market conditions are less favorable than our internal projections, additional inventory write-offs may be required. In addition, we may be unable to meet our supply commitments to customers which could result in a breach of our customer agreements and require us to pay damages. Lead times for materials and components, including application-specific integrated circuits, that we need to order for the manufacture of our products vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for each component at a given time. 20 Table of Contents Product performance problems, including undetected errors in our hardware or software, or deployment delays could harm our business and reputation. The development and production of new products with high technology content, such as our DTN System and ATN System, is complicated and often involves problems with software, components and manufacturing methods. Complex hardware and software products, such as our DTN System and ATN System, can often contain undetected errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have experienced errors in the past in connection with our DTN System, including failures due to the receipt of faulty components from our suppliers. We suspect that errors, including potentially serious errors, will be found from time to time in our DTN System and ATN System. We have been shipping our DTN System since November 2004 and our ATN System since August 2009, which provides us with limited information on which to judge their reliability. Our DTN System and ATN System may suffer degradation of performance and reliability over time. If reliability, quality or network monitoring problems develop, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including: • delays in our ability to recognize revenue; • costs associated with fixing software or hardware defects or replacing products; • high service and warranty expenses; • delays in shipments; • high inventory excess and obsolescence expense; • high levels of product returns; • diversion of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts; • delays in collecting accounts receivable; • payment of damages for performance failures; • reduced orders from existing customers; and • declining interest from potential customers. Because we outsource the manufacturing of certain components of our products, we may also be subject to product performance problems as a result of the acts or omissions of these third parties. From time to time, we encounter interruptions or delays in the activation of our products at a customers’ site. These interruptions or delays may result from product performance problems or from issues with installation and activation, some of which are outside our control. If we experience significant interruptions or delays that we cannot promptly resolve, the associated revenue for these installations may be delayed or confidence in our products could be undermined, which could cause us to lose customers and fail to add new customers. We must respond to rapid technological change and comply with evolving industry standards and requirements for our products to be successful. The optical communications equipment market is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. The introduction of new communications technologies and the emergence of new industry standards or requirements could render our products obsolete. Further, in developing our products, we have made, and will continue to make, assumptions with respect to which standards or requirements will be adopted by our customers and competitors. If the standards or requirements adopted by our prospective customers are different from those on which we have focused our efforts, market acceptance of our products would be reduced or delayed and our business would be harmed. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their existing products and to introduce new products and technologies and to influence customers’ buying criteria so as to emphasize product capabilities that we may not possess, such as capacity greater than 1.6 Terabits per second. To be competitive, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. We may not have sufficient resources to make these investments, we may not be able to make the technological advances necessary to be competitive and we may not be able to effectively sell our products to customers who have prior relationships with our competitors. 21 Table of Contents We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, and if we fail to obtain these components on a timely basis, we will not meet our customers’ product delivery requirements. We currently purchase several key components from single or limited sources. In particular, we rely on our own production of certain components of our products, such as PICs, and on third parties as sole source suppliers for certain of the components of our systems, including: application-specific integrated circuits, field-programmable gate arrays, processors, and other semiconductor and optical components. We purchase these items on a purchase order basis and have no long-term contracts with most of these sole source suppliers. If any of our sole or limited source suppliers suffer from capacity constraints, lower than expected yields, work stoppages or any other reduction or disruption in output, they may be unable to meet our delivery schedule. Further, our suppliers could enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors, refuse to sell their products or components to us at commercially reasonable prices or at all, go out of business or discontinue their relationships with us. We may be unable to develop alternative sources for these components. If we do not receive critical components for our products in a timely manner, we will be unable to deliver those components to our manufacturer in a timely manner and would, therefore, be unable to meet our prospective customers’ product delivery requirements. In addition, the sourcing from new suppliers may require us to re-design our products, which could cause delays in the manufacturing and delivery of our systems. In the past, we have experienced delivery delays because of lack of availability of components or reliability issues with components that we were purchasing. In addition, some of our sole source suppliers have gone out of business, limited their supply of components to us, or indicated that they may be going out of business. These supplier disruptions may continue to occur in the future, which could limit our ability to produce the product and cause us to fail to meet a customer’s delivery requirements. Such events could harm our reputation and our customer relationships, either of which could harm our business and operating results. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. As of December 26, 2009, we held $70.4 million (par value) of investments comprised of auction rate securities, or ARS, which are variable-rate debt securities and have a long-term maturity with the interest rate being reset through auctions that are typically held every 7, 28 or 35 days. These securities have historically traded at par and were callable at par at the option of the issuer. Interest was typically paid at the end of each auction period or semiannually. As of December 26, 2009, most of the ARS we held were AAA rated, except for $11.1 million (par value) of our ARS that were downgraded to A3 rating and $0.8 million (par value) of ARS that were downgraded to Aa1 rating during 2009. Our ARS holdings were mostly collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. Since February 2008, most of the auctions for these securities have failed and there is no assurance that future auctions will succeed. As a result, our ability to liquidate our investment in the near term is limited. Additionally, we may not be able to fully recover the par value of our ARS or it could take until final maturity of the ARS (up to 38 years) to realize our investment. In the event we need to access these funds, we may not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful, a secondary market develops or the securities are redeemed by the broker dealer. In October 2008, we elected to participate in a rights offering by UBS Financial Services, Inc. (“UBS”), one of our brokers, which provides us with certain rights (the “Put Rights”) to sell back to UBS $60.8 million of our ARS portfolio at par value as of December 26, 2009, which we purchased through UBS, at any time during a two-year sale period beginning June 30, 2010. By electing to participate in the rights offering, we granted UBS the right, exercisable at any time prior to June 30, 2010 or during the two-year sale period, to purchase or cause the sale of our ARS (“Call Right”). As such, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a gain of $15.9 million related to the Put Rights provided by the settlement and a gross unrealized loss of $16.8 million related to the $65.7 million (par value) portion of our ARS portfolio as of December 27, 2008 which we did not intend to hold until final maturity because of the opportunity provided by the Put Rights. The ARS covered by the UBS settlement and the related Put Rights are revalued on a quarterly basis, and we recorded $4.6 million of unrealized holding gains related to ARS trading securities and a decrease of $3.8 million in the fair value of the Put Rights, for 2009, in Other gain (loss), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. During 2009, $5.2 million of our ARS were called at par value. 22 Table of Contents As of December 26, 2009, the remaining $9.6 million (par value) of ARS which are not subject to the UBS settlement were deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. As of December 26, 2009, we determined that we do not intend to sell these securities and do not believe that it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the securities before recovery of their amortized cost. However, given that the present value of the expected cash flows for these securities was below their amortized cost basis, a cumulative other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) of $2.0 million, equal to the difference between the fair value and the par value has occurred. We recognized credit impairment losses of $1.1 million in our consolidated statements of operations for 2009. The non-credit related portion of this OTTI of $0.9 million was recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 26, 2009. If the issuers of the auction rate securities are unable to successfully close future auctions or refinance their debt in the near term and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record further impairment charges on these investments and may liquidate these investments for less than their face value. In addition, if UBS is unable to honor our Put Rights, the fair value of our Put Rights may be reduced to zero, thus adversely affecting our financial position and capital resources. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The provisions of the act require, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Preparing our financial statements involves a number of complex processes, many of which are done manually and are dependent upon individual data input or review. These processes include, but are not limited to, calculating revenue, deferred revenue and inventory costs. While we continue to automate our processes and enhance our review and put in place controls to reduce the likelihood for errors, we expect that for the foreseeable future many of our processes will remain manually intensive and thus subject to human error. In the past, we have identified several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have remediated these identified material weaknesses, but we cannot give any assurances that all material weaknesses have been identified or that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future in connection with our compliance with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could preclude a conclusion by management that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. The existence or disclosure of any such material weakness could adversely affect our stock price. If we lose key personnel or fail to attract and retain additional qualified personnel when needed, our business may be harmed. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing, and finance personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. For example, senior members of our engineering team have unique technical experience that would be difficult to replace. We do not have long-term employment contracts or key person life insurance covering any of our key personnel. Because our products are complex, we must hire and retain a large number of highly trained customer service and support personnel to ensure that the deployment of our products do not result in network disruption for our customers. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales, marketing, finance and customer service and support personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense in our industry, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area. We may not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining appropriate personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to identify, attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring qualified personnel, particularly engineers and sales personnel, could make it difficult for us to manage our business and meet key objectives, such as timely product introductions. Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable, which could result in an unexpected revenue shortfall in any given quarter. Our products have a lengthy sales cycle, which can extend from six to twelve months and may take even longer for larger prospective customers such as U.S. regional Bell operating companies, international postal, telephone and telegraph companies and U.S. competitive local exchange carriers. Our prospective customers conduct significant evaluation, testing, implementation and acceptance procedures before they purchase our products. We incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort during this time, regardless of whether we make a sale. Because the purchase of our equipment involves substantial cost, most of our customers wait to purchase our equipment until they are ready to deploy it in their network. As a result, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the timing of future purchases by our customers. In addition, product purchases are often subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative processing and other delays. If sales expected from customers for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our revenue will be negatively impacted. 23 Table of Contents Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may harm our operating results. We market, sell and service our products globally. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, we derived approximately 31%, 21% and 19%, respectively, of our revenue from customers outside of the United States. We have sales and support personnel in numerous countries worldwide. In addition, we have a large group of software development personnel located in Bangalore, India and a group of hardware and software development engineers located in Beijing, China. We expect that significant management attention and financial resources will be required for our international activities over the foreseeable future as we continue to expand our international presence. In some countries, our successes in selling our products will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local partners. Our inability to identify appropriate partners or reach mutually satisfactory arrangements for international sales of our products could impact our ability to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Our international operations are subject to inherent risks, and our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • difficulties of managing and staffing international offices, and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • tariff and trade barriers and other regulatory requirements or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; • certification requirements; • greater difficulty documenting and testing our internal controls; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • political and economic instability; • effects of changes in currency exchange rates which could negatively affect our financial results and cash flows; • service provider and government spending patterns. International customers may also require that we comply with certain testing or customization of our products to conform to local standards. The product development costs to test or customize our products could be extensive and a material expense for us. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A portion of our sales are from countries outside of the United States, and are in currencies other than U.S. dollars, primarily the Euro. Fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably a strengthening of the dollar against the Euro, could have a material impact on our revenue and gross margins in future periods. We have established a hedging program to partially offset our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary based on our assessment of the relevant risks and related costs. However, our hedging activities may not fully offset the adverse financial impacts resulting from unfavorable movements in foreign currency exchange rates and these impacts could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 24 Table of Contents If our contract manufacturers do not perform as we expect, our business may be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to have sufficient volumes of our products manufactured in a cost-effective and quality-controlled manner. We have engaged third parties to manufacture certain elements of our products at multiple contract manufacturing sites. There are a number of risks associated with our dependence on contract manufacturers, including: • reduced control over delivery schedules, particularly for international contract manufacturing sites; • reliance on the quality assurance procedures of third parties; • potential uncertainty regarding manufacturing yields and costs; • potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; • potential uncertainty related to the use of international contract manufacturing sites; • limited warranties on components supplied to us; • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; and • potential manufacturing disruptions. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fulfill orders. Our contract manufacturers may not be able to meet the delivery requirements of our customers, which could decrease customer satisfaction and harm our product sales. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our contract manufacturers that will guarantee product availability, or the continuation of particular pricing or payment terms. If our contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products or components of our products in required volumes or our relationship with any of our contract manufacturers is discontinued for any reason, we would be required to identify and qualify alternative manufacturers, which could cause us to be unable to meet our supply requirements to our customers and result in the breach of our customer agreements. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming and if we are required to change or qualify a new contract manufacturer, we would likely lose sales revenue and damage our existing customer relationships. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operations. We have made strategic acquisitions of businesses, technologies and other assets in the past. While we have no current agreements or commitments, we may in the future acquire businesses, product lines or technologies. In the event of any future acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or they may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors and we could: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur debt and assume other liabilities; or • incur amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets and/or incur large and immediate write-offs. Acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including: • problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products with our own; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • assumption of unknown liabilities; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; 25 Table of Contents • increased accounting compliance risk; • risks associated with entering new markets; and • potential loss of key employees. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future. Our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our use and reliance upon development resources in India, China and Canada may expose us to unanticipated costs or liabilities. We have established development centers in India, China and Canada and expect to continue to increase hiring of personnel for these facilities. There is no assurance that our reliance upon development resources in India, China or Canada will enable us to achieve meaningful cost reductions or greater resource efficiency. Further, our development efforts and other operations in these countries involve significant risks, including: • difficulty hiring and retaining appropriate engineering resources due to intense competition for such resources and resulting wage inflation; • the knowledge transfer related to our technology and exposure to misappropriation of intellectual property or confidential information, including information that is proprietary to us, our customers and other third parties; • heightened exposure to changes in the economic, security and political conditions of India, China and Canada; • fluctuation in currency exchange rates and tax risks associated with international operations; and • development efforts that do not meet our requirements because of language, cultural or other differences associated with international operations, resulting in errors or delays. Difficulties resulting from the factors above and other risks related to our operations in these countries could expose us to increased expense, impair our development efforts, harm our competitive position and damage our reputation. Unforeseen health, safety and environmental costs could harm our business. Our manufacturing operations use substances that are regulated by various federal, state and international laws governing health, safety and the environment, including the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) and Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) regulations adopted by the European Union. If we experience a problem with these substances, it could cause an interruption or delay in our manufacturing operations or could cause us to incur liabilities for any costs related to health, safety or environmental remediation. We could also be subject to liability if we do not handle these substances in compliance with safety standards for storage and transportation and applicable laws. If we experience a problem or fail to comply with such safety standards, our business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. We are subject to export control laws that limit which products we sell and where and to whom we sell our products. U.S. export control laws also limit our ability to conduct product development activities in certain countries. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain technologies and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Failure to comply with these and similar laws on a timely basis, or at all, decreased use of our products or any limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 26 Table of Contents If we need additional capital in the future, it may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our business requires significant capital. We have historically relied on significant outside debt and equity financing as well as cash flow from operations to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financings in the future to fund our operations or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We have a history of significant operating losses and for 2009, we had a net loss of $86.6 million. In the event that we require additional capital, we may be unable to liquidate our auction rate securities. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be limited and our business will be harmed. We are subject to government regulations that could adversely impact our business. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has jurisdiction over the entire U.S. communications industry and, as a result, our products and our North American customers are subject to FCC rules and regulations. Current and future FCC regulations affecting communications services, our products or our customers’ businesses could negatively affect our business. In addition, international regulatory standards could impair our ability to develop products for international customers in the future. Delays caused by our compliance with regulatory requirements could result in postponements or cancellations of product orders. Further, we may not be successful in obtaining or maintaining any regulatory approvals that may, in the future, be required to operate our business. Any failure to obtain such approvals could harm our business and operating results. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events could harm our operations. Our headquarters and the majority of our infrastructure, including our PIC manufacturing facility, are located in Northern California, an area that is susceptible to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Further, a terrorist attack aimed at Northern California or at our nation’s energy or telecommunications infrastructure could hinder or delay the development and sale of our products. In the event that an earthquake, terrorist attack or other catastrophe were to destroy any part of our facilities, or certain of our contract manufacturers’ facilities, destroy or disrupt vital infrastructure systems or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future. The trading prices of our common stock and the securities of other technology companies have been and may continue to be highly volatile. Further, our common stock has limited prior trading history. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: • variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or agreements by us or by our competitors; • the gain or loss of customers; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our future operating results or external guidance on those results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and 27 Table of Contents • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or operating results. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Each of these factors, among others, could harm the value of your investment in our common stock. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action lawsuits filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If no or few securities or industry analysts cover our company, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which apply to us, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” convertible preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a supermajority stockholder vote; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office rather than by stockholders; • prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 28 Table of Contents 