Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our business strategy includes the continuation of significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a significant growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. We cannot assure you we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or growth will be successfully managed. We face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. We continually seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions and may continue to engage in de novo branch expansion in the future. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners may negatively affect our business; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion may negatively affect our business; 17 Table of Contents • we may not be able to finance an acquisition without diluting our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction may detract from their business productivity; • we may enter into new markets where we lack experience; • we may introduce new products and services into our business with which we have no prior experience; and • we may incur an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and experience adverse short-term effects on our results of operations. In addition, no assurance can be given that we will be able to integrate our operations after an acquisition without encountering difficulties including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of our respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Successful integration of our operations with another entity’s will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. If we have difficulties with the integration, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from any particular acquisition or merger. In addition, we may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to such integration. Changes in the interest rate environment could reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends substantially upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest paid for liabilities, such as savings and time deposits. Market interest rates for loans, investments and deposits are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control. Recently, interest rate spreads have generally narrowed due to changing market conditions, policies of various government and regulatory authorities and competitive pricing pressures, and we cannot predict whether these rate spreads will narrow even further. This narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. In addition, any significant increase in prevailing interest rates could adversely affect our mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could cause customers to request fewer refinancings and purchase money mortgage originations. We could suffer loan losses from a decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses, that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to the local economies in Bradley, Hamilton, Jackson, Jefferson, Knox, Loudon, McMinn, Monroe, Putnam and Union Counties, Tennessee and Catoosa and Whitfield Counties, Georgia. Our success depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary market areas. If the communities in which FSGBank operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Unpredictable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and our financial performance. Economic recession over a prolonged period or other economic problems in our market areas could have a 18 Table of Contents material adverse impact on the quality of the loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. Future adverse changes in the economies in our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, the banking industry in Tennessee and Georgia is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. As an example, our banking business in northern Georgia is highly dependent on the carpet industry, and, as a result, if the carpet industry or one of the large carpet employers in Dalton, Georgia should suffer a downturn in its business, our operating performance could be adversely affected. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources following this offering will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. We face strong competition from larger, more established competitors. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary market area with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. If the value of real estate in our core market were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. With most of our loans concentrated along the Interstate corridors of eastern and middle Tennessee and northern Georgia, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of borrowers, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2005, approximately 67.9% of our loans had real estate as a 19 Table of Contents primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our recent and rapid growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. In the future, we may not have the benefit of several recently favorable factors, such as a generally predictable interest rate environment, a strong residential mortgage market or the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the teamwork and increased productivity fostered by our culture, which could harm our business. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters teamwork and increased productivity. As our organization grows and we are required to implement more complex organization management structures, we may fine it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. As a community bank, we have different lending risks than larger banks. We provide services to our local communities. Our ability to diversify our economic risks is limited by our own local markets and economies. We lend primarily to individuals and to small to medium-sized businesses, which may expose us to greater lending risks than those of banks lending to larger, better-capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. We manage our credit exposure through careful monitoring of loan applicants and loan concentrations in particular industries, and through loan approval and review procedures. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses is an estimate based on experience, judgment and expectations regarding our borrowers, the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgment of our regulators. We cannot assure you that our loan loss reserves will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, profitability or financial condition. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Our subsidiary is primarily regulated by the OCC. Our compliance with Federal Reserve Board and OCC regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. 20 Table of Contents The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we may experience greater compliance costs. Tennessee law and our charter limit the ability of others to acquire us. Various anti-takeover protections for Tennessee corporations are set forth in the Tennessee Business Corporation Act, the Business Combination Act, the Control Share Acquisition Act, the Greenmail Act and the Investor Protection Act. Because our common stock is registered with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Business Combination Act automatically applies to us unless our shareholders adopt a charter or bylaw amendment which expressly excludes us from the anti-takeover provisions of the Business Combination Act two years prior to a proposed takeover. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of recommending such charter or bylaw amendment. These statutes have the general effect of discouraging, or rendering more difficult, unfriendly takeover or acquisition attempts. Such provisions would be beneficial to current management in an unfriendly takeover attempt but could have an adverse effect on shareholders who might wish to participate in such a transaction. Changes in monetary policies may have an adverse effect on our business. Our results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success is, and is expected to remain, highly dependent on our executive officers, especially Rodger B. Holley, Lloyd (“Monty”) L. Montgomery III and William (“Chip”) L. Lusk, Jr. This is particularly true because, as a community bank, we depend on our management team’s ties to the community to generate business for us. Our rapid growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of any such person’s services may have an adverse effect upon us. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. We make no assurances that we will pay any dividends in the future. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, regulatory restrictions and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when and if declared by our Board of Directors out of funds legally available therefor. As part of our consideration to pay cash dividends, we intend to retain adequate funds from future earnings to support the development and growth of our business. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by federal policies and regulations. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. Further, our principal source of funds to pay dividends is cash dividends that we receive from our subsidiary. The payment of dividends by FSGBank to us is subject to restrictions imposed by federal banking laws, regulations and authorities. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances are discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or 21 Table of Contents third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit the use of properties that we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no written comments from the Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Act which remain unresolved. 