Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS We are currently operating under a Consent Order from the OCC and a Written Agreement from the Federal Reserve Bank, which may impact our operations and generally require significant management attention. While we continue to make progress on compliance with our regulatory agreements, we are currently not in compliance with certain components of the agreements. Our compliance efforts require a significant amount of our management’s time and attention. Continuing non-compliance may result in additional restrictions and/or enforcement actions that may negatively impact our operations. Further risk factors address specific operational regulatory and market risks. We have incurred operating losses and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the future. We incurred a net loss allocated to common stockholders of $25.1 million, or $15.79 per share, for the year ended December 31, 2011, due primarily to credit losses and associated costs, including a significant provision for loan losses. Although we have taken steps to reduce our credit exposure, we likely will continue to have a higher than normal level of non-performing assets and charge-offs into 2012, which would continue to adversely impact our overall financial condition and results of operations. We may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. A customer’s failure to repay us is usually preceded by missed monthly payments. In some instances, however, a customer may declare bankruptcy prior to missing payments, and, following a borrower filing bankruptcy, a lender’s recovery of the credit extended is often limited. Since our loans are secured by collateral, we may attempt to seize the collateral when and if customers default on their loans. However, the value of the collateral may not equal the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy in our market area generally and among our customers specifically can be precursors of future charge-offs and may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses. Higher charge-off rates and an increase in our allowance for loan and lease losses may hurt our overall financial performance if we are unable to increase revenue to compensate for these losses and may also increase our cost of funds. 23 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expenses, that represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance for loan and lease losses and our methodology for calculating the allowance are fully described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements under “Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses”, and in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Statement of Financial Condition—Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses” section. In general, an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is established to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge offs, based on judgments that are different than those of management. As we are consistently adjusting our loan portfolio and underwriting standards to reflect current market conditions, we can provide no assurance that our methodology will not change, which could result in a charge to earnings. We continually reassess the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the sufficiency of our allowance for loan and lease losses as part of FSGBank’s credit functions. Our allowance for loan and lease losses increased from 3.30% of total loans at December 31, 2010 to 3.35% at December 31, 2011. We recorded a provision for loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2011 of approximately $10.9 million, which was significantly lower than the $34.7 million and $25.4 million recognized for the years ending December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We charged-off approximately $15.3 million in loans, net of recoveries, during the year ended December 31, 2011, which was significantly lower than in 2010 but higher than in previous periods. We will likely experience additional classified loans and non-performing assets in the foreseeable future, as well as related increases in loan charge-offs, as the deterioration in the credit and real estate markets causes borrowers to default. Further, the value of the collateral underlying a given loan, and the realizable value of such collateral in a foreclosure sale, likely will be negatively affected by the current downturn in the real estate market, and therefore may result in an inability to realize a full recovery in the event that a borrower defaults on a loan. Any additional non-performing assets, loan charge-offs, increases in the provision for loan losses or the continuation of aggressive charge-off policies or any inability by us to realize the full value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default, will negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the price of our securities. Further, there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31, 2011 will be sufficient to cover future credit losses. We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development, and construction loans for builders and developers, and as of December 31, 2011, we had $53.8 million in such loans outstanding, representing 75.3% of FSGBank’s total risk-based capital. These land acquisition and development, and construction loans are more risky than other types of loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting and project risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project 24 Table of Contents completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk that borrowers cannot obtain affordable financing, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. There can be no assurance that losses in our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Given the current environment, the non-performing loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio are likely to increase during 2012, and these non-performing loans could result in a material level of charge-offs, which would negatively impact our capital and earnings. If the value of real estate in our core markets were to decline further, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of borrowers, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2011, approximately 85.2% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower but may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If the value of real estate in our core markets were to decline further, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. As a result, if we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. The amount of our OREO may result in additional losses, and costs and expenses that will negatively affect our operations. At December 31, 2011, we had a total of $25.1 million of OREO. This level of OREO is due, among other things, to the continued deterioration of the residential real estate market and the tightening of the credit market. The costs and expenses to maintain the real estate are proportionate to our level of OREO. Due to the on-going economic downturn, the amount of OREO may continue to remain elevated in the coming months. Any additional increase in losses, and maintenance costs and expenses due to OREO may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market of reduced real estate values and excess inventory, which may make the disposition of OREO properties more difficult, increase maintenance costs and expenses, and may reduce our ultimate realization from any OREO sales. Our ability to retain, attract and motivate qualified individuals may be limited by our financial and regulatory condition, restrictions on our ability to compensate those individuals, and the need for regulatory non-objection to fill certain positions. Our success depends on our ability to retain, attract and motivate qualified individuals in key positions throughout the organization. Our financial and regulatory condition may limit our ability to retain, attract and motivate qualified individuals. Among other factors, the decline in our stock price has limited the real and perceived value of our historical stock compensation, and our condition may be viewed as a liability by current and prospective employees. We are generally prohibited from entering into, amending, or renewing any agreement that provides for golden parachute payments to an institution-affiliated party or from making such golden parachute payments, absent approval from the federal banking regulators. As a participant in the CPP, we are subject to specified limits on the compensation we can pay to certain senior executive officers. The limitations, which include restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to First Security’s senior executive officers, a prohibition on any “golden parachute” payments and a “clawback” of any bonus that was based on materially inaccurate financial data or other performance metric, could limit our ability to retain, attract and motivate the best executive officers because other competing employers may not be subject to these limitations. 25 Table of Contents We are also currently required to notify the federal banking regulators in advance of employing any senior executive officer or changing the responsibilities of a senior executive officer. This requirement could prevent us from hiring the individuals of our choosing, could discourage potential applicants, or otherwise delay our ability to fill vacant positions. If we are unable to retain, attract and motivate qualified individuals in key positions, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have had significant turnover in our senior management team and this turnover could negatively impact our future results of operations. Our success depends substantially on the skill and abilities of our executive officers and senior officers. The loss of key personnel has impacted our operations, and we have added several new senior officers during 2011 and 2012. During 2011, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer each resigned from the Company, and the Company hired new individuals to serve as Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Senior Lender. During 2012, the Company moved its Chief Risk Officer into a newly created position of Chief Administrative Officer and hired individuals to serve as Chief Credit Officer, Retail Banking Officer and Director of Wealth Management and Trust. The Company may be unable to retain some other employees based on turnover in the senior management team. While certain members of the management team have previously worked together, we cannot assure you that the collective new team will be successful in executing our strategy and improving our current results of operations. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make a loan on or secured by real property or how to value such loan in the future may not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral that we can realize. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made, and, as real estate values in our market area have experienced changes in value in relatively short periods of time, this estimate might not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral after the loan has been closed. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property. The valuation of the property may negatively impact the continuing value of such loan and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We will realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of non-performing assets are less than the fair value of such assets. We have announced a strategy to manage our non-performing assets aggressively, a portion of which may not be currently identified. Non-performing assets are recorded on our financial statements at fair value, as required under GAAP, unless these assets have been specifically identified for liquidation, in which case they are recorded at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. In current market conditions, we are likely to realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of non-performing assets are less than the recorded fair value of such assets. We are subject to risks in the event of certain borrower defaults, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity position and results of operations. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of certain borrower defaults, which could adversely affect our liquidity position, results of operations, and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which the loans were originated. In the event of a 26 Table of Contents breach of any of the representations and warranties related to a loan sold, we could be liable for damages to the investor up to and including a “make whole” demand that involves, at the investor’s option, either reimbursing the investor for actual losses incurred on the loan or repurchasing the loan in full. Our maximum exposure to credit loss in the event of make whole loan repurchase claim would be the unpaid principal balance of the loan to be repurchased along with any premium paid by the investor when the loan was purchased and other minor collection cost reimbursements. While we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, these steps might not be effective and might not lessen the risks associated with loans sold in the past. If repurchase demands increase, our liquidity position, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Negative publicity about financial institutions, generally, or about First Security or FSGBank, specifically, could damage First Security’s reputation and adversely impact its liquidity, business operations or financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from the actual or alleged conduct of financial institutions, generally, or First Security or FSGBank, specifically, in any number of activities, including leasing and lending practices, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action, any of which could negatively affect our liquidity, business operations or financial results. Increases in our expenses and other costs, including those related to centralizing our credit functions, could adversely affect our financial results. Our expenses and other costs, such as operating expenses and hiring new employees to enhance our credit and underwriting administration, directly affect our earnings results. In light of the extremely competitive environment in which we operate, and because the size and scale of many of our competitors provides them with increased operational efficiencies, it is important that we are able to successfully manage such expenses. We are aggressively managing our expenses in the current economic environment, but as our business develops, changes or expands, and as we hire additional personnel, additional expenses can arise. Other factors that can affect the amount of our expenses include legal and administrative cases and proceedings, which can be expensive to pursue or defend. In addition, changes in accounting policies can significantly affect how we calculate expenses and earnings. Changes in the interest rate environment could reduce our net interest income, which could reduce our profitability. As a financial institution, our earnings significantly depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as investment securities and loans, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes in the Federal Reserve Board’s fiscal and monetary policies, affects us more than non-financial institutions and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and total income. Our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. As a result, an increase or decrease in market interest rates could have material adverse effects on our net interest margin and results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. In addition, any significant increase in prevailing interest rates could adversely affect our mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could cause customers to request fewer refinancings and purchase money mortgage originations. 27 Table of Contents We face strong competition from larger, more established competitors that may inhibit our ability to compete and expose us to greater lending risks. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Our ability to diversify our economic risks is limited by our own local markets and economies. We lend primarily to individuals and to small to medium-sized businesses, which may expose us to greater lending risks than those of banks lending to larger, better capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. As an example, our market area in northern Georgia is highly dependent on the home furnishings and carpet industry centered near Dalton, Georgia. Because of the downturn in residential construction, this industry has suffered a business decline, which has adversely affected the performance of our operations in Dalton and surrounding areas. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. The soundness of our financial condition may also affect our competitiveness. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Customers may decide not to do business with us due to our financial condition. In addition, our ability to compete is impacted by the limitations on our activities imposed under the Order and the Agreement. We have faced and continue to face, additional regulatory restrictions that our competitors may not be subject to, including improving the overall risk profile of the Company and restrictions on the amount of interest we can pay on deposit accounts, which could adversely impact our ability to compete and attract and retain customers. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary market area with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. Our agreement with the Treasury under the CPP is subject to unilateral change by the Treasury, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Under the CPP, the Treasury may unilaterally amend the terms of its agreement with us in order to comply with any changes in federal law. We cannot predict the effects of any of these changes and of the associated amendments. It is possible, however, that any such amendment could have a material impact on us or our operations. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations or similar matters arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, premiums for insurance covering the financial 28 Table of Contents and banking sectors are rising. We may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms or at historic rates, if at all. Changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, the status of examinations by tax authorities and newly enacted statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to various taxing jurisdictions where we conduct business. We assess the appropriate tax treatment of transactions and filing positions after considering statutes, regulations, judicial precedent and other pertinent information and maintain tax accruals consistent with our evaluation. This evaluation incorporates assumptions and estimates that involve a high degree of judgment and subjectivity. Changes in the results of these evaluations could have a material impact on our operating results. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances are discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit the use of properties that we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Our loan policies require certain due diligence of high risk industries and properties with the intention of lowering our risk of a non-performing loan and/or foreclosed property. Electronic intrusion attempts could result in expenses being incurred. We maintain many bank records in electronic formats. The data is stored on secure networks with appropriate security measures to protect that data from unauthorized retrieval or usage. Should the data controls be bypassed, additional expenses could be incurred associated with correction of manipulated data, restoration of systems, revising security controls, notification of affected customers, and addressing reputational damage. RISKS RELATED TO RECENT MARKET, LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY EVENTS We are subject to an Order that could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock. In addition, addressing the Order will require significant time and attention from our management team, which may increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes and adversely affect our profitability in the near-term. On April 28, 2010, pursuant to a Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a Consent Order the Bank by and through its Board of Directors consented and agreed to the issuance of a Consent Order by the OCC, the Bank’s primary regulator. The Bank and the OCC agreed as to the areas of the Bank’s operations that warrant improvement and a plan for making those improvements. The Order required the Bank to develop and submit written strategic and capital plans covering at least a three-year period. The Bank is required to review and revise various policies and procedures, including those associated with concentration management, the allowance for loan and lease losses, liquidity management, criticized asset, loan review and credit. While the Company has taken, and intends to continue to take, such actions as may be necessary to enable the Bank to comply with the requirements of the Order, there can be no assurance that the Bank will be able to 29 Table of Contents comply fully with the provisions of the Order, or that efforts to comply with the Order, particularly the limitations on interest rates offered by the Bank, will not have adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of the Company and the Bank. We are currently deemed not in compliance with certain provisions of the Order, including the capital requirements. Any material noncompliance may result in further enforcement actions by the OCC, including the OCC requiring that FSGBank develop a plan to sell, merge or liquidate. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to comply fully with the Order, that efforts to comply with the Order will not have a material adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of FSGBank, or that further enforcement actions won’t be imposed on FSGBank. We are not currently in compliance with the capital requirements contained in our Order and may need to raise capital to comply, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or it could be dilutive to our existing stockholders, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. The Order required the Bank to, within 120 days of the effective date of the Order, achieve and thereafter maintain total capital at least equal to 13% of risk-weighted assets and Tier 1 capital at least equal to 9% of adjusted total assets. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank’s total risk-based capital ratio was approximately 10.9% and its leverage ratio was approximately 5.6%. The Company is considering a variety of strategic alternatives intended to achieve and maintain the prescribed capital ratios. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. If we need to raise additional capital, there is no guarantee that we will be able to borrow funds or successfully raise capital at all or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not dilutive to existing stockholders. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to operate our business could be materially impaired. The failure to satisfy the capital requirements of the Order could result in further enforcement actions by the OCC, including the OCC requiring that the Bank develop a plan to sell, merge or liquidate the Bank. We are subject to an Agreement that could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock. On September 7, 2010, First Security entered into an Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank. The Agreement is designed to enhance the Company’s ability to act as a source of strength to the Bank. Pursuant to the Agreement, the Company is prohibited from declaring or paying dividends without prior written consent from the Federal Reserve Bank. In addition, pursuant to the Agreement, without the prior written consent of regulators, the Company is prohibited from taking dividends, or any other form of payment representing a reduction of capital, from the Bank; incurring, increasing or guaranteeing any debt; or redeeming any shares of the Company’s common stock. The Company will also provide quarterly written progress reports to the Federal Reserve Bank. The Company was also required to submit to the Federal Reserve Bank a written plan designed to maintain sufficient capital at the Company, on a consolidated basis, and at the Bank. We are currently deemed not in compliance with several provisions of the Agreement, including the submission of an acceptable capital plan. During March 2012, we submitted a revised five-year strategic and capital plan, developed by the current management team, that we believe addresses the requirements of the Agreement. Any material failure to comply with the provisions of the Agreement could result in further enforcement actions by the Federal Reserve Bank. While the Company intends to take such actions as may be necessary to comply with the requirements of the Agreement, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to comply fully with the provisions of the Agreement, or that efforts to comply with the Agreement, particularly the limitations on dividend payments, will not have adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of the Company and the value of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents Our inability to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits without the prior approval of the FDIC could adversely affect our liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $238.4 million in out of market deposits, including brokered certificates of deposit and CDARS®, which represented approximately 23.4% of our total deposits. Because the Order establishes specific capital amounts to be maintained by the Bank, the Bank may not be considered better than “adequately capitalized” for capital adequacy purposes, even if the Bank exceeds the levels of capital set forth in the Order. As an adequately capitalized institution, the Bank may not accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits without prior approval of the FDIC. As of December 31, 2011, brokered deposits maturing in the next 24 months totaled $150.8 million. Funding sources for the maturing brokered deposits include, among other sources: our cash account at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta; growth, if any, of core deposits from current and new retail and commercial customers; scheduled repayments on existing loans; and the possible pledge or sale of investment securities. As an adequately capitalized institution, the Bank also may not pay interest on deposits that are more than 75 basis points above the rate applicable to the applicable market of the Bank as determined by the FDIC. These interest rate limitations may limit the ability of the Bank to increase or maintain core deposits from current and new deposit customers. The limitations on our ability to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits, or pay more than 75 basis points above the applicable rate could adversely affect our liquidity. A continuation of the current economic downturn in the housing market and the homebuilding industry and in our markets generally could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our long-term success depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary market areas. If the communities in which FSGBank operates do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. The unpredictable economic conditions we have faced over the last 36 months have had an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and our financial performance. Economic recession over a prolonged period or other economic problems in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. Future adverse changes in the economies in our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, the banking industry in Tennessee and Georgia is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. Since the third quarter of 2007, the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. As a result, there has been substantial concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to subprime mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. As of December 31, 2011, our non-performing assets had decreased to $72.4 million, or 6.49% of our total assets, as compared to $79.2 million, or 6.78% as of December 31, 2010. However, the housing and the residential mortgage markets continue to experience a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. The homebuilding and residential mortgage industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and a decrease in the absorption of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we are facing increased delinquencies and non-performing assets as these builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not know when or to what extent the housing market will improve, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, our non-performing assets may continue to increase and we may need to take additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. 31 Table of Contents Negative developments in the financial industry, and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments during 2008 in the global credit and derivative markets resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2012. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. Global securities markets, and bank holding company stock prices in particular, have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. If these negative trends continue, our business operations and financial results may be negatively affected. The FDIC Deposit Insurance assessments that we are required to pay may continue to materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings. As an insured depository institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. These assessments are required to ensure that FDIC deposit insurance reserve ratio meets or exceeds a specified minimum ratio. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, the FDIC deposit insurance reserve ratio must be increased to at least 1.35% of insured deposits by September 30, 2020. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to at least the minimum, over a five-year period, when the reserve ratio falls below the minimum ratio. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act grants to the FDIC greater authority to build up excess reserves when the deposit insurance fund has otherwise met its targets. The recent failures of numerous financial institutions have significantly increased the deposit insurance fund’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio. The FDIC imposed special assessments on banks during 2009 to address this decline and also required the majority of insured institutions to prepay slightly over three years of estimated insurance assessments. Additional insured institution failures in the next few years could result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. While institutions such as ours with less than $10 billion in assets will be exempt from increased premiums required specifically to support the increase in the reserve requirement, we may nonetheless be subject to increased premiums generally over future periods. It is possible that the FDIC may impose additional special assessments in the future as part of its restoration plan. If the FDIC does impose additional special assessments, or otherwise further increases assessment rates, our earnings could be further adversely impacted. The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 was enacted on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with power to promulgate and enforce consumer protection laws. Smaller depository institutions, including those with $10 billion or less in assets, will be subject to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule-writing authority, and existing depository institution regulatory agencies will retain examination and enforcement authority for such institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Council chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to identify institutions and practices that might pose a systemic risk and, among other things, includes provisions affecting (1) corporate governance and executive compensation of all companies whose securities are registered with the SEC, (2) FDIC insurance assessments, (3) interchange fees for debit cards, which would be set by the Federal Reserve under a restrictive “reasonable and proportional cost” per transaction standard and (4) minimum capital levels for bank holding companies, subject to a grandfather clause for financial institutions with less than $15 billion in assets. 32 Table of Contents At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting regulations may adversely impact us. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue attractive business opportunities, cause us to modify our strategies and business operations and increase our capital requirements and constraints, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK If we fail to continue to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market and Nasdaq determines to delist our common stock, the market liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline, and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively affected. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. To maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements. While we intend to maintain our listing on Nasdaq, if we fail to meet the requirements for continued listing or we are unable to cure any events of noncompliance in a timely or effective manner, our common stock could be delisted. The perception or possibility that our common stock could be delisted in the future could negatively affect its liquidity and price. Delisting would have an adverse effect on the liquidity of the common shares and, as a result, the market price for the common stock might become more volatile. Delisting could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us or at all. Although quotes for our common stock would continue to be available on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “Pink Sheets” in the event of a delisting from Nasdaq, such alternatives are generally considered to be less efficient markets, and the stock price, as well as the liquidity of the common stock, may be adversely affected as a result. The trading volume of our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Although our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the trading volume of our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. For the public trading market for our common stock to have the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness requires the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall more than would otherwise be expected if the trading volume of our common stock were commensurate with the trading volumes of the common stock of larger financial services companies. Tennessee law and our charter limit the ability of others to acquire us. Various anti-takeover protections for Tennessee corporations are set forth in the Tennessee Business Corporation Act, the Business Combination Act, the Control Share Acquisition Act, the Greenmail Act and the Investor Protection Act. Because our common stock is registered with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Business Combination Act automatically applies to us unless our stockholders adopt a charter or bylaw amendment which expressly excludes us from the anti-takeover provisions of the Business Combination Act two years prior to a proposed takeover. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of recommending such charter or bylaw amendment. These statutes have the general effect of discouraging, or rendering more difficult, unfriendly takeover or acquisition attempts. Such provisions could be beneficial to current management in an unfriendly takeover attempt but could have an adverse effect on stockholders who might wish to participate in such a transaction. 33 Table of Contents Our future operating results may be below securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. We may be unable to generate significant revenues or grow at the rate expected by securities analysts or investors. In addition, our costs may be higher than we, securities analysts or investors expect. If we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indication of our future performance. In some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock will likely decline. We have elected to defer the dividend payments on our Series A Preferred Stock during 2010 and 2011; as a result, we are unable to pay dividends on our common stock until we pay all dividends in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock. On January 9, 2009, we issued senior preferred stock (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) to the Treasury in an aggregate amount of $33 million, along with a warrant to purchase 82,363 shares of common stock (the “Warrant”). On January 27, 2010, our Board of Directors elected to suspend the dividend on our common stock and elected to defer the dividend payment on our Series A Preferred Stock for the first quarter of 2010; our Board of Directors similarly elected on a quarterly basis to defer the three other scheduled dividend payments on our Series A Preferred Stock during 2010, four in 2011 and the first scheduled dividend payment of 2012. We may not pay dividends on common stock unless all dividends have been paid on the securities issued to the Treasury under the CPP; having deferred these dividend payments, we are prohibited on paying any future dividends on our common stock until all dividends payable to the Treasury under the CPP have been paid in full. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, regulatory restrictions, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when, and if declared by our Board of Directors out of funds legally available for that purpose. As part of our consideration to pay future cash dividends, we intend to retain adequate funds from future earnings to support the development and growth of our business. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by federal policies and regulations. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. Further, our principal sources of funds to pay dividends are cash dividends and management fees that we receive from FSGBank, and the Order and the Agreement preclude the payment of dividends by FSGBank without prior regulatory consent. The Series A Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury impacts net income available to our common stockholders and our earnings per share. As long as shares of our Series A Preferred Stock issued under the CPP are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock have been paid in full. Any dividends declared on shares of our Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, issuance of the Warrant, in conjunction with the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The shares of First Security’s Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up. We can provide no assurances as to when the Series A Preferred Stock can be redeemed and the Warrant can be repurchased. Subject to consultation with our banking regulators, we intend to repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant issued to the Treasury when we believe the credit metrics in our loan portfolio have improved 34 Table of Contents for the long-term and the overall economy has rebounded. However, there can be no assurance when the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant can be repurchased, if at all. Until such time as the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant are repurchased, we will remain subject to the terms and conditions of those instruments. Further, our continued participation in the CPP subjects us to increased regulatory and legislative oversight, including with respect to executive compensation. These oversight and legal requirements under the CPP, as well as any other requirement that the Treasury could adopt in the future, may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry as a whole, and particularly on CPP participants such as ourselves. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Except in connection with the election of two directors to our Board of Directors and as otherwise required by law, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. In addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or our amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock that adversely affects the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock; or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding or are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity other than us and have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable than those of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no written comments from the Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Act which remain unresolved. 