Risk Factors.” In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances contained in this Annual Report may not occur as contemplated, and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied by the forward-looking statements. You should read this Annual Report with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report by these cautionary statements. You should not unduly rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events or otherwise. You should, however, review the factors and risks we describe in the reports we will file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this Annual Report. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview BioMimetic Therapeutics, Inc. develops and commercializes innovative products to help stimulate the body’s natural tissue regenerative process. We believe our protein therapeutic-device combination products have the potential to significantly improve the treatment of musculoskeletal injuries and conditions affecting bones, tendons, ligaments and cartilage. Our platform regenerative technology, which incorporates a potent version of one of the body’s natural key stimulators of tissue repair, may offer physicians advanced biological solutions to actively stimulate tissue healing and regeneration. We have already demonstrated that this technology is safe and effective in stimulating bone and periodontal regeneration in the jaws with the U.S. and Canadian regulatory approvals of our first product, GEM 21S ® Growth-factor Enhanced Matrix. With the divestiture of GEM 21S in January 2008, we are now focused on developing this technology to stimulate tissue healing in orthopedic applications (such as distal radius, or wrist, fractures and fusions of the bones in the foot and ankle to eliminate chronic pain from trauma or arthritis), and potentially spine and sports injury applications. Our current product candidates use the same key stimulator as GEM 21S, and are designed to target a broad range of clinical indications in bone, cartilage, ligament and tendon repair. We currently have seven orthopedic clinical studies that are completed or are under way which seek to demonstrate the safety, clinical utility and/or efficacy of our product candidates in the pipeline, including our lead orthopedic product candidate Augment™ Bone Graft (“Augment”), formerly GEM OS1 bone graft, in treating bone defects and injuries. In addition, we have pre-clinical programs focused on the development of treatments for bone defects in the spine and various sports injury applications, including those requiring cartilage, ligament and tendon repair. We have reported the results of a number of these studies, and those studies suggest that our platform technology will be effective in our target applications. If successful, we expect these clinical studies should lead to regulatory approval of our regenerative product candidates in the United States, Canada and Europe. If approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities, we believe that our product candidates will offer new, effective and less invasive treatment options in orthopedics, spine and sports related injuries to improve the quality of life for millions of patients suffering injuries or deterioration of bones, ligaments, tendons and cartilage. However, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the U.S. economy has been in a recession since December 2007. This economic downturn and the ensuing instability of markets have impacted us by making it difficult to resolve the liquidity issues on our auction rate securities (“ARS”) investments. Since the collapse of the ARS market in February 2008, we have been unable to liquidate the $60.0 million par value in ARS investments that we hold as of December 31, 2008. Furthermore, our general business strategy may be further adversely affected if the current economic conditions deteriorate further, or do not improve. For example, the economy may impact the demand for elective medical procedures that we are targeting with our product candidates, or may impact the pricing that we may set for our products. However, since our anticipated product launch for our lead product candidate remains over a year away, the impact of the current recession on commercial markets for that product remains uncertain. We have responded to the current economic crisis by investing our cash and cash equivalents and our short-term investments conservatively, securing a short-term credit facility to provide some liquidity for our ARS investments, and initiating cost reduction measures such as scaling back growth in staff to conserve cash and manage expenses. In addition, to the extent possible given contractual commitments, in order to postpone major expenses we have postponed certain major equipment purchases, delivery and validation efforts for manufacturing equipment intended for a new manufacturing facility that is being built in the same complex as our headquarters in Franklin, Tennessee. We have leased a portion of this new facility and we intend to move certain of our manufacturing operations to it once completed. Also, we have filed an arbitration claim against Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. (“DBSI”) seeking to force them to repurchase the 4 Table of Contents illiquid ARS investments that they purchased on our behalf in managing our discretionary cash management account. Product Candidates Currently, there are limited biological therapies to stimulate the healing and regeneration of tissues, such as bone, cartilage, ligaments and tendons. As a result, many of these injuries may result in permanent impairment and chronic pain. As baby boomers age, the incidence of musculoskeletal injuries and ailments will be far more prevalent. We believe that our technology is well positioned to address many of these issues. We also believe that the fundamental mode of action of our platform technology in promoting tissue regeneration suggests that it may be effective in a broad array of musculoskeletal applications. Consequently, our technology may prove to address unmet medical needs in bone fractures and fusions, spinal fractures and fusions, and sports injuries. Our product candidates, including our lead product candidate Augment, use recombinant human Platelet-Derived Growth Factor (“rhPDGF-BB”), which is one of the principal naturally occurring wound healing stimulators, to kick start the tissue regeneration process in the body. We believe that rhPDGF-BB is well suited for various applications due to its stimulation of a broad spectrum of cellular events critical for the initiation and progression of healing. rhPDGF-BB acts like a magnet to attract cells necessary for tissue healing through a process known as chemotaxis, while also stimulating an increased number of healing cells through a process known as mitogenesis, thereby expanding the population of cells involved in the repair process. Additionally, data suggests rhPDGF-BB enhances new blood vessel formation, in a process called “angiogenesis,” which is also critical for healing. We believe the combination of the growth factor rhPDGF-BB and a synthetic matrix is key to the overall effectiveness of our product candidates. In the case of our Augment product candidate, the synthetic matrix is beta-tricalcium phosphate (“ß-TCP”), which is a bone matrix. The growth factor rhPDGF-BB jump starts the healing process by providing the biological stimulus for tissue repair, while the ß-TCP synthetic bone matrix provides the framework or scaffold for tissue regeneration, or new bone growth, to occur. Moreover, these two components, which are included in Augment and our other product candidates, have been authorized by the FDA for use in other applications and are being marketed to treat other diseases and injuries. The ß-TCP is used in orthopedic applications as resorbable bone void filler and rhPDGF is used for stimulating healing of chronic ulcers in the lower extremities of diabetic patients and treating periodontally-related bone defects and gingival recession. By combining already marketed components to make a novel and proprietary product, we believe that we will be able to streamline the development process and accelerate the ultimate commercialization of our product candidates. We believe that our product candidates are unique and novel, and that our product development strategy, which uses regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products, has demonstrated success. Other companies have applied a similar strategy in the development of such combination products for the treatment of cardiovascular disease. Such “convergent devices” have revolutionized the way that cardiovascular disease is treated and have proven to be both a clinical and commercial success. We believe the orthopedic industry is in the early stages of a similar transformation from the use of traditional, passive, highly invasive metallic devices to more advanced, bio-active devices. With several product candidates in the pipeline that are based upon similar technology to our previously approved periodontal product, GEM 21S, we are optimistic that we are well positioned to capitalize on this transformation. This proven strategy was very effective in the development of our first product, GEM 21S, which was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) in November 2005 for the treatment of periodontal bone defects and gum tissue recession associated with periodontal disease. This strategy was effective in that we were able to obtain product approval in less than five years. GEM 21S was approved for marketing in the United States and Canada based on data from a 180 patient randomized controlled pivotal clinical trial which demonstrated that it significantly and safely improved bone regeneration in the jaws. It is the first totally synthetic product combining a purified recombinant growth factor with a synthetic bone matrix to be approved by the FDA for human application. Building on the successful approval of GEM 21S, we are applying a similar strategy in the development of our pipeline of regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product candidates for a broad range of orthopedic indications. Our most advanced product candidates, which also incorporate rhPDGF-BB in 5 Table of Contents combination with a bone matrix, are targeted to be used in the open surgical treatment of fractures and fusions (using Augment) and the closed non-surgical treatment of fractures (using Augment™ Injectable Bone Graft (“Augment Injectable”)). We have established strong clinical contacts, manufacturing facilities and a regulatory pathway to product development. These, coupled with the well characterized biology and history of safe use of rhPDGF-BB and the clinically proven efficacy of our platform technology, all position us to become a leader in the development and commercialization of biologically-active devices that will capitalize on the growing market for these products in orthopedic, spine and sports injury applications. While the results of our studies have been positive to date, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, or commercializing our current pipeline of product candidates or that we will do so in a timely fashion. The following clinical studies regarding our orthopedic product candidates have recently been completed or are currently ongoing: Type Product Location Clinical Indication Status Pilot Augment United States Foot and Ankle Fusions Completed Pivotal Augment United States and Canada Foot and Ankle Fusions Enrollment Completed Registration Augment Canada Foot and Ankle Fusions Enrollment Completed Registration Augment Europe Foot and Ankle Fusions Enrollment Completed Pilot Augment Europe Wrist Fractures Completed Pilot Augment Injectable Canada Foot and Ankle Fusions Completed Pilot Augment Injectable Europe Wrist Fractures Completed We believe that rhPDGF is well suited for use in multiple product candidates due to its stimulation of a broad spectrum of cellular events critical for the initiation and progression of orthopedic tissue repair and regeneration. The diversity and importance of the biological activities stimulated by rhPDGF were key elements in our selection of this growth factor as the primary biological ingredient in our initial product and product candidates. Although human studies to demonstrate rhPDGF’s cellular stimulatory property in our product candidates have not been performed, many kinds of cells important to orthopedic tissue repair have been reported in published animal and in vitro studies to respond to rhPDGF, including bone forming cells, cartilage forming cells, bone and cartilage-lineage forming cells and tendon and ligament forming cells. The observation that rhPDGF is naturally contained in platelets and released specifically at sites of injury during blood clotting to initiate events critical to healing has led to rhPDGF being termed nature’s “wound healing protein.” The rhPDGF used in our product candidates is a synthetic version of this naturally occurring substance produced using recombinant DNA techniques. Based on the efficacy demonstrated by GEM 21S in a pivotal clinical study, the results from our pilot clinical studies for Augment and our other product candidates, and the demonstrated ability of rhPDGF to stimulate tissue healing, we believe that our pipeline of orthopedic product candidates has the potential to positively impact patient care and to influence a new generation of orthopedic therapies. We believe our management expertise in the development of regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products, combined with our intellectual property position, and the proven biology and safety of rhPDGF, all position us to become a leader in the development and commercialization of novel therapeutics for the treatment of orthopedic injuries. BioMimetic Therapeutics Highlights Large market opportunities • Targeting orthopedic, spine and sports injury markets. We believe that orthobiologic opportunities represent a multi-billion dollar market driven by an aging population and demand for better therapies. • Relatively few current therapies with potent bio-stimulatory activity are on the market. • Relatively low market penetration will generate substantial revenues. 6 Table of Contents Proven rhPDGF technology • FDA approval of GEM 21S for periodontal bone regeneration suggests potential for efficacy in other bone and musculoskeletal applications. • FDA approval of Regranex® (formerly a product of Johnson & Johnson, currently a product of Systagenix Wound Management, Inc.) for healing of diabetic ulcers suggests potential for broad wound healing applications of rhPDGF. • Clinical and pre-clinical data for Augment and Augment Injectable suggest potential for improved fracture healing and fusions. • Pre-clinical data for rhPDGF suggests potential for bone augmentation to treat osteoporosis. Multiple applications • rhPDGF represents a platform technology that may have multiple applications in musculoskeletal repair. • rhPDGF is a key stimulator of the body’s natural wound healing process. It has a well-established mechanism of action that leads to stimulation of certain cell types, including those important to bone, cartilage, tendon and ligament healing. • Potential applications include fracture and fusion procedures in the axial (spine) and appendicular (long bone) skeleton as well as the extremities (hand and foot). Familiar regulatory path • FDA is regulating our regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product candidate Augment as a medical device. • We believe data supporting GEM 21S FDA approval should provide support for the approval of future rhPDGF products. • Commercial manufacturing and production previously accomplished for GEM 21S. Good Manufacturing Practices compliance found acceptable and International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”) certification obtained. • Safety profile and bioactivity of rhPDGF clearly established. Industry trend towards regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products • rhPDGF provides bio-active drug component to stimulate healing and the device component (matrix) provides tissue specific guide for regeneration. • Strategy follows successful precedent in regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products in cardiovascular (drug coated stents) and periodontal (GEM 21S) therapies. • Strategy addresses clinical preference for bio-active implants. • Market potential for orthobiologics already indicated by sales of INFUSE® Bone Graft (Medtronic, Inc.). Market Trends According to industry data, the worldwide orthopedic market was estimated at $25 billion in 2007. This includes joint replacement, fracture repair, sports injury and spinal procedures. Strong growth in the worldwide orthopedic market is expected, driven by aging baby boomers, the desire for active lifestyles well into retirement and the growth in the incidence of osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, obesity, diabetes and other diseases that cause injury to orthopedic tissues and/or impair the ability of the body to heal injuries. In addition to its growth, the orthopedic markets are undergoing a transition. The orthopedic and sports injury markets have recently experienced increased demand for the adoption of biologically active treatments, which seek to stimulate the body’s own capabilities for regeneration of tissue at injury sites. We believe the orthopedic and sports injury industry is in the early stages of a transition from the use of traditional, passive, highly invasive metallic devices to more advanced, bio-active devices. Evidence of this trend is the fact that osteobiologics, in particular bone grafting related products, is one of the fastest growing segments with the orthopedics market. According to 2008 market research reports, the global orthobiologics market was estimated to be worth $4.2 billion in 2007, and with a growth rate of 17%, it is projected to almost double by 2012. 7 Table of Contents The impressive market performance of the Medtronic, Inc. (“Medtronic”) product INFUSE® Bone Graft for treatment of certain spinal fusions and bone fractures demonstrates market receptivity and acceptance for protein osteobiologics. Industry data indicate that sales of INFUSE were approximately $800 million in 2008. Sales reported for INFUSE for Medtronic’s second and third fiscal quarters of 2009 were flat as compared to the same periods in 2008. We believe sales for INFUSE have slowed as a result of reported complications associated with off-label use of the product in cervical spinal fusions, as well as ongoing governmental investigations into possible promotion of off-label use of INFUSE by Medtronic. The advancement of medical technology in the treatment of orthopedic injuries also is driving an increase in the number of procedures performed annually. Treatments that are minimally invasive and offer pain relief and a return to the activities of daily living have attracted more people to see their doctors to resolve long standing orthopedic problems. Current Therapies for Bone Disorders and Injuries Physicians who treat orthopedic injuries first determine whether conservative, non-surgical treatment or more aggressive surgical treatment is required. This choice is generally dictated by the seriousness of the injury, the degree of tissue disruption or loss and the patient’s general health. For closed, non-surgical treatment, the primary therapies available that are designed to assist the natural healing process of the injured bone and adjacent soft tissue are electrical and ultrasonic bone stimulation. When surgical treatment is indicated, physicians will often use bone or soft tissue grafts in addition to fixation with internal and/or external mechanical devices that stabilize the injury site. Currently available therapies or procedures to stimulate the healing process in the presence of these devices include autograft, allograft or xenograft, synthetic bone or tissue graft products, platelet-rich plasma systems and bone morphogenic proteins. Autograft, a graft using a patient’s own tissues, is the leading procedure for replacing or supplementing lost bone. Using bone tissue may stimulate bone growth and provides a scaffold or matrix onto which new bone tissue can grow. However, procurement of autograft most often requires an additional surgical procedure beyond that required to treat the injury in order to harvest bone from another site in the patient, often from the hip. This additional surgical procedure may be more painful than the patient’s primary surgical procedure to treat the injury and may lead to complications, including increased blood loss, and chronic pain or infection, which may result in an extended hospital stay. Also, there is a limited supply of available donor bone per patient. Furthermore, autograft may not be a suitable treatment for elderly patients or patients with osteoporosis, since the additional surgical procedure to harvest bone may further weaken already frail bones and the quality of the harvested bone may not be sufficient to enhance the bone healing process. 8 Table of Contents In order to eliminate the need for additional painful surgery, physicians also use allograft or xenograft. Allograft and xenograft use bone tissue harvested from a human cadaver or animal, respectively. These materials come in various forms, including chips, blocks and particulate, which allows physicians flexibility in using them to treat injured or defective bone. Allograft and xenograft bone is of varying quality depending on the donor, the process and techniques used to prepare the bone tissue and the facility at which it is processed. Using cadaver or animal bone may pose some risk of transmitting infectious diseases to the patient and although this risk is currently thought to be very low, it remains a concern among some patients. Finally, the bio-activity level of allograft bone can vary substantially and may be insufficient to assist the healing process. Given the limitations associated with autografts, allografts and xenografts, synthetic bone grafts have become popular in recent years. Physicians use synthetic bone or tissue graft products, like calcium sulfate and tricalcium phosphate, as filler or scaffold material that can be packed into voids or gaps resulting from defects or fractures. Like allografts, synthetic bone grafts also are available in various forms. Synthetic bone grafts provide a physical mesh-work or scaffold that helps guide tissue repair, but do not contain bio-active molecules that stimulate the healing process. These materials therefore provide only a passive, physical matrix or template for tissue growth without providing any direct biological stimulus to accelerate healing. Recent studies have demonstrated the benefits of using orthobiologicals to treat orthopedic injuries and defects. Clinicians have focused on therapies that are osteostimulatory, meaning that they lead to or induce bone regeneration. For example, platelet-rich plasma systems (“PRPs”) involve taking blood from a patient, concentrating the platelet cells from the blood and activating the cells to release growth factors, including PDGF. Because PRPs contain growth factors, they stimulate tissue regeneration. While PRPs do not involve the painful graft harvesting associated with autografts, the process to produce the platelet/blood concentrate is time-consuming and requires specialized equipment. Furthermore, the results are unpredictable because the concentrations of growth factors present in the platelet preparations vary from patient to patient. A recent advance in the therapy for spine and orthopedic repair is the use of bone morphogenic proteins (“BMPs”). BMPs have the ability to stimulate new bone formation by causing the differentiation of stem cells into osteoblasts, which initiate bone formation. The use of BMPs does not involve the painful graft harvesting associated with autograft. BMPs have provided tremendous value to the spinal repair industry as they help speed recovery time and improve medical outcomes. Surgeons have proven to be fast adopters of these technologies, generating sales of BMPs estimated to exceed $800 million in 2008 according to analysts’ reports. Despite these benefits, BMPs have a number of disadvantages, including their high cost (approximately $4,500 per spine fusion level), their limited approved indications for use and their potential for inappropriate bone formation. In particular, unwanted bone growth near nerves or in other areas outside the targeted sites has been observed. Theses adverse reactions have led to additional corrective surgeries. In addition, complications were associated with swelling of neck and throat tissue, which resulted in compression of the airway and/or neurological structures of the neck. In addition, in some cases these complications resulted in difficulty swallowing, breathing or speaking. Because the mechanism of action of PDGF is very different from that of BMP, we do not believe that these types of complications will occur with our product candidates, and none of these types of complications have been observed during any of our clinical studies or with GEM 21S. There is only one BMP available in the United States which has been granted FDA pre-market approval for use, but in limited indications including spinal fusions, tibial fractures, sinus augmentations and localized jaw augmentations for defects associated with tooth extraction. A second BMP has been allowed in the U.S. market by the FDA under a humanitarian device exemption while it awaits pre-market approval. While some current therapies for bone defects, such as BMPs, have yielded good results in specific indications, most have exhibited only modest success. Many of the currently available therapies do not stimulate the healing process and therefore do not address the needs of patients with impaired or delayed healing such as smokers, people with osteoporosis or diabetes and the elderly. Because of these limitations, clinicians continue to seek more cost-effective and predictable regenerative therapies that are easy to use and lead to faster tissue regeneration in a greater number of indications. 9 Table of Contents The following table summarizes some of the advantages and disadvantages of current therapies for bone disorders and injuries, including our product candidates discussed above in “— Product Candidates.” Therapy Advantages Disadvantages Autograft Provides scaffold. Stimulates bone growth. High chance of incorporation. Additional surgery required. Pain at harvest site. Risk of infection. Longer recovery time. Limited supply per patient. Potentially lower potency material in elderly or compromised patients. Allograft/Xenograft Provides scaffold. Does not require painful graft harvesting. May stimulate bone growth. Available in various forms. Inconsistent quality and sourcing leading to variable growth stimulation. Potential contamination / disease transmission. Potential for immune response. Synthetics Abundant supply. Provides scaffold. Does not require painful graft harvesting. Available in various forms. Longer healing time versus autograft. Limited growth stimulation. Lacks bio-active proteins. PRP systems Stimulates bone growth. Concentrates natural bio-active proteins. Does not require painful graft harvesting. Increased procedure time. Requires specialized equipment. Variable quality. Requires scaffold. Technique dependent. BMPs Stimulates bone growth. Bio-active osteoinductive proteins. Does not require painful graft harvesting. Limited indications approved. High cost. Limited or no effect on soft tissue healing. Potential for inappropriate bone formation and other serious complications. Augment and other BMTI product candidates Stimulates bone growth. Bio-active osteo-stimulatory protein. Broad wound healing activity. Does not require painful graft harvesting. Provides scaffold. No inappropriate bone formation. Higher cost than currently available synthetics. Limited early data in orthopedic clinical trials. Limited initial indications for GEM 21S. Current Therapies for Cartilage, Ligament and Tendon Injuries Cartilage is the soft tissue in the joints of the body that acts as a shock absorber and lubricant during motion of the joint. In the knee there are two types of cartilage, the meniscus and the articular cartilage. Unlike other tissues in the body, cartilage cannot naturally repair itself. In 2003, over 3.4 million patients were diagnosed with injuries to the cartilage and meniscus in the knee, many of which were procedures on patients who had previously had surgery for the same or a related condition, demonstrating the need for more reliable and predictive treatments. Newer techniques, such as autologous chondrocyte implantation (“ACI”) that attempt to repair small defects to cartilage have shown promise in small studies. ACI requires two surgeries over a period of eight weeks and requires the cultivation of the patient’s own cartilage cells in a laboratory, which results in a very high treatment cost. Procedures such as viscosupplementation, the injection of a hyaluronan (a molecule in the matrix of many connective tissues) based liquid into the knee joint, provide temporary pain relief but have limited ability to heal the tissue. Ligaments and tendons are soft tissue structures that connect bone to bone and muscle to bone, respectively. Injuries to these structures can be treated conservatively, relying on the structures to scar down sufficiently to be stable, or with more aggressive surgical repair. Ligaments and tendons that do not heal adequately can lead to more serious arthritic changes in the joint. The treatment of these soft tissue injuries is limited to reattachment/mechanical fixation of the structures, with or without autograft or allograft tissues. 10 Table of Contents The BioMimetic Advantage We believe that we are positioned to improve upon a variety of existing therapies through the addition of a biologically active growth factor that will stimulate tissue regeneration and repair, thereby providing faster and more predictable healing. Further, we believe that we will be in a position to open new orthopedic product segments that address underserved or unmet clinical needs, particularly in advancing the treatment of injuries to bone, cartilage, ligaments and tendons. We believe that our pipeline of product candidates will achieve widespread market acceptance and strong market penetration by providing significant advantages compared to existing therapies. Our lead product candidate (Augment) and our other product candidates are based on the FDA-approved component rhPDGF that is combined with synthetic or natural scaffold materials, such as ß-TCP, which have a history of demonstrated safety and efficacy in previous uses. We believe that our lead product candidates provide the following advantages: • Applications across multiple musculoskeletal indications. We believe that our product candidates have applications to treat multiple orthopedic and musculoskeletal injuries and defects, including those of bone, cartilage, ligaments and tendons. This broad spectrum of activity is due to our use of rhPDGF, which has been shown to stimulate multiple cellular and biochemical processes important for the repair of these tissues. • Key stimulator of wound healing. Our product candidates all incorporate rhPDGF, a bio-active protein that is a key mediator of wound healing and tissue regeneration. Naturally occurring PDGF, released by platelets at sites of tissue injury, stimulates a series of cellular and biochemical events that are critical for tissue repair to occur. Bio-active proteins, such as rhPDGF, are absent from synthetic bone void fillers and are present in only limited amounts in allografts and xenografts. • Combined benefits of both the medical device and drug components. Our product candidates are regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products, which combine the benefits of existing devices, such as ß-TCP, that provide a physical framework or scaffold that facilitates and guides tissue growth, with the stimulatory action of the bio-active protein, rhPDGF. • Lower potential for adverse side effects than allograft and less pain and shorter surgical procedure time than autograft. Because Augment does not rely on human tissue, the perceived risk of transmitting infectious disease from the human source, which is present for allograft, is eliminated. Additionally, unlike the procurement of autograft from the patient, which requires an additional surgical procedure in order to harvest the tissue graft, and thus increases post-operative pain, procedure time and the risk of infection for the patient, Augment does not require painful graft harvesting. • Proven safety profile. ß-TCP and rhPDGF, components of our product candidates, are both FDA cleared and approved for marketing in other applications and have extensive safety histories. Both ß-TCP and rhPDGF are the primary components of our previously developed product, GEM 21S, which has been approved and marketed in the United States and Canada for use in periodontal indications since November 2005 and June 2006, respectively. ß-TCP is a purified, porous form of calcium phosphate similar to natural bone mineral and has been used in orthopedics for over 20 years. • Reliable, scalable manufacturing process. We have a manufacturing supply agreement covering the active ingredient rhPDGF of our product candidates. We source rhPDGF from a division of the Novartis Group known as Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics (“Novartis”). Novartis is also the sole supplier of the rhPDGF used in Regranex®. Novartis manufactures rhPDGF in yeast cells, thereby providing an increased safety profile over competing products derived from human or animal tissues. This manufacturing process provides a consistent product and scalable production, unlike the variability in quality of allografts, xenografts and platelet rich plasmas (“PRP”). Additionally, we have multiple business relationships that cover the different matrices that we combine with rhPDGF as part of our regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products. 11 Table of Contents • Potential to address substantial unmet clinical needs. We are focused on the development of products that treat unmet clinical needs in large market opportunities. To date there are limited therapeutic treatments that directly and reproducibly stimulate healing processes in the areas in which we are focusing. This is particularly true for repair of certain types of bone fractures and in the treatment of sports injuries. Strategy Our objective is to be a leader in the development and commercialization of novel, biologically active regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products to treat musculoskeletal injuries and conditions affecting bones, tendons, ligaments and cartilage in the orthopedic, spine and sports injury markets. The key elements of our strategy are to: • Develop and commercialize regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products that are superior to current medical devices for the treatment of injuries and defects of the musculoskeletal system. We intend to use our proprietary technologies and know-how in both recombinant protein therapeutics and orthopedic devices to address unmet medical needs in orthopedics and sports injury indications. • Focus on products with a rapid and cost-effective time to market that utilize well characterized components. We were able to develop GEM 21S from inception to U.S. marketing approval in less than five years. We have a track record of efficient product development that relies upon components used in products previously authorized for marketing by the FDA, and accessing those components through existing manufacturers. For GEM 21S, we referenced existing safety histories on the component products in our own regulatory filings and thus believe we were able to further shorten the product development cycle. We will seek to repeat this process of using FDA-cleared or approved components in our subsequent product candidates. We cannot be certain, however, that this strategy will accelerate the regulatory approval process for our product candidates, or that we will obtain such approval. • Mitigate risks by leveraging our GEM 21S data and experience to accelerate development of our orthopedic product candidates. We believe the ability of GEM 21S to safely stimulate bone healing in chronically inflamed bone defects in the jaw resulting from periodontal diseases indicates the potential of Augment and our other product candidates, which, like GEM 21S, are based on rhPDGF and ß-TCP to stimulate bone growth in orthopedic indications. We believe that much of the data and experience generated as part of the GEM 21S clinical development will be useful in gaining the approval of our product candidates, including product manufacturing procedures and records, stability test results, analytical test methodology, pre-clinical and human safety test results and, potentially, efficacy information. • Maximize the value of our orthopedic and sports injury product candidates through control of distribution channels. We have retained all marketing and commercialization rights to our orthopedic and sports injury product candidates. In the United States, we plan to build a sales force utilizing independent representatives managed by an in-house sales management team and supported by employee product specialists. This will allow us to have an immediate impact in the market by leveraging existing surgeon relationships. Over time, we will transition through a hybrid independent-direct structure, ultimately evolving to a direct sales model. Outside the United States, we will utilize distributor relationships to enable product introduction and adoption in local markets. • Monetization of our orofacial therapeutic business to obtain additional funding for the development of our orthopedic and sports medicine product candidates. In January 2008, we completed a transaction with Luitpold Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Luitpold”) to sell them our remaining orofacial therapeutic business, including the rights to the downstream formulation, fill, finish, manufacturing and kitting of GEM 21S. As a result of this transaction, we have now further monetized our orofacial therapeutic business and received $30.0 million in cash, plus approximately $3.4 million in cash from the sale of existing GEM 21S inventory during 2008. We also expect to receive an additional $10.0 million in time-based milestone payments during 2009, as well as additional revenue from ongoing royalty payments based on net sales of GEM 21S and other products that Luitpold may develop that are based on adapting our technology to future 12 Table of Contents products in the orofacial therapeutic field. This transaction has enabled us to focus our expertise and future development efforts on our orthopedic and sports medicine product candidates, and has provided additional capital allowing us to aggressively advance our pipeline of orthopedic product candidates through clinical development and into commercialization. • Capitalize on the broad healing activity of rhPDGF. GEM 21S and all our initial regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product candidates utilize rhPDGF to enhance the activity of the device component, such as ß-TCP. rhPDGF stimulates cells responsible for the healing of bone, and also has been shown in animal and in vitro studies to stimulate cells responsible for the healing of cartilage, ligaments and tendons. By initially focusing our efforts on this single bio-active protein, we believe that we can efficiently leverage our expertise in this molecule to address multiple clinical indications with large market opportunities. Product Candidates and Target Indications The table below summarizes our current product candidates and the target indications for these product candidates that we are pursuing: Product Candidate Target Indication Orthopedic Augment Bone Graft Augment Injectable Bone Graft Open (surgical) fracture treatment Closed (non-surgical) fracture treatment Minimally invasive fracture treatment Spine TBD — under development Spine fusion Sports Injury Augment C Augment LT Cartilage repair Ligament and tendon repair The following summary sets forth certain key market opportunities for us and the corresponding product candidates. As detailed in the product development section below, we have advanced product candidates to clinical development for certain of these opportunities, and for others we are in pre-clinical development. Augment Bone Graft for Orthopedic and Spine Indications Open (surgical) Treatment of Fractures / Fusions. In recent years, there have been more than one million procedures annually in the United States involving fusions and corrective surgeries of the foot and ankle. Many of these procedures utilize a bone graft material to stimulate the healing of the bone following surgery. Open, surgical treatment of fractures of the long bones (femur, tibia, fibula, humerus, radius, ulna) accounts for approximately 630,000 additional surgical procedures in the United States annually. Surgeons frequently use bone graft in these procedures to fill voids and stimulate the wound healing process. Our goal is the achievement of approval of our product candidates for a broad range of bone grafting indications. To accomplish this goal, we are evaluating Augment in several clinical applications. Augment is similar to GEM 21S in that it combines a particulate ß-TCP with rhPDGF. We have received FDA clearance under the trade name OsteoMimetic for a proprietary ß-TCP, which is a component of our Augment product candidate, for orthopedic applications as a bone void filler when the void or gap is not intrinsic to the stability of the bone. Although we are currently not planning on marketing OsteoMimetic as a stand alone product, we believe the FDA clearance may support the regulatory review process for Augment. Closed (non-surgical) Treatment of Fractures. Approximately 11 million fractures per year in the United States of the radius, humerus, tibia, fibula and femur occur where the treatment relies upon closed, non-surgical treatment. Of these fractures, an estimated five to 10% have impaired or delayed healing due to patient specific factors such as smoking, diabetes and osteoporosis. We developed Augment Injectable for the minimally invasive surgical treatment of fractures as well as the treatment of fractures not requiring surgery. Augment Injectable combines rhPDGF with an injectable bone matrix. The product candidate can be injected through the skin into the fracture site, locally delivering rhPDGF to accelerate fracture repair. Closed fracture reduction procedures comprise the largest number of 13 Table of Contents orthopedic procedures today. According to hospital and outpatient procedural data, 2.8 million closed fracture procedures are performed per year. While a significant number of these fractures are treated with casts, we believe that a large number of patients who require longer healing times would benefit from our Augment Injectable product candidate. We have recently completed a pilot study in Sweden that further demonstrated the safety of the product for the treatment of distal radius fractures. Spine Fusions. In the United States, there are more than 500,000 spine fusion procedures performed each year for the treatment of degenerative disc disease (“DDD”) and other debilitating conditions of the spine. Virtually all of these procedures utilize autograft or a bone graft substitute to assist in the achievement of the fusion. BMPs, predominantly INFUSE, have been widely used in this application and have proven to be effective in the treatment of thoraco-lumbar fusions. However, BMPs were the subject of a July 1, 2008, FDA Public Health Notification “Life-threatening Complications Associated with Recombinant Human Bone Morphogenetic Protein in Cervical Spine Fusion.” The FDA Notification states that the FDA has received “at least 38 reports of complications during the last four years with the use of rhBMP in cervical spine fusion. These complications were associated with swelling of neck and throat tissue, which resulted in compression of the airway and/or neurological structures of the neck.” Cervical spine is a segment which represents nearly half of all spine fusions performed. We believe that there is an opportunity for one of our product candidates to fill this clinical need. Revision Total Joint Arthroplasty. Total joint arthroplasty is the definitive treatment for end stage arthritis in the hip and knee. In 2003, more than 800,000 joint replacement procedures were performed in the United States. Of these procedures, an estimated 70,000 were revision surgeries resulting from a failure or wearing out of the primary prosthesis. Revision hip and knee arthroplasty is often characterized by diminished bone and soft tissue structures supporting the implant. Surgeons will frequently use some type of bone graft as a void filler and a stimulus for the regeneration of bone. Even when the primary procedure used cement, the majority of revision procedures will be performed using a porous prosthesis, with the goal being to gain a biological interlock between the bone and the implant. We believe that a synthetic void filler that can help stimulate the biological interlock with the prosthesis could improve outcomes in these procedures. Product Candidates for Sports Injuries We use our platform technology to develop products which address unmet medical needs in sports injury applications, targeting cartilage, ligament and tendon repair and regeneration. Cartilage, ligament and tendon repair and regeneration represent significant unmet clinical needs. Each year there are over 22 million sports-related injuries in the United States, most of which are treated conservatively with rehabilitation techniques. Because of the lack of therapies that can stimulate healing and regenerate these tissues, many of these injuries will result in a degree of permanent impairment and chronic pain. Cartilage Injuries. Cartilage is the soft tissue in the joints of the body that acts as a shock absorber and lubricant during motion of the joint. Because damaged cartilage does not heal by itself and slowly breaks down over time, the result can lead to a complete wearing away of cartilage, leading to osteoarthritis. Currently, there are limited therapies to regenerate cartilage although a number of therapeutic and surgical methods are used to minimize the pain and disability from cartilage injuries. In 2007, an estimated 429,000 knee cartilage repair procedures were performed in the United States. In addition, in 2006, approximately 3.2 million injections of viscosupplementation were administered in the United States to treat cartilage defects. While these injections may reduce the pain associated with osteoarthritis for a limited time period, they do not stimulate the healing of the damaged cartilage. Ligaments and Tendon Injuries. Ligaments, the tissue structures that connect bone to bone, and tendons, the tissue structures that connect muscles to bone, are crucial to the biomechanical functions of the body. Injuries to ligaments and tendons are very common, and while typically these injuries can be treated conservatively with rehabilitative techniques, these injuries are often slow to heal or do not heal completely. Currently, there are limited therapeutic products that stimulate the healing and regeneration of ligament and tendon tissues. 14 Table of Contents Tendon injuries are a frequent source of visits to the orthopedic surgeon. In 2009 it is estimated that over 400,000 rotator cuff tendon injuries will lead to surgical intervention in the United States. As many as 94% of these surgical repairs will be non-healing or develop re-injury. Ligament tears, specifically tears of the anterior cruciate ligament (“ACL”), are most commonly associated with traumatic sports injuries. Minor tears are eligible for conservative treatment, but each year more than 400,000 knee ligament reconstruction procedures are performed. The poor healing ability of the ACL contributes to the frequency of these surgeries which often require additional surgical sites for harvesting donor tissue, resulting in increased patient pain, morbidity and operating room procedure time. Product Development Programs In pursuing the indications discussed above for our product candidates, we have implemented a variety of pre-clinical and clinical development programs. We believe that these development programs will ultimately support the regulatory approval of our product candidates for certain of our target indications discussed above. Product Development Programs for Orthopedic and Spine Indications Orthopedic Clinical Development. We currently have seven clinical trials that have been completed or that are ongoing, which seek to establish the safety, clinical utility and/or effectiveness of Augment and our other product candidates in certain of our target indications discussed above. In particular, the following studies have been completed or are currently in progress: (1) North American Augment Pilot Trial — Foot and Ankle Fusions. In February 2006, we initiated a feasibility clinical trial with Augment for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions. The protocol for this study included 20 patients at three centers with nine months follow-up. The study was designed to compare the use of Augment to the use of autograft, which is bone harvested from another location within the patient’s own body, to facilitate fusion in a foot and ankle procedure. We completed enrollment of the 20 patients in July 2006. In December 2006, we announced interim results for this study, and we updated those results in July 2007. The reported data indicated that the Augment treatment appears comparable to autograft for the stimulation of bone healing (fusion), without the pain and morbidity associated with the harvesting of the autograft. (2) North American Augment Pivotal Study — Foot and Ankle Fusions. In June 2007, we received unconditional FDA approval for a North American pivotal clinical trial evaluating the safety and effectiveness of Augment to stimulate bone healing in foot and ankle fusions. On December 31, 2008, enrollment in this clinical trial was closed with a total of 436 patients enrolled. This clinical trial is a randomized, controlled, non-inferiority study comparing Augment to autograft, the current gold standard for bone grafting in this type of surgery. The trial was designed to enroll 396 patients; however, enrollment continued through December 31, 2008 to accommodate those additional patients who had already consented into the study and scheduled for surgery. We plan to file a modular pre-market approval (“PMA”) application for Augment beginning in the spring of 2009. A modular submission breaks the PMA document into three sections or “modules” filed at different times that together become a complete application. The modular approach allows the applicant to potentially resolve any concerns noted by FDA earlier in the review process than would occur with a traditional PMA application, and may ultimately shorten the review and approval timeline. The pre-clinical section of the modular PMA is expected to be submitted in March 2009. The quality and manufacturing section is on schedule to be filed in the spring of 2009 allowing time for the FDA to review this data in advance of the clinical data. We expect to file the clinical data with the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2009 as the last element of our modular PMA application. (3) Canadian Augment Pilot and Registration Trial — Foot and Ankle Fusions. In January 2006, we initiated a 20 patient open-label pilot study at three clinical centers to demonstrate the safety and clinical utility of Augment to stimulate bone regeneration in the treatment of foot and ankle fusions. The trial protocol called for a nine month patient follow-up. We successfully completed enrollment in this study in April 2006, and based on the preliminary data, in May 2006, we received authorization from Health Canada to expand the study from the original 20 patients up to 60 patients. We have also completed enrollment of the additional patients, and in September 2007, we completed a nine month follow-up of these patients. All 15 Table of Contents patients in the study received Augment in lieu of autograft to assist the fusion procedure. Study results were measured against previous fusion studies from the literature where autograft was used to augment fusion. In December 2007, we announced a summary of the results from this study. The data demonstrate a rate of fusion which appears to be comparable to autograft as measured by CT scans and radiographs, without the pain and morbidity associated with the harvesting of the autograft. Using these results, together with data on GEM 21S and pilot data on Augment in the United States and Sweden, in the second quarter of 2008, we filed a Device License Application (“DLA”) with Health Canada. The DLA submission is required in Canada for approval of the commercialization of Augment as a medical device for use in the treatment of foot and ankle fusions. We received some initial questions on the filing that we responded to in September 2008. We have now received a letter from Health Canada setting forth what we believe are all remaining open issues on the DLA. We believe that we can address these issues, and we anticipate a final decision on the DLA around the middle of 2009. (4) EU Augment Registration Trial — Foot and Ankle Fusions. In May 2007, we initiated a clinical study in the European Union (“EU”), to evaluate Augment for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions. In November 2008, we completed enrollment with a total enrollment of 108 patients. This study is an open label trial and was designed to enroll up to 125 patients. The assumption when designing the study was that among a population of foot and ankle fusion patients, we would likely enroll 75 (60%) hindfoot/ankle fusion patients (the North American indication) and 50 (40%) midfoot fusion patients. However, when we reached 108 patients, we had exceeded the hindfoot/ankle target of 75 patients, and decided to cease enrollment. All other aspects of the original study protocol will continue unchanged. We expect that the data from the study will be released in the first quarter of 2010 and will support EU and other worldwide filings on Augment. (5) EU Augment Pilot Trial — Distal Radius (Wrist) Fractures. We have completed patient enrollment in a pilot clinical trial in the EU (Sweden) for the evaluation of Augment for the treatment of distal radius fractures requiring surgical treatment. This pilot trial includes 19 patients at one center with six months follow-up, and is designed as a randomized controlled trial evaluating distal radius fractures treated with external fixation combined with Augment versus external fixation alone. In January 2007, we announced interim results for this study that suggest that Augment accelerated bone regeneration as measured by CT scans. The preliminary results demonstrate accelerated bone regeneration at earlier time points in patients treated with Augment combined with external fixation compared to patients treated with external fixation alone. (6) Canadian Augment Injectable Pilot Trial — Foot and Ankle Fusions. We completed enrollment in a pilot study in December 2007 for the use of Augment Injectable for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions. Although Augment Injectable is designed as an injectable for use in closed treatment, this study utilizes essentially the same protocol as our Augment foot and ankle study in Canada, with Augment Injectable being used in an open procedure. The trial is an open-label study with seven of the 10 patients considered to be high risk for poor healing as a result of co-morbidities. The results of the study demonstrated that all 10 patients achieved complete clinical success by six months after surgery. In addition, analysis of CT scans at three to four months after surgery showed that 90 percent of the patients had achieved radiographic fusion. (7) EU Augment Injectable Pilot Trial — Distal Radius Fractures. In January 2007, we initiated a pilot clinical study in Sweden to investigate the use of Augment Injectable in patients being treated for fractures of the distal radius (wrist). A total of 21 patients have been enrolled in the study, consisting of 11 patients treated with Augment Injectable combined with external fixation and 10 patients treated with external fixation alone. Enrollment in the study was completed in December 2007. The results of data analysis shows patients treated with Augment Injectable demonstrated earlier bone formation at three and six weeks as measured by CT scans. The six month evaluation of “complete bone fill,” defined as more than 75 percent fill of the fracture gap, was 100 percent for Augment Injectable patients, as compared to 82 percent for the patients treated with external fixation alone. The product candidate was demonstrated to be safe, with no reported adverse events related to the study devices. With the studies outlined above, together with data from our clinical development program for GEM 21S, we now have clinical data for three anatomic sites (the foot and ankle, the distal radius, and the jaw) which suggest that our platform technology stimulates bone regeneration. In addition, to date there have been no product related Serious Adverse Events (“SAE”) attributed to Augment or Augment Injectable related to any of the clinical studies outlined above. 16 Table of Contents We believe that the results from our three studies for Augment and the ability of GEM 21S to stimulate bone formation in jaw bone defects suggest the potential for our product candidates to be effective in stimulating new bone growth in a variety of orthopedic applications, including our target indications that are outlined above. Product Development Programs for Sports Medicine Indications Based upon the demonstrated biology from both in vivo and in vitro studies which indicate that rhPDGF can stimulate the various structural cell types that make up cartilage, ligaments and tendons, we believe that rhPDGF has the potential to be an effective therapy for the repair of these tissue types. Cartilage, ligament and tendon tissues are composed of cells of mesenchymal origin. rhPDGF has been shown to stimulate the recruitment and proliferation of both the mature structural cell types of these tissues as well as the recruitment and proliferation of undifferentiated mesenchymal stem cells, causing a localized increase in the number of these cells at a site of injury. Once present, the stem cells can be differentiated into the appropriate cell type for the tissue undergoing repair. These can include differentiation into chondrocytes for cartilage repair, or tenocytes and fibroblasts for tendon and ligament repair. Following on the demonstrated ability of rhPDGF to stimulate tissue repair in the periodontal space, where the regeneration of both bone and ligament tissues are required for the restoration of normal tissue structure, we believe that rhPDGF is a candidate for development in the sports medicine area where these types of tissues are similarly involved. We have started pre-clinical studies to evaluate matrix materials that can be combined with rhPDGF for tendon, ligament and cartilage repair applications. The matrix materials under evaluation are being selected to specifically target the tissue type to be treated. In light of the present phase of research and development, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for or commercializing our sports medicine product candidates. Scientific Background PDGF Family of Growth Factors Platelet-derived Growth Factor (“PDGF”) is a family of growth factors which contains five different members that are found naturally in the body. Our platform technology is based on a synthetic version of the BB form of PDGF (“PDGF-BB”) which is a homodimer of two separate B-chains that are covalently linked together through disulfide bonds. The PDGF-BB that is used in our product candidates is manufactured using recombinant DNA technology in a yeast expression system. The gene that codes for the human sequence of the PDGF B-chain is inserted into yeast cells. The gene is then activated to cause the production of the PDGF B-chain protein. The protein is secreted from the yeast cell into its culture media, and the protein purified from the media to homogeneity. There are two PDGF receptors that are present on the surface of target cells. Depending upon the number and ratio of the receptors present on a cell, the cell will be more or less responsive to the different PDGF family members. Recombinant human Platelet-derived Growth Factor (“rhPDGF-BB”) has the ability to bind with high affinity to both receptors, providing it with unique properties within the PDGF family. Depending on the location of an injury, different cell types that respond to rhPDGF-BB are stimulated. Role of PDGF in Tissue Repair Tissue repair at injury sites occurs as a result of a complex series of events. For successful tissue repair to take place, the appropriate cell types must be recruited to the injured site in a coordinated fashion. One of the proteins that is critical for orchestrating this process is PDGF. PDGF stimulates a wide spectrum of biological activities that places it at the top of the wound healing cascade. PDGF is responsible for stimulating a variety of cellular events critical for the initiation and progression of tissue repair. These include attracting cells into a wound site and stimulating their replication. Depending upon the location of the injury, different cell types respond to PDGF. Animal and in vitro studies have demonstrated that cell types that are stimulated include bone forming cells, cartilage forming cells, MSCs which are bone and cartilage-lineage forming cells, and fibroblasts which are tendon and ligament forming cells. Published animal and in vitro studies demonstrate that PDGF may also work together with other growth factors to enhance the formation of new blood vessels by stimulating vascular smooth muscle cells, a cell type critical for the formation of blood vessels. Additionally, PDGF promotes 17 Table of Contents the release of other growth factors and signaling molecules that accelerate the natural healing process. As a result of its ability to stimulate a multi-faceted set of activities, we believe PDGF plays an integral role in initiating the tissue repair process in the different clinical indications that we are pursuing. To support the stimulatory properties of rhPDGF, as part of our platform technology we combine the protein with resorbable three-dimensional scaffolds that are specifically tailored for the tissue being treated. This approach provides both the matrix critical to support the in-growth of the appropriate cell types, while providing for the release of rhPDGF in a localized manner under controlled delivery conditions. It also combines the benefits of delivering a stimulatory growth factor with the structural requirements of a synthetic scaffold to support cell migration and tissue regeneration at the wound site. GEM 21S Clinical Results Validate our Platform Technology We have validated our platform technology, which combines rhPDGF with resorbable scaffold materials, through the successful development of GEM 21S for use in periodontal bone and tissue regeneration. We believe that the FDA and Health Canada approval of GEM 21S provides proof of concept and suggests that our platform technology promotes tissue regeneration and will apply to a broad array of musculoskeletal applications, such as orthopedic, spine and sports injury applications. In initial human clinical studies, we tested the use of rhPDGF with allograft to stimulate tissue healing. Nine months after placing the test material around teeth in patients with severe periodontal disease, the teeth and adjacent jawbone were excised and we analyzed the teeth and accompanying tissue for new bone formation. The data demonstrated that rhPDGF treatment caused significant new bone formation adjacent to the tooth root. Based on this data, we conducted a 180 patient double-blind, randomized controlled trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of GEM 21S for the regeneration of bone and adjacent tissues in the treatment of periodontal defects. The study contained three groups: two groups were given different doses of rhPDGF used in combination with ß-TCP and the third group, the active control, was given ß-TCP plus a buffer (i.e., no rhPDGF). We included only subjects with advanced bone defects requiring surgical treatment in the study. The patients received standard periodontal surgery followed by the placement of the test compound. The results of the clinical study demonstrate that GEM 21S treatment led to a significant increase in healing of the bone defect in the periodontal lesion. Additionally, GEM 21S treatment expedited soft tissue attachment gain at three months following surgery (CAL gain) and decreased gum tissue recession, further demonstrating the efficacy of GEM 21S. The results of the clinical study further demonstrated that GEM 21S treatment led to statistically significant benefits in bone growth and healing of the periodontal bone defects compared to the active control group that received the ß-TCP, without the addition of rhPDGF. There were no serious adverse events during the study that were directly attributed to the use of GEM 21S and no statistically significant difference in the incidence of adverse events between the treatment and control groups. In summary, the results of the pivotal clinical study demonstrated that GEM 21S is a safe and effective treatment, leading to acceleration of healing and the stimulation of new bone formation. Divestiture of Orofacial Therapeutic Business In January 2008, we completed the sale of our orofacial therapeutic business to Luitpold. This sale was pursuant to a December 2007 asset purchase agreement with Luitpold. As part of this transaction, Luitpold acquired the rights to the downstream formulation, fill, finish, manufacturing and kitting of GEM 21S. We had previously outsourced all of these operations, and have facilitated the transfer of these operations to Luitpold. Luitpold also acquired all rights to the GEM trademark family, and certain rights to adapt our future orthopedic and sports medicine products to dental applications. Luitpold is responsible for all research and development costs related to all future products in the dental and cranio-maxillofacial field based upon rhPDGF-BB, including GEM ONJ, which was developed to treat osteonecrosis of the jaw (the degeneration of bone in the jaw), for which we had received orphan drug status. Luitpold was also granted certain rights to negotiate on other growth factors and product improvements that we license from third parties. Through our existing commercial supply agreement with Novartis, we will remain the sole source supplier of bulk rhPDGF-BB to Luitpold. In addition, the U.S. and Canadian regulatory approvals, including the GEM 21S PMA, have been or will be transferred to Luitpold, and Luitpold now has 18 Table of Contents responsibility for all future filings. The rights to the GEM 21S EU regulatory approval will be transferred once approval is obtained. We have agreed not to compete with Luitpold in the orofacial therapeutic business for a specified period of time. We were obligated under the asset purchase agreement to provide certain transitional services to facilitate the transfer of technology and regulatory approvals. With the exception of our continued efforts to obtain regulatory approval of GEM 21S in Europe, we have now satisfied those obligations. We may continue to provide additional transitional services to Luitpold for a fee. The asset purchase agreement also includes indemnification provisions under which each party indemnifies the other party for certain losses. In addition to the 2007 asset purchase agreement, at the transaction’s closing in January 2008, we entered into the following ancillary agreements with Luitpold: 1. Amended and Restated Exclusive Sublicense Agreement – This agreement supersedes the December 2003 exclusive sublicense agreement between the parties and grants Luitpold exclusive rights to utilize intellectual property we license from ZymoGenetics and Harvard in periodontal, oral, and cranio-maxillofacial indications, as well as veterinary indications. The term of this agreement extends until 2026. 2. Exclusive License Agreement – This agreement sets forth Luitpold’s exclusive rights to utilize intellectual property we currently own or which we may develop or license in the future in applications above the neck in humans and in veterinary applications. This agreement and Luitpold’s royalty obligations will expire upon the later of the date when the licensed patents have all expired or December 31, 2026. The exclusive license agreement also includes sale restrictions under which we are only permitted to sell products containing the licensed technology, directly or indirectly, to entities who do not have a valid dental or veterinary license, or equivalent outside of the United States. Luitpold is only permitted to sell products containing the licensed technology, directly or indirectly, to any individual who has a valid dental or veterinary license, or equivalent qualification outside of the United States. Luitpold is permitted, however, certain limited exceptions to this sales restriction in the United States and Canada for any product for which it obtains regulatory approval for a craniofacial indication. In addition, we have agreed to a non-compete provision that provides that until six months following the expiration of Luitpold’s royalty obligation, we will not directly or indirectly, sell or distribute any licensed products for applications above the neck in humans or in any veterinary application. If we are acquired by a third party, this non-compete provision will only prevent the acquirer from selling rhPDGF-BB containing products. Under the exclusive license agreement, we also grant Luitpold a nontransferable right of first negotiation to apply certain new technology to applications above the neck in humans or veterinary applications. This new technology includes new growth factor products and new matrix materials that we develop that are subject to third party license agreements we enter into prior to a certain date. 3. Agreement Terminating the Manufacturing and Supply Agreement - This agreement terminates our 2003 manufacturing and supply agreement with Luitpold, which obligated Luitpold to purchase all of its requirements for GEM 21S from us and we were obligated to meet these requirements to the extent they were consistent with Luitpold’s forecasts. 4. Agreement Terminating the Research, Development and Marketing Agreement – This agreement terminates our 2003 research, development and marketing agreement, which outlined our obligations to Luitpold to support its marketing of products subject to the 2003 manufacturing and supply agreement and the 2003 exclusive sublicense agreement. However, under this agreement we continue to seek EU regulatory approval for GEM 21S, and are obligated to transfer ownership of that approval to Luitpold once it is obtained. In addition, Luitpold remains obligated to pay us a $10.0 million milestone payment following the approval. The payment must be made within thirty days of our executing the necessary documents to transfer the approval to Luitpold. 5. Trademark License and Concurrent Use Agreement – This agreement granted us the royalty-free right to continue to use GEM family trademarks during a transition period that expired on January 4, 2009, and granted us a royalty-free perpetual license to use the GEM family trademarks on our website and in investor and public relations materials referencing Luitpold’s products and our historical development work. 19 Table of Contents 6. Supply Agreement — This agreement sets forth the terms under which we will supply Luitpold with bulk supply of rhPDGF for use in manufacturing commercial products within the dental and cranio-maxillofacial fields, which Luitpold is obligated to purchase exclusively from us until the end of 2018. There are no minimum purchase requirements, and the annual product prices vary depending on our average price that we pay to Novartis. Luitpold is also obligated to pay a handling charge. The agreement will expire upon the expiration of the 2008 exclusive license agreement and may be terminated under certain circumstances. Unless earlier terminated, the agreement automatically renews at the end of the initial term for consecutive one year periods unless either party terminates the agreement by written notice at least two years prior to the renewal date. Orthopedic Scientific Advisory Board We have established an orthopedic scientific advisory board that brings expertise in orthopedics, as well as FDA experience. During 2008, there were two meetings of the orthopedic scientific advisory board. We consult individual members of our scientific advisory board separately approximately once each quarter on clinical and pre-clinical study design, product and product candidate formulation, clinical indications and on all applications of tissue engineering, focusing on orthopedic indications. We pay consulting fees, including stock option grants, to members of our scientific advisory board for the services they provide to us, in addition to reimbursing them for incurred expenses. The amounts vary depending on the nature of the services. We paid to or on behalf of the current members of our scientific advisory boards aggregate consulting fees and reimbursements of $52,664, $424,290 and $297,137 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, we granted options to purchase an aggregate of 5,000, 12,500 and 34,050 shares of our common stock to current members of our scientific advisory boards in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The current members of our orthopedic scientific advisory board are: Name Professional affiliation Gary Friedlaender, M.D. Director of BioMimetic; Chairman of BioMimetic’s Orthopedic Scientific Advisory Board; Wayne O. Southwick Professor of Orthopaedics and Professor of Pathology, Chair of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, Yale University School of Medicine Edward Akelman, M.D. Professor and Vice Chairman, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Department of Orthopedics; Chief, Division of Hand, Upper Extremity and Microvascular Surgery, Rhode Island Hospital Arnold Caplan, Ph.D. Director of Skeletal Research Center and Professor of Biology, Case Western Reserve University Michael Ehrlich, M.D. Vincent Zecchino Professor and Chairman, Department of Orthopedics, the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University; Surgeon-in-Chief, Rhode Island and Miriam Hospital Jeffrey Hollinger, D.D.S., Ph.D. Professor of Biological Sciences and Biomedical Engineering and Director, Bone Tissue Engineering Center, Carnegie Mellon University Joseph Lane, M.D. Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, Assistant Dean, Medical Students, Weill Cornell Medical College; Chief, Metabolic Bone Disease Service, Hospital for Special Surgery; Attending, Orthopedics, New York-Presbyterian Hospital John Mathis, M.D., M.Sc. Medical Director, The Centers for Advanced Imaging, Roanoke, Virginia 20 Table of Contents Sales, Marketing and Distribution In order to sell our orthopedic products in the United States, we intend to establish a network of independent agents who will represent our products with orthopedic surgeon customers. These representatives will be selected based on their experience in selling orthopedic products used in the operating room, along with their familiarity with foot and ankle and bone grafting surgeries. The agency network will be managed by a company sales management team and will be supported by company employed product specialists, who will train the sales force and provide product education for the surgeon customers. We expect that by the end of the first year of sales in the United States, we will have a 100 person sales force representing our initial orthopedic product in the market. Outside the United States, we intend to employ distributors to represent our products with orthopedic surgeons. These distributors will be selected on the basis of their existing business relationships in the orthopedic field, along with the sales force and distribution capabilities to effectively penetrate the market with the Augment product line. Furthermore, we will rely on these distributors to manage physical distribution, customer service and billing services for our international customers. Manufacturing We have developed a network of suppliers, manufacturers, and contract service providers to provide sufficient quantity of our product candidates through the development and clinical testing phases. We have signed a manufacturing supply agreement with Novartis covering the bioactive component of our product candidates, rhPDGF. Novartis’s rhPDGF is used as a component in two FDA approved or cleared products (GEM 21S and Regranex) and is, therefore, manufactured in accordance with all applicable regulatory quality standards. We also have signed an agreement with Kensey Nash for development and supply of specific scaffolds for use in orthopedic and sports medicine applications. These agreements provide us with the key constituents of our lead product candidates. Following a similar supply chain strategy we used successfully for the GEM 21S product, we use contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for our clinical orthopedic product candidate kits. Pyramid Laboratories, Inc. performs the aseptic vial filling of the rhPDGF component. Penn Pharmaceutical Services, Ltd. produces the filled ß-TCP cup and produces the final kit assembly. Isotron plc sterilizes the cups. We and AAI Development, Inc. perform the final product testing. Our current facility in Franklin, Tennessee, consisting of approximately 32,000 square feet, provides office, research and development and quality control space. That facility is currently leased from Noblegene Development, LLC (“Noblegene”) under a lease agreement that was effective as of January 1, 2007, which replaced in its entirety our previous lease with Noblegene dated April 2004, as amended in July 2005. In August 2007, we entered into another lease agreement with Noblegene on a second building. This August 2007 lease is for approximately 30,000 square feet of space in a new building to be built in the same complex as our headquarters in Franklin, Tennessee. We intend to utilize the new space as a good manufacturing practices (“GMP”) manufacturing facility and will move certain of our manufacturing operations to the new space once it is completed. This new facility will provide space to meet our current and projected needs for certain aspects of our manufacturing and product release testing for our orthopedic and sports medicine product candidates. In addition, it will provide for future expansion of office, lab, or manufacturing space and capabilities for other product candidates that we are developing. Once the facility is operational we may continue to utilize third party suppliers for certain aspects of our manufacturing operation, including bulk ß-TCP and rhPDGF production, ß-TCP cup filling, component and final kit sterilization and distribution. We anticipate that the building shell will be complete in late 2009, and the build out will begin shortly thereafter. In order to qualify the facility as a GMP manufacturing facility, the build out must be complete, the utility systems, process and testing equipment must be installed and qualified, regulatory filings must be assembled and filed, and regulatory agency inspections must be passed prior to receiving approval. We anticipate that this process will take up to 24 months, and we expect the facility will be approved for commercial operations in 2011. 21 Table of Contents Our Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) is a former partner in Noblegene but maintained an ownership interest at the time we entered into both lease agreements. In March 2008, our CEO sold his ownership interest back to Noblegene. Since the owner of Noblegene is a brother-in-law of our CEO’s wife, Noblegene continues to be a related party. Supply Agreements Novartis/Chiron In July 2004, we entered into a commercial supply agreement with Chiron Corporation (now Novartis) that will permit us to obtain bulk supply of rhPDGF for use in manufacturing products for commercial sale. Under the terms of the agreement, Novartis will exclusively supply us with rhPDGF for use in certain periodontal and orthopedic applications. We are obligated to purchase minimum specified quantities of rhPDGF. Under the agreement, the annual product prices we are obligated to pay vary depending on the quantity of rhPDGF we order. The agreement covers a seven-year term and is cancelable under certain circumstances. Unless earlier terminated, the agreement automatically renews at the end of the initial term for consecutive one year periods unless either party terminates the agreement by written notice at least two years prior to the renewal date. If Novartis terminates the agreement, it is required to provide us with a minimum supply of rhPDGF during a transition period and to transfer to us the necessary manufacturing technology enabling us to set up an alternative source of rhPDGF. Kensey Nash In June 2005, we entered into a Development, Manufacturing and Supply Agreement with Kensey Nash to develop commercial products using specific scaffolds manufactured and supplied by Kensey Nash for use in orthopedic and sports medicine applications. Under the agreement, Kensey Nash will exclusively manufacture and supply the scaffold materials for us and we will be responsible for final formulation, fill and finish activities. We are responsible for obtaining U.S. and foreign regulatory approvals for any resulting products. We are required to commercialize any resulting products in the United States within 12 months of receipt of FDA approval. We have the exclusive right to distribute and sell the resulting products worldwide. In addition, we agreed to pay royalties to Kensey Nash based on net sales of commercial products worldwide for the term of the agreement. The agreement covers a 10-year term following the commercialization of a product, with two automatic two-year extensions, unless either party provides notice not to extend. If Kensey Nash elects not to extend the agreement, it is obligated to continue to supply us with predefined amounts of products for a limited time beyond the agreement’s expiration. The agreement terminates if we do not make our first commercial sale of a product developed under the agreement within seven years. We paid Kensey Nash an initial payment on the effective date of the agreement. We made a second payment after we agreed to continue the agreement beyond a feasibility period. In December 2006, we amended the agreement with Kensey Nash to accelerate certain milestone payments associated with the development of a matrix for sports medicine applications. In particular, we made a payment to Kensey Nash upon executing the amendment as compensation for development that had been completed relating to a matrix for sports medicine applications, and we agreed to make certain quarterly payments to Kensey Nash during 2007 and 2008. To offset these payments, the milestone payments in the original agreement relating to the first commercial sale of product were reduced by an amount equal to the quarterly payments and the payment made upon signing the amendment. In August 2008, however, we terminated the then current development project relating to a product for tendon and ligament injury treatment. This termination was effective in September 2008, at which time we stopped making the quarterly payments to Kensey Nash. We are still required to make subsequent payments to Kensey Nash based on the achievement of certain regulatory and commercial milestones of the orthopedic products developed under the agreement. In April 2008, we amended the agreement with Kensey Nash to provide for new payments from us to Kensey Nash for the accomplishment of development milestones for potential new products. Each of our suppliers has the ability to curtail manufacturing of the products at their discretion with the only requirements being that each must provide a minimum level of future product prior to ending production and each must transfer the technology to another manufacturer. 22 Table of Contents Milestone, Asset Purchase and Royalty Payments As discussed above, under our agreements with Luitpold, ZymoGenetics, Harvard, Kensey Nash and Novartis, various milestone and asset purchase payments are required. Luitpold is required to make certain milestone and asset purchase payments to us, and we are required to make certain milestone payments to ZymoGenetics, Harvard, Kensey Nash and Novartis, based on the occurrence of certain events. These milestones and asset purchase payments relate to the achievement of certain transfers of assets, clinical developments, regulatory filings and approvals and sales levels for GEM 21S and our product candidates. Under our 2003 agreements with Luitpold, upon receipt of FDA approval of GEM 21S, we received a $15.0 million milestone payment from Luitpold and an additional $5.0 million milestone payment from Luitpold on the second anniversary of our FDA approval. Under our 2007 asset purchase agreement with Luitpold, we received $15.0 million from Luitpold upon closing the transaction in January 2008, and an additional $15 million sixty days following the closing. We were required to make milestone payments to ZymoGenetics in connection with the initiation of pivotal clinical trials of GEM 21S, certain regulatory filings and approvals for GEM 21S, the receipt of FDA approval of GEM 21S, the filing of the Augment IDE, and the initiation of the Augment Canadian registration study. We were required to make milestone payments to Harvard in connection with the receipt of FDA approval of GEM 21S, the initiation of pivotal clinical trials of GEM 21S, our execution of a manufacturing and supply agreement with Novartis and our acquisition of certain patents from the Institute of Molecular Biology. We are required to make milestone payments to Kensey Nash in connection with certain time frames, the initiation of clinical trials, certain regulatory filings, product approvals, and/or commercial launch of Augment Injectable. Many of the events triggering a milestone or asset purchase payment requirement remain contingent and have not yet occurred. Assuming that all future contingencies are met and all payments are made, the milestone and asset purchase payments that we are required to make will be partially offset by the milestone and asset purchase payments that we receive. Although we cannot know when milestones will be achieved, the milestones and asset purchase fees that we have received or paid, or which we currently anticipate will be paid to us or paid by us in the near term, during 2009 to 2010, will result in a net payment to us of $17.9 million. We anticipate that milestone and asset purchase payments to us or by us from 2011 to 2014 will result in a net payment by us of $8.4 million, resulting in an overall net payment to us of $9.5 million through 2013. We are required to make minimum royalty payments to ZymoGenetics. For periodontal products, the minimum royalty payments to ZymoGenetics consist of $2.0 million in 2008. For orthopedic products, the minimum royalty payments to ZymoGenetics consist of $1.0 million in the first full year following the first commercial sale, and $1.5 million and $2.5 million in the second and third years, respectively. The milestone payments that may be material that we expect to receive during 2009 to 2010 would result in payments to us from Luitpold totaling $20.0 million. This total consists of the following: • $10.0 million to be received upon our future receipt of EU regulatory approval of GEM 21S, • $3.0 million due upon the earlier of Luitpold’s submission of a regulatory filing seeking approval of its manufacturing facility to manufacture GEM 21S or by July 1, 2009, • $3.0 million due upon the earlier of regulatory approval of Luitpold’s manufacturing facility or July 1, 2009, • $2.5 million upon the earlier of Luitpold’s receipt of regulatory approval to market a first rhPDGF containing product having a defined formulation or December 31, 2009, and • $1.5 million upon the earlier of Luitpold’s receipt of regulatory approval to market a second rhPDGF containing product having a defined formulation or December 31, 2009. Other than the $20.0 in milestones from Luitpold listed above, we believe that a substantial portion of future milestone payments are not material to our business or prospects because we anticipate that they will occur well in the future, or they are conditioned upon achieving product sales targets which also are well in the future or represent sales targets which are substantially in excess of the current or foreseeable sales targets, the achievement of which, if attained, would be in the future. 23 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our products, product candidates, technology and know-how, to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing upon our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our proprietary position by, among other methods, filing United States and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. We derive our patent rights from four sources: (1) ownership rights derived from technology we developed; (2) ownership rights purchased from the Institute of Molecular Biology; (3) licensing rights acquired from Harvard; and (4) licensing rights acquired from ZymoGenetics. We believe that our owned and licensed patents provide freedom to operate under patents that cover the composition and use of tissue growth factors. Currently, the most important among these patent rights are three U.S. patents, each of which covers our current orthopedic product candidates (Augment and Augment Injectable) and GEM 21S. In addition, these patents may provide protection for additional product candidates under development depending on the final formulations for those products. One of these patents was recently issued in January 2009. This patent is based on technology that we developed internally, and covers product formulations that include a defined PDGF dosage range combined with a TCP or a TCP/collagen matrix having certain defined particle size and porosity characteristics. This patent will provide protection until at least June 2025. The second of these patents is a method patent that we co-own and exclusively license from Harvard. This patent covering the use of PDGF to promote the growth of damaged bone, periodontium or ligament, and it will expire in June 2009. The U.S. Patent Office, however, has granted us a patent term extension for this patent as a result of the FDA’s regulatory review of GEM 21S. Under the term extension, this patent will now expire in March 2012 with respect to products covered by the patent that are used in the same indications for which GEM 21S has been approved. The third of these patents is exclusively licensed from ZymoGenetics in the dental and orthopedic fields. This patent is a composition patent that covers the isolated form of rhPDGF included in our current orthopedic product candidates and GEM 21S, and as a result of a term extension will expire in October 2010. Outside of the United States, Augment, Augment Injectable and GEM 21S are protected in the EU and Canada by licensed patents that are counterparts to the ZymoGenetics U.S. patent noted above. The EU patent expires in 2010, and Canadian patent expires in 2015. Foreign counterparts to the U.S. patent that issued to us in January 2009 are currently pending in Europe (designating 31 European countries) and in 14 other countries around the world, including all major orthopedic markets. Although the U.S. patent was granted, we cannot be certain that these pending counterpart foreign patent applications will ultimately be granted, or if granted that the scope of the claims would be broad enough to provide protection for Augment, Augment Injectable, GEM 21S or our other product candidates. In total we now own or co-own 12 U.S. patents, about 80 foreign patents, and 48 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. Furthermore, we have exclusively licensed 19 U.S. patents and over 50 foreign patents. The following is a summary of all our patent rights. Rights Owned Based on Internally Developed Technology We made a number of patent filings during 2008 and early 2009, which included converting international patent applications into individual national patent applications in various foreign countries, converting U.S. provisional patent applications into U.S. utility patent applications and international patent applications, and filing new U.S. provisional patent applications. As a result of these filings and the issuance of one of our pending applications, with regard to technology that we developed internally we now own one issued U.S. patent, six pending U.S. utility patent applications, eight pending U.S. provisional patent applications, four pending international utility patent applications, and 36 pending national phase foreign applications. The 54 pending patent applications seek to cover specific dosages of PDGF or specific medical applications of PDGF that we have developed. Our patent applications are pending review by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and by various foreign patent offices. We are unable to predict what protection will be afforded by these applications or if any protection will be ultimately granted. 24 Table of Contents Rights Purchased from IMB, including rights Co-Owned and Exclusively Licensed From Harvard We own an additional 11 U.S. patents and numerous foreign counterpart patents, which were purchased from the Institute of Molecular Biology (“IMB”). Nine of the patents purchased from IMB are co-owned with Harvard. As discussed further below, Harvard has exclusively licensed its rights in these patents to us. Several of these patents cover compositions of various growth factors, including PDGF, either alone or in combination with one another. Others of these patents cover methods of using such compositions to heal wounds or to promote the growth of bone, ligaments, or nerves. Of these 11 owned U.S. patents, five remain unexpired. The next of these patents to expire will occur in September 2009, and the last of these patents will expire in June 2025. The six patents that have expired did not cover our current orthopedic product candidates or GEM 21S. We entered into a license agreement with Harvard that provides us with an exclusive worldwide license to the patents we co-own with Harvard, and which are directed towards the use of rhPDGF and other growth factors for the healing and restoration of bone and other tissue defects. The agreement term extends to the date of the last to expire licensed patent. Under the agreement we are obligated to make certain royalty and milestone payments to Harvard. Harvard may terminate the agreement if we fail to make such payments, maintain certain insurance requirements, or fail to pursue commercialization of the licensed technology. In addition, Harvard may terminate the agreement if we are convicted of certain criminal acts, become insolvent, or breach an obligation under the agreement and fail to cure the breach within 120 days of notice. We may terminate the agreement by giving Harvard 120 day’s written notice of our intent to do so. Rights Licensed From ZymoGenetics We have licensed 19 U.S. patents and their foreign counterparts from ZymoGenetics covering various formulations of PDGF or manufacturing processes for PDGF. Of the seven of these licensed U.S. patents that remain unexpired under their original patent terms, the first patent will expire in February 2010 and the last of these patents will expire in May 2016. An additional ZymoGenetics licensed patent remains in force as a result of a patent term extension. The term extension will expire in October 2010. We entered into two license agreements with ZymoGenetics that give us the exclusive rights within certain fields of use under the ZymoGenetics patents. The first agreement, entered into in March 2001, provides us with rights to develop rhPDGF in the periodontal and cranio-maxillofacial applications. Under this agreement, we acquired a license under patent rights and know-how controlled by ZymoGenetics, to develop, make, import, sell and commercialize products for the treatment of periodontal disease and bone defects of the head and face. We paid ZymoGenetics an initial license fee and agreed to meet certain due diligence milestones, including working to register one or more of the licensed products for commercial sale. In addition, we agreed to pay royalties to ZymoGenetics based on net sales of licensed products on a country-by-country basis for the term of the agreement. We also are responsible for payments based upon the achievement of certain milestones as well as a sales bonus payment if total sales by us, our affiliates and sublicensees exceed an agreed upon threshold. In addition, we are required to pay ZymoGenetics a sublicense fee as a result of the sublicense to the ZymoGenetics’ patents that we granted to Luitpold. Virtually all of our rights under this agreement have been sublicensed to Luitpold, initially in a December 2003 exclusive sublicense agreement and later in a 2008 amended and restated sublicense agreement as part of our sale of our dental business to Luitpold. The second agreement, entered into in January 2003, expands the field of use for the development of rhPDGF to include bone, cartilage, tendon and ligament applications. We paid ZymoGenetics an initial license fee in shares of our common stock, and agreed to meet certain similar due diligence milestones as under the 2001 license described above. We also agreed to pay royalties to ZymoGenetics based on net sales of licensed products on a country-by-country basis for the term of the agreement. In addition, we are responsible for payments based upon the achievement of certain milestones as well as a sales bonus payment if total sales by us, our affiliates and sublicensees exceed an agreed upon threshold. Both ZymoGenetics agreements expire on a country-by-country basis upon the expiration of the last to expire patent in each country. Either party may terminate these agreements upon the insolvency of the other party, or if the other party breaches a material provision and fails to cure such breach within 60 days of notice. 25 Table of Contents Potential Intellectual Property Issues Some of our competitors and others manufacture and sell products containing some of the components of GEM 21S and Augment, namely rhPDGF-BB and ß-TCP. Certain intellectual property covering our use of rhPDGF-BB is owned and licensed to us by ZymoGenetics. ZymoGenetics has licensed rhPDGF-BB to other third parties for technical uses and indications that differ from ours. ß-TCP has been used in various products for over 20 years, and we are not aware of any intellectual property covering ß-TCP that our products would infringe. Although we believe that the patents and patent applications, including those that we license, provide a competitive advantage, the patent positions of biopharmaceutical and device companies are highly complex and uncertain. The combination product and medical device industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. Furthermore, as the number of entrants into our market increases, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us grows. Although we have not received notice of any claims, and are not aware that our product candidates infringe other parties’ patents and proprietary rights, our product candidates and methods may be covered by U.S. patents held by our competitors. Any claim relating to infringement of patents that is asserted against us may be costly and time-consuming to defend, would divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and may require us to pay substantial damages. If a successful infringement claims is asserted against us, we may be unable to commercialize some of our product candidates unless we able to obtain a license, or may have to cease some of our business operations, which could severely harm our business. Consequently, our success will depend in part on our not infringing patents issued to others, including our competitors and potential competitors, as well as our ability to enforce our patent rights. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. We require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment, consulting or advisory relationships with us, where appropriate. We also require our employees, consultants and advisors who we expect to work on our product and product candidates to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived during the work day, developed using our property or which relate to our business. Despite any measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our product and product candidates or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In the future, we may collaborate with other entities on research, development and commercialization activities. Disputes may arise about inventorship and corresponding rights in know-how and inventions resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by us and our collaborators, licensors and consultants. In addition, other parties may circumvent any proprietary protection that we do have. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our proprietary position. Trademarks Augment™ and OsteoMimetic™ are our only trademarks. GEM 21S®, GEM 21A™, and GEM® were transferred to Luitpold in connection with our divestiture of our orofacial therapeutic business. As part of that transaction, we abandoned applications for registration of GEM OS, GEM C, and GEM LT in the United States and abroad. Competition Developing and commercializing new orthobiologic products is highly competitive. The market is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological change. We face intense competition worldwide from medical device, biomedical technology and medical products and combination products companies, including major pharmaceutical companies. We may be unable to respond to technological advances through the development and introduction of new products. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, distribution, manufacturing and technological resources than us. These competitors also may be in the process of seeking FDA or other regulatory approvals, or patent protection, for new products. Our competitors may commercialize new products in advance of our products. Our products also face competition from numerous products and procedures, which currently are considered part of the standard of care. In order to compete effectively, our products will have to achieve widespread market acceptance. 26 Table of Contents Augment Our Augment product candidates will compete with an array of synthetic bone graft materials, ranging from resorbable pure phase ß-TCP granules to calcium sulfate pre-formed pellets. In addition, more than 20 allograft base tissue and demineralized bone matrix options are available to orthopedic surgeons. If we elect to pursue spinal fusion, tibial factures or non-union fractures, we will also compete with bone morphogenic proteins, including INFUSE (Medtronic) and BMP-7 (OP-1, Stryker Corporation). INFUSE and OP-1 may be under review for additional indications which could compete with our products. Some of the largest orthopedic companies in the United States include Stryker, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Zimmer Holdings, Inc., Medtronic, Synthes, Inc., Biomet, Inc., Smith & Nephew Group plc and Wright Medical Group, Inc. These companies distribute allograft and synthetic bone graft materials. In addition, some of the nation’s largest tissue processors and procurement agencies (including Osteotech, Inc., the Musculoskeletal Transplant Foundation (“MTF”) Regeneration Technologies, Inc., LifeCell Corporation and CryoLife, Inc.) and numerous tissue banks also distribute allograft tissue. Osteotech distributes its products directly and through agreements with DePuy, Smith & Nephew, MTF and the American Red Cross. MTF also processes allograft into a proprietary demineralized bone matrix, which is distributed by Synthes, while Regeneration Technologies’ allograft tissue is used in a variety of graft materials distributed by Exactech, Inc., Medtronic and Stryker. Biomet, DePuy and Medtronic also sell PRP systems, while Wright Medical’s Ignite system and Orthovita’s Imbibe syringe cater to surgeons who prefer to use bone marrow aspirate (“BMA”). Cartilage, Ligament and Tendon We expect our cartilage, ligament and tendon product candidates to compete against currently approved therapies, including: viscosupplementation, the ACI product, Carticel®, distributed by Genzyme Tissue Repair, and commercially available PRP and BMA systems. Regulatory Matters FDA Regulation Each of our products must be cleared or approved by the FDA before it is marketed in the United States. Both before and after approval or clearance in the United States, our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and/or the Public Health Service Act, as well as by other regulatory bodies. FDA regulations govern, among other things, the following activities in which we and our contract manufacturers, contract testing laboratories and suppliers are involved: • product development; • product testing; • product manufacturing; • product labeling; • product safety; • product storage; • product market clearance or approval; • product advertising and promotion; • product import and export; and • product sales and distribution. Failure to comply with the law could result in, among other things, warning letters, civil penalties, delays in approving or refusal to approve a product candidate, product recall, product seizure, interruption of production, operating restrictions, suspension on withdrawal of product approval, injunctions, or criminal prosecution. 27 Table of Contents The FDA has determined that Augment and Augment Injectable are combination products because they consist of a combination of a device (ß-TCP) and a biologic drug (rhPDGF). For a combination product, the FDA determines what center or centers within the FDA will review the product and its indication for use, and also determines under what legal authority the product will be reviewed. For the current indications, Augment and Augment Injectable are being reviewed by the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, with participation by the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, under the medical device regulations. We expect that the FDA will review our other regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product candidates in the same manner. We cannot be sure, however, that the FDA will not select a different center and/or legal authority for one or more of our other product candidates, in which case the governmental review requirements would vary in some respects. If a product candidate were reviewed under the drug or biologic regulations by a different FDA Center (for example, the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research), then the regulatory requirements could change and additional data may be required (for example, multiple clinical studies). FDA Approval or Clearance of Medical Devices In the United States, medical devices are subject to varying degrees of regulatory control and are classified in one of three classes depending on the extent of controls the FDA determines are necessary to reasonably ensure their safety and efficacy: • Class I: general controls, such as labeling and adherence to quality system regulations; • Class II: general controls, pre-market notification (510(k)), and specific controls such as performance standards, patient registries, and postmarket surveillance; and • Class III: general controls and approval of a pre-market approval (“PMA”) application. Each of our product candidates are in Class II or Class III, and require FDA authorization prior to marketing, by means of either a 510(k) clearance or a PMA approval. The FDA has determined that Augment and Augment Injectable are class III devices requiring a PMA. Our product candidates containing a grafting material alone should be eligible for clearance via the 510(k) route. For example, we obtained clearance for a 510(k) application for clearance of ß-TCP grafting material as a “bone void filler.” To request marketing authorization by means of a 510(k) clearance, we must submit a pre-market notification demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to another legally marketed medical device; that is, it has the same intended use, and is as safe and effective as a legally marketed device and does not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness than does a legally marketed device. 510(k) submissions generally include, among other things, a description of the device and its manufacturing, device labeling, medical devices to which the device is substantially equivalent, safety and biocompatibility information, and the results of performance testing. In some cases, a 510(k) submission must include data from human clinical studies. Marketing may commence only when the FDA issues a clearance letter finding substantial equivalence. After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any product modification that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the product, or that would constitute a significant change in intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, if the device would no longer be substantially equivalent, would require a PMA. If the FDA determines that the product does not qualify for 510(k) clearance, then the company must submit and the FDA must approve a PMA before marketing can begin. A PMA application must provide a demonstration of safety and effectiveness, which generally requires extensive pre-clinical and clinical trial data. Information about the device and its components, device design, manufacturing and labeling, among other information, must also be included in the PMA. As part of the PMA review, the FDA will inspect the manufacturer’s facilities for compliance with Quality System Regulation, or QSR, requirements, which govern testing, control, documentation and other aspects of quality assurance with respect to manufacturing. If the FDA determines the application or manufacturing facilities are not acceptable, the FDA may outline the deficiencies in the submission and often will request additional testing or information. Notwithstanding the submission of any requested additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. During the review period, an FDA advisory committee, typically a panel of clinicians and statisticians, is likely to be convened to review the application and recommend to the FDA whether, or upon what 28 Table of Contents conditions, the device should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the advisory panel decision, but the FDA often follows the panel’s recommendation. If the FDA finds the information satisfactory, it will approve the PMA. The PMA approval can include post-approval conditions including, among other things, restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale and distribution, or requirements to do additional clinical studies post-approval. Even after approval of a PMA, a new PMA or PMA supplement is required to authorize certain modifications to the device, its labeling or its manufacturing process. Supplements to a PMA often require the submission of the same type of information required for an original PMA, except that the supplement is generally limited to that information needed to support the proposed change from the product covered by the original PMA. During the review of either a 510(k) or PMA, the FDA may request more information or additional studies and may decide that the indications for which we seek approval or clearance should be limited. We cannot be sure that our product candidates will be cleared or approved in a timely fashion or at all. The review of combination products is often more complex and more time consuming than the review of a product under the jurisdiction of only one center within the FDA. In addition, laws and regulations and the interpretation of those laws and regulations by the FDA may change in the future. We cannot foresee what effect, if any, such changes may have on us. Clinical Trials of Medical Devices One or more clinical trials are almost always required to support a PMA application and is sometimes required to support a 510(k) submission. Clinical studies of unapproved or uncleared medical devices or devices being studied for uses for which they are not approved or cleared (investigational devices) must be conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. If an investigational device could pose a significant risk to patients, the sponsor company must submit an IDE application to the FDA prior to initiation of the clinical study. An IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory test results, showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. The IDE will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA unless the FDA notifies the company that the investigation may not begin. Clinical studies of investigational devices may not begin until an institutional review board, or IRB, has approved the study. During the study, the sponsor must comply with the FDA’s IDE requirements. These requirements include investigator selection, trial monitoring, adverse event reporting, and record keeping. The investigators must obtain patient informed consent, rigorously follow the investigational plan and study protocol, control the disposition of investigational devices, and comply with reporting and record keeping requirements. We, the FDA, or the IRB at each institution at which a clinical trial is being conducted may suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable risk. During the approval or clearance process, the FDA typically inspects the records relating to the conduct of one or more investigational sites participating in the study supporting the application. Post-market Regulation of Medical Devices After a device is cleared or approved for marketing, numerous and pervasive regulatory requirements continue to apply. These include: • the QSR regulation, which governs, among other things, how manufacturers design, test, manufacture, exercise quality control over, and document manufacturing of their products; • labeling and claims regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or ''off-label’’ uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and • the Medical Device Reporting regulation, which requires reporting to the FDA certain adverse experiences associated with use of the product. We continue to be subject to inspection by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements, as do our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and contract testing laboratories. International sales of medical devices manufactured in the United States that are not approved or cleared by the FDA are subject to FDA export requirements. Exported devices are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country to which the device is exported. 29 Table of Contents International Regulation We are subject to regulations and product registration requirements in many foreign countries in which we may sell our products, including in the areas of: • product standards; • packaging requirements; • labeling requirements; • import and export restrictions; and • tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. The time required to obtain clearance required by foreign countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance, and requirements for licensing a product in a foreign country may differ significantly from FDA requirements. The primary regulatory body in Canada is Health Canada. In addition to needing appropriate data to obtain market licensing in Canada, we must have ISO 13485:2003 certification. We currently have this certification and will need to maintain it in order to have the potential to gain approval of a product candidate in Canada. The primary regulatory environment in Europe is that of the EU, which consists of 25 member states and 42 competent authorities encompassing most of the major countries in Europe. In the EU, the European Medicines Agency (“EMEA”) and the EU Commission have determined that GEM 21S will be regulated as a medicinal product. We formed a wholly owned subsidiary in the United Kingdom, BioMimetic Therapeutics Limited, in October 2005 to facilitate our EU regulatory filings. We cannot be sure that additional clinical trials will not be required, that EU regulatory approval for GEM 21S will be granted in a timely fashion, or at all, or that there will be no delays in transferring the device dossier into a drug dossier in the EU. U.S. Anti-kickback and False Claims Laws In the United States, there are federal and state anti-kickback laws that prohibit the payment or receipt of kickbacks, bribes or other remuneration intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of healthcare products and services. Violations of these laws can lead to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. These laws are potentially applicable to manufacturers of combination products regulated by the FDA as medical devices, such as us, and hospitals, physicians and other potential purchasers of such products. Other provisions of state and federal law provide civil and criminal penalties for presenting, or causing to be presented, to third-party payers for reimbursement, claims that are false or fraudulent, or which are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Although we plan to structure our future business relationships with purchasers of our products to comply with these and other applicable laws, it is possible that some of our business practices in the future could be subject to scrutiny and challenge by federal or state enforcement officials under these laws. This type of challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third-party Reimbursement We anticipate that sales volumes and prices of Augment and any other products we commercialize will depend in large part on the availability of reimbursement from third party payers. Third party payers include governmental programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans, and workers’ 30 Table of Contents compensation plans. These third party payers may deny reimbursement for a product or therapy if they determine that the product or therapy was not medically appropriate or necessary. The third party payers also may place limitations on the types of physicians that can perform specific types of procedures. Also, third party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Some third party payers must also approve coverage for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse health care providers who use the products or therapies. Even though a new product may have been cleared for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the device until reimbursement approval has been obtained from governmental and private third party payers. In international markets, reimbursement and healthcare payment systems vary significantly by country, and many countries have instituted price ceilings on specific product lines and procedures. There can be no assurance that procedures using our products will be considered medically reasonable and necessary for a specific indication, that our products will be considered cost-effective by third party payers, that an adequate level of reimbursement will be available or that the third party payers’ reimbursement policies will not adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. A key component in the reimbursement decision by most private insurers and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, which administers Medicare, is the assignment of an ICD-9 code, covering inpatient surgical procedures or a Current Procedural Terminology (“CPT”) code, which covers outpatient, ambulatory surgical center procedures. These codes are used in the submission of claims to insurers for reimbursement for medical services. While there are no specific ICD-9 or CPT codes for our product candidates, the target procedures such as ankle fusions and open fracture treatment do have specific procedure codes which provide a global payment for all products and services related to the surgical procedure. Consequently, we are confident that procedural coding will not be an issue. The challenge that we will face in the reimbursement arena is convincing third party payers to cover the use of our products, when reported under the existing surgical codes. We intend to provide clinical evidence and economic arguments to payers to detail how the use of our products provide equivalent clinical outcomes to autologous bone graft, but avoid the additional time, patient discomfort and potential morbidity related to the harvesting of the autologous bone graft. For certain other indications of our orthopedic product candidates (e.g., closed fractures), a new reimbursement code will likely be required, and we will seek a new code prior to commercializing such product candidates. In the United States, some insured individuals are receiving their medical care through managed care programs, which monitor and often require pre-approval of the services that a member will receive. Some managed care programs are paying their providers on a per capita basis, which puts the providers at financial risk for the services provided to their patients by paying these providers a predetermined payment per member per month, and consequently, may limit the willingness of these providers to use our products. We believe that the overall escalating cost of medical products and services has led to, and will continue to lead to, increased pressures on the healthcare industry to reduce the costs of products and services. There can be no assurance that third-party reimbursement and coverage will be available or adequate, or that future legislation, regulation, or reimbursement policies of third party payers will not adversely affect the demand for our products or our ability to sell these products on a profitable basis. The unavailability or inadequacy of third party payer coverage or reimbursement could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Subsidiaries In October 2005, we formed a wholly owned subsidiary in the United Kingdom, BioMimetic Therapeutics Limited, for the purpose of effecting our EU regulatory filings. In October 2006, we formed a wholly owned subsidiary, BioMimetic Therapeutics Pty Ltd., for the purpose of effecting our Australian regulatory filings. Employees As of February 28, 2009, we employed 88 people, of which 37 were employed in research and development, 21 in regulatory and quality assurance, seven in operations and 23 in general and administrative. One employee holds both D.M.D and D.M.Sc. degrees, one employee holds both D.D.S. and D.M.Sc. degrees, one employee holds a Danish M.Sc., and nine additional employees hold Ph.D. 31 Table of Contents degrees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we believe our employee relations are good. Segment Information We have determined that we are principally engaged in one operating segment. Our product development efforts are primarily in the treatment of musculoskeletal injuries and diseases, such as orthopedic, spine and sports injury applications for the repair and regeneration of orthopedic tissues, including bone, cartilage, ligaments and tendons. Financial Information About Geographic Areas For the three years ended December 31, 2008, our product sales of GEM 21S were made to Luitpold through an exclusive agreement with Luitpold, which is responsible for the worldwide marketing, sales, distribution and development of GEM 21S. Such product sales to Luitpold were made exclusively in the United States, our country of domicile. Refer to our consolidated financial statements disclosed in Item 8 within this Annual Report. Corporate and Investor Information Our company was incorporated in Tennessee in April 1999 under the name BioMimetic Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In June 2001, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in July 2005, we changed our corporate name to BioMimetic Therapeutics, Inc. We make available on our website (www.biomimetics.com), free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or otherwise furnish it to, the Securities Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 32 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Current economic conditions could adversely affect our operations. According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the U.S. economy has been in a recession since December 2007. This economic downturn and the instability of markets have made the business climate more volatile and more costly. Consequently, our general business strategy may be adversely affected by unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate further, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. While we believe our existing cash and investments, in addition to expected milestone receipts, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements at least through the first quarter of 2010, a more radical economic downturn or increase in our expenses could require us to seek additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price, and could require us to delay or abandon product development plans or plans to acquire additional technology. There is a risk that one or more of our suppliers, clinical investigators, consultants and other partners may encounter difficulties during these challenging economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. The current conditions may also adversely affect our potential customers, including patients, medical professionals and their practices, hospitals and other health care providers. These conditions may also impact the overall amount spent on healthcare generally. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of our new technology and increased price competition. Our product candidates are in various stages of development and may not be developed or commercialized successfully. Our product candidates are based on technologies that often times have not been used previously in the manner and combination we propose and must compete with more established treatments currently accepted as the standards of care. Market acceptance of our products will largely depend on our ability to demonstrate their relative safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and ease of use. We are subject to the risk that: • the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority finds some or all of our product candidates ineffective or unsafe; • we do not receive necessary regulatory approvals; • we are unable to get some or all of our product candidates to market in a timely manner; • we are not able to produce our product candidates in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; and • the patient and physician community does not accept our product candidates. In addition, our product development programs may be curtailed, redirected, eliminated or delayed at any time for many reasons, including: • adverse or ambiguous results; • undesirable side effects that delay or extend the trials; • inability to locate, recruit, qualify and retain a sufficient number of clinical investigators or patients for our trials; 33 Table of Contents • regulatory delays or other regulatory actions; • failure to satisfy one or more requirements or restrictions imposed by the FDA as a basis for approving the initiation of a clinical study; • difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of the particular product candidate or any other components needed for our pre-clinical testing or clinical trials; • difficulties in obtaining the necessary regulatory support from our raw materials suppliers to enable us to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market our product or product candidates; or • re-evaluation of our clinical development strategy. We cannot predict whether we will develop and commercialize successfully any of our product candidates. If we fail to do so, we will not be able to generate substantial revenue. Our current product candidates are all based on the same protein, rhPDGF-BB. If one of our product candidates, or one of another company’s products or product candidates containing rhPDGF-BB or a similar growth factor, reveals safety or fundamental efficacy issues in clinical use or in clinical trials, then the development path for all our other current product candidates may be impacted. The development of each of our product candidates is based on our understanding of how the protein rhPDGF-BB contributes to the repair of bone and soft tissue. Soft tissue includes muscles, tendons and ligaments that connect, support or surround the bones and organs of the body. While there are important differences in each of our product candidates in terms of its purpose, each product candidate focuses on accelerating the repair of musculoskeletal tissue and relies on the ability of rhPDGF-BB to stimulate the body’s natural healing processes. Since we are developing our product candidates in parallel, if one product candidate has negative clinical trial results or is shown to be ineffective, it may impact the development path or future development of the other product candidates. If we find that one product candidate is unsafe, it may impact the development of our other product candidates. If a product or product candidate developed by another company contains the same protein rhPDGF-BB, or a similar growth factor, as our product candidates, and if their product or product candidate reveals safety or fundamental efficacy issues, then the development of our product candidates may be impacted as well. Likewise, investor perception concerning a potentially negative impact on our product candidates may cause our stock price to decline or may result in stock price volatility. For example, in March 2008, the FDA issued an “Early Communication” regarding a potential safety issue related to patients who had received repeated treatments with Regranex ®, which is a product of Systagenix Wound Management, Inc. Systagenix acquired the product from Johnson & Johnson in December 2008. Regranex is composed of rhPDGF-BB in a non-sterile ointment, and had been marketed by Johnson & Johnson since 1997 for the chronic treatment of non-healing diabetic foot ulcers. Regranex is approved for up to 140 daily applications, in contrast to our product candidates which are used as a single application and for different indications and different patient populations. In June 2008, the FDA added a warning to the labeling of Regranex that stated that “An increased rate of mortality secondary to malignancy was observed in patients treated with three or more tubes of Regranex Gel in a post-marketing retrospective cohort study. Regranex Gel should only be used when the benefits can be expected to outweigh the risks. Regranex gel should be used with caution in patients with known malignancy.” The FDA Early Communication specifically addressed Regranex use and did not address other rhPDGF-BB containing products, including our product candidates. Following the FDA’s issuance of the Early Communication, our stock price declined, and other similar announcements may impact our stock price in the future. In April 2008, the FDA issued a letter to us confirming that our North American Augment pivotal study for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions should continue as designed and that the FDA has taken no action to change the study status, confirming that our IDE study of Augment remains approved by the FDA. 34 Table of Contents If we fail to meet our obligations under our existing license agreements or fail to enter into new license agreements, our business may be materially adversely impacted. Our rights to the development, use and marketing of our product candidates are governed by a series of licensing agreements, including those with Harvard and ZymoGenetics. These license agreements provide us with rights to certain intellectual property created by the licensor, which allow us to develop and commercialize our product and product candidates. As part of these agreements, we are required to make payments to the licensors and comply with other obligations as we progress through product development and commercialization. If we fail to make these payments or satisfy other obligations for any reason, these licenses could be terminated by the licensors, thereby limiting our ability to market our product or limiting our ability to maintain exclusivity with respect to our product or product candidates. Furthermore, if a dispute arises regarding our obligations under these agreements, our business may be materially adversely impacted. Our licensors or others may dispute the scope of our rights under any of these licenses. Additionally, the licensors under these licenses might breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to prevent infringement of the licensed patents by third parties. Loss of any of these licenses for any reason could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. We may need additional licenses to intellectual property owned by third parties in order to commercialize new products. If we cannot obtain these additional licenses, we may not be able to develop or commercialize these future products. Our rights to use technologies licensed to us by third parties are not entirely within our control, and we may not be able to produce our product and product candidates without these technologies. We depend upon a limited number of specialty suppliers of raw materials. Our ability to manufacture our product candidates depends on a limited number of specialty suppliers of raw materials. In particular, we depend upon Novartis to supply us with sufficient quantities of rhPDGF for clinical development activities. We are obligated to purchase minimum specified quantities of rhPDGF. Our agreement with Novartis is cancelable under certain circumstances. We have established certain relationships with ß-TCP suppliers and are continuing to evaluate ß-TCP products and other matrices from these potential suppliers for use in orthopedic applications. There is a risk that we will not be able to secure adequate sources of rhPDGF or ß-TCP to meet our clinical needs for our orthopedic applications. The failure of a supplier to continue to provide us with these materials at a price or quality acceptable to us, or at all, would impede our ability to manufacture our product candidates. Moreover, our failure to maintain strategic reserve supplies of each significant single-sourced material used to manufacture product candidates that we develop may negatively impact our development and commercialization activities. If our specialty suppliers cannot perform as agreed, we may not be able to replace them in a timely manner or on terms that are acceptable to us and the production of our product candidates would be interrupted, resulting in delays in clinical trials and additional costs. We will be required to obtain regulatory clearance from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities before we can use different suppliers or components. If we have to switch to replacement suppliers, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of our product candidates could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay completion of our clinical trials, regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of any approved products. We and our suppliers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to matters, including safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, advertising and promotional materials relating to medical devices are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission in specific instances. We and our suppliers may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements, our failure or the failure of our manufacturers to comply with these requirements, or the adoption of new requirements could 35 Table of Contents delay the development of our product candidates or regulatory approval of our product candidates or successful commercialization of any approved products, resulting in additional losses to us. We may be unable to establish or enter into the necessary business relationships and agreements with other companies who provide a component critical to the development and commercialization of our product candidates, including intellectual property, raw materials, manufacturing assistance, regulatory assistance and other assistance necessary to develop and market our product candidates successfully. Our product development programs and potential commercialization of our product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. We rely heavily upon arrangements with third-parties for the raw materials and intellectual property used in the development of our product candidates. These third parties also provide us with assistance in manufacturing our product candidates and seeking regulatory approvals. Our strategy includes continuing to develop business relationships with other biotechnology companies to assist us in potentially commercializing our product candidates. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate business relationships, which may be complex and time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be able to enter into any such business relationships or agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If that were to happen, we may have to curtail the development or delay the commercialization of our product candidates. At this point in time, we do not have an alternative source of rhPDGF. If we are not able to obtain rhPDGF from Novartis, we will not be able to meet our supply obligations to Luitpold for rhPDGF after our current inventory is depleted. Based on Luitpold’s current forecasts for its rhPDGF needs and our planned clinical study programs for our product candidates and our anticipated pre-clinical studies, the rhPDGF in our inventory should meet our needs for approximately the next 15 months. Under the terms of our supply agreement, Novartis is required to support our efforts to establish our production of rhPDGF should it terminate the agreement; however, establishing a manufacturing process to replace Novartis’ will take multiple years and a significant financial investment to complete, if at all, and there is no assurance we would be successful in that effort. We also may not be able to manufacture any product candidates that contain rhPDGF, including our lead product candidate, Augment, after our current inventory is depleted. We have limited manufacturing capabilities and manufacturing personnel, and if our manufacturing facilities are unable to provide an adequate supply of products, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We are moving forward with plans to occupy a new manufacturing facility in the same complex as our headquarters in Franklin, Tennessee. We intend to move certain steps of the later stages of the manufacturing process of our orthopedic and sports medicine product candidates into that facility, including final formulation, filling the vials that will be packaged in the finished kits, and assembling the kits. We anticipate that the building shell will be complete in late 2009, and the build out will begin shortly thereafter. In order to qualify the facility as a GMP manufacturing facility, the build out must be complete, the utility systems, process and testing equipment must be installed and qualified, regulatory filings must be assembled and filed, and regulatory agency inspections must be passed prior to receiving approval. We anticipate that this process will take up to 24 months, and we expect the facility will be approved for commercial operations in 2011. Currently we are utilizing at least four contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for our Augment clinical study kits, and we are using at least three contract facilities to complete the manufacturing, packaging and final product testing for our Augment Injectable clinical study kits. If there were a disruption to the new manufacturing facility or those of our contract manufacturers, we would have no other means of manufacturing our product candidates until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at the new facility or develop alternative manufacturing facilities. If we were unable to produce sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in our current and planned clinical trials, or if our manufacturing process yields substandard products, our development and commercialization efforts could be delayed. We have limited resources, facilities and experience to commercially manufacture our product candidates. In order to produce our product candidates in the quantities that we anticipate will be required 36 Table of Contents to meet future market demand we will need to complete qualification of the commercial scale production process at our contract facilities and at our in-house facility. There are technical challenges to developing and qualifying commercial-scale manufacturing operations. Further, building a new facility will require the investment of substantial additional funds as well as hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. We may not successfully complete the process qualification activities in a timely manner. This could strain our existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Furthermore, if we fail to manage our growth effectively we may not be able to produce our product candidates in sufficient quantities to meet the future requirements for the product. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of any product candidate, our revenues, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. In addition, if the in-house production process is not efficient or produces products that do not meet quality and other standards, our future gross margins may decline. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. We do not have a dedicated sales force and have limited experience in the sales, marketing and distribution of regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products or drug products. In order to commercialize our product candidates, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with a third party to perform these functions. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. As a result of any arrangements we may enter into with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues could be lower than if we directly marketed and sold any product candidate that we may develop. Furthermore, as a result of any marketing and sales arrangements we may enter into with other companies, any revenues received will depend on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. Some of our future distributors may have products or product candidates that compete with ours, and they may have an incentive not to devote sufficient efforts to marketing our products. If our relationships with future distributors do not progress as anticipated, or if their sales and marketing strategies fail to generate sales of our products in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. The orthopedic product industries are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are safer and more effective than any products that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products in the field of biologics. We face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions in the United States and abroad. Many of our principal competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with, or mergers with or acquisitions by, large and established companies or through the development of novel products and technologies. Our competitors may: • develop and patent processes or products earlier than us; • obtain regulatory approvals for competing products more rapidly than us; or • develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or product and product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. The industry in which we operate has undergone, and we expect it to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made. Our competitors may develop and commercialize medical devices, regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination products, biologic products or pharmaceutical products that are safer or more effective, 37 Table of Contents have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. For example, we are aware of companies that are developing various other technologies for treating orthopedic injuries and disease, which could make our product candidates obsolete. We also compete with our competitors in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, in establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. If our product and product candidates do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payers, patients and the medical community. Market acceptance will depend on our ability to demonstrate the benefits of our approved products in terms of safety, efficacy, convenience, ease of administration and cost effectiveness. In addition, we believe market acceptance depends on the effectiveness of our marketing strategy, the pricing of our approved products and the reimbursement policies of government and third party payers. Physicians may not prescribe our approved products for a variety of reasons and patients may determine for any reason that our product is not useful to them. If any of our approved products fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. The loss of our key management and scientific personnel may hinder our ability to execute our business plan. As a small company with 88 employees as of February 28, 2009, our success depends on the continuing contributions of our management team and scientific personnel and on maintaining relationships with the network of medical and academic centers in the United States that conduct our clinical trials. We depend on the services of our key scientific employees and the principal members of our management staff. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We face intense competition in our hiring efforts from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from universities and nonprofit research organizations, and we may have to pay higher salaries to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of one or more of these individuals, or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could substantially impair our ability to implement our business plan. We face an inherent risk of liability in the event that the use or misuse of our product candidates results in personal injury or death. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products may expose us to product liability claims which could result in financial losses. Our clinical and commercial product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources and adversely impact or eliminate the prospects for commercialization of the product candidate, or sale of the product, which is the subject of any such claim. Off-label use of our product may occur. While we do not promote any off-label use, off-label uses of products are common and the FDA does not regulate a physician’s choice of treatment. Off-label use or misuse of any product for which we obtain approval may subject us to additional liability. If we are sued in a product liability action, we could be forced to pay substantial damages and the attention of our management team may be diverted from operating our business. We currently manufacture investigational regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product candidates that are implanted in patients during surgery or injected into patients at the treatment site. In addition, we are developing additional similar products for additional surgical indications. As a result, we may be subject to a product liability lawsuit. In particular, the market for spine products has a history of product liability litigation. Under past agreements with our former distributor for GEM 21S and agreements with certain suppliers, we indemnify these parties from certain product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us and/or a part that we have indemnified, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future. In addition, we would have to pay any amount awarded by a court in excess of policy limits. We maintain 38 Table of Contents product liability insurance in the annual aggregate amount of up to $20 million, although our insurance policies have various exclusions. Thus, we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no insurance coverage, in which case we may have to pay the entire amount of any award. Even in the absence of a claim, our insurance rates may rise in the future to a point where we may decide not to carry this insurance. A meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim would be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from our core business. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we cannot protect our intellectual property, our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates may be severely limited. Our success will depend in part on our ability and on the ability of Harvard and ZymoGenetics to maintain and enforce patent protection for the therapeutic uses of rhPDGF. Without patent protection, other companies could offer substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizable discovery, development and licensing costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of approved products would then be diminished. We rely on our intellectual property, as well as the intellectual property of ZymoGenetics and the intellectual property we co-own with Harvard to provide freedom to operate and to exclude others from developing rhPDGF for the treatment of general bone defects and bone defects associated with advanced periodontal disease, fractures and other indications. We currently own or exclusively license three unexpired U.S. patents covering certain unique aspects of our product candidates. Other patents that covered our product candidates have expired. We do not believe, however that such patent expirations have significantly affected our intellectual property position. Our license agreements with Harvard and ZymoGenetics provide exclusivity to certain designated patents. The exclusivity under our ZymoGenetics licenses is limited to the periodontal, orthopedic and sports medicine fields. However, if any patent or other rights which we own or exclusively license from ZymoGenetics or Harvard is challenged, a court may determine that the patents are invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity or enforceability of a patent is upheld by a court, a court may not prevent alleged infringement on the grounds that the activity is not covered by the patent claims. Any litigation, whether to enforce our rights to use our or our licensors’ patents or to defend against allegations that we infringe third-party rights, would be costly and time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. Neither we nor our licensors may be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. In addition, our patent applications, patents and our licensors’ patents may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions typically are not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases ever, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach. In addition, we cannot ensure that these agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to the information, which may not be resolved in our favor. The risk that other 39 Table of Contents parties may breach confidentiality agreements, or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could adversely affect us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. Our success also depends on our ability to operate and commercialize our product candidates without infringing the patents or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that we or our licensors or suppliers are infringing their patents or are misappropriating their proprietary information. In the event of a successful claim against us or our licensors or suppliers for infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may be required to, among other things: • pay substantial damages; • stop using our technologies; • stop certain research and development efforts; • develop non-infringing products or methods; or • obtain one or more licenses from third parties. A license required under any such patents or proprietary rights may not be available to us, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we or our licensors or suppliers are sued for infringement, we could encounter substantial delays in, or be prohibited from, developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent our employees are involved in research areas that are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that these employees may have used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims, which could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and may have a material adverse effect on us, even if we are successful in defending these claims. Delays encountered during the FDA approval process could shorten the patent protection period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize technologies or could allow others to come to market with similar technologies before us. Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive governmental regulation including the requirement of FDA approval or clearance before our product candidates may be marketed. Both before and after approval or clearance of our product candidates, we, our product candidates, our suppliers, our contract manufacturers and our contract testing laboratories are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: • warning letters; • fines and other monetary penalties; • unanticipated expenditures; • delays in the FDA’s approving or clearing or the FDA’s refusing to approve or clear a product candidate; • product recall or seizure; • interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials; • operating restrictions; 40 Table of Contents • injunctions; and • criminal prosecutions. Our product candidates require FDA authorization by means of an approval or clearance prior to marketing. Some of our product candidates, including Augment and Augment Injectable, are regulated as combination products. For a combination product, the FDA must determine which center or centers within the FDA will review the product candidate and under what legal authority the product candidate will be reviewed. For the current indications, Augment is being reviewed by medical device authorities at the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, with participation by the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. Augment requires an approved PMA before it can be marketed. The process of obtaining FDA approval of a PMA is lengthy, expensive, and uncertain, and we cannot be sure that our regenerative protein therapeutic-device combination product candidates regulated by the FDA as medical devices, or any other product candidates, will be approved in a timely fashion, or at all. If the FDA does not approve or clear our product candidates in a timely fashion, or at all, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. We cannot be sure that the FDA will not select a different center and/or different legal authority for our other product candidates, in which case the path to regulatory approval would be different and could be more lengthy and costly. The review of combination products is often more complex and more time consuming than the review of a product candidate under the jurisdiction of only one center within the FDA. In addition to the approval and clearance requirements, other numerous and pervasive regulatory requirements apply, both before and after approval or clearance, to us, our product and product candidates, and our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and contract laboratories. These include requirements related to: • testing; • manufacturing; • quality control; • labeling; • advertising; • promotion; • distribution; • export; • reporting to the FDA certain adverse experiences associated with use of the product; and • obtaining additional approvals or clearances for certain modifications to the products or their labeling or claims. In November 2005, we received approval from the FDA to commence a feasibility trial with Augment for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions and we completed patient enrollment of 20 patients in July 2006. In May 2007, we received approval from the FDA to initiate patient enrollment in a pivotal clinical trial of Augment for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions. Under this approval, in December 2008, we completed enrollment of 436 patients in the study at 37 sites. We also are subject to inspection by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements, as are our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and contract testing laboratories, and we cannot be sure that the FDA will not identify compliance issues that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. The FDA’s requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our product candidates, and our suppliers, contract manufacturers and contract laboratories. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future or that such laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect upon our business. 41 Table of Contents Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. International sales of our product and any of our product candidates that we commercialize are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country in which the products are sold. Accordingly, the introduction of our product candidates in markets outside the United States will be subject to regulatory approvals in those jurisdictions. The regulatory review process varies from country to country. Many countries also impose product standards, packaging and labeling requirements and import restrictions on medical devices. In addition, each country has its own tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. The approval by foreign government authorities is unpredictable and uncertain and can be expensive. Our ability to market our approved products could be substantially limited due to delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, the necessary approvals or clearances. Prior to marketing our products in any country outside of the United States, we must obtain marketing approval in that country. Approval and other regulatory requirements vary by jurisdiction and differ from the U.S. requirements. We may be required to perform additional pre-clinical or clinical studies even if FDA approval has been obtained. In Canada, the manufacture, distribution and use of medical devices, drugs and equipment is regulated by a variety of industry-specific statutes and regulations. Medical products sold in Canada are regulated by the Canadian Food and Drugs Act. Even though a drug or device may be approved for use in another jurisdiction, it may not be sold in Canada until approved by the national regulatory agency, Health Canada. Although in May 2006 we received marketing approval from Health Canada to market GEM 21S in Canada, we will need to present data from clinical trials to obtain approval for our other product candidates. We ultimately may not obtain the approvals necessary to market our product candidates in Canada. Under EU regulatory systems, our lead product candidate will be reviewed as a medicinal product. Marketing authorization for medicinal products can be submitted under the centralized European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (“EMEA”) or the decentralized mutual recognition process. The centralized procedure is mandatory for biotechnology derived products. If a product is approved under the centralized procedure, it receives a single marketing authorization that is valid in all EU member states. The decentralized process provides for mutual recognition of national approved decisions which allows the holder of an approval from one EU member state to submit an application in other member states requesting that they recognize the approval already granted. The results of our clinical trials may be insufficient to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. We will only receive regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or the applicable foreign regulatory agency, in well designed and conducted clinical trials, that the product candidate is safe and effective. If we are unable to demonstrate that a product candidate will be safe and effective in advanced clinical trials involving larger numbers of patients, we will be unable to submit the PMA, NDA or other application necessary to receive regulatory approval to commercialize the product candidate. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. We face risks that: • the product candidate may not prove to be safe or effective; • the product candidate’s benefits may not outweigh its risks; • the results from more advanced clinical trials may not confirm the positive results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may interpret data from pre-clinical and clinical testing in different ways than we interpret them; and • the FDA or other regulatory agencies may require additional or expanded trials. We have only limited experience in regulatory affairs, and some of our products may be based on new technologies. These factors may affect our ability or the time we require to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. 42 Table of Contents We have only limited experience in filing and prosecuting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. Moreover, some of the products that are likely to result from our product development, licensing and acquisition programs may be based on new technologies that have not been extensively tested in humans. The regulatory requirements governing these types of product candidates may be less well defined or more rigorous than for conventional products. As a result, we may experience a longer regulatory process in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals of any products that we develop, license or acquire. If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our approved products by third party payers, there may be no commercially viable markets for our approved products or the markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third party payers affect the market for our approved products. The efficacy, safety, performance and cost-effectiveness of our product and product candidates and of any competing products will determine the availability and level of reimbursement. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored healthcare and private insurance. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to produce clinical data, which may involve one or more clinical trials, that compares the cost-effectiveness of our approved products to other available therapies. We may not obtain international reimbursement or pricing approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement or pricing approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our approved products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third party payers may adversely affect the demand for our future approved products currently under development and limit our ability to sell our approved products on a profitable basis. In addition, third party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and services. If reimbursement for our approved products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our approved products would be impaired and our future revenues, if any, would be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with the U.S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federal health care program. The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute is very broad in scope and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. In addition, most of the states in which our approved products may be sold have adopted laws similar to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and some of these laws are even broader than the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute in that their prohibitions are not limited to items or services paid for by Federal health care program but, instead, apply regardless of the source of payment. Violations of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. All of our financial relationships with health care providers and others who provide products or services to federal health care program beneficiaries are potentially governed by the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. We believe our operations are in compliance with the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. However, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to investigations or litigation alleging violations of these laws, which could be time-consuming and costly to us and could divert management’s attention from operating our business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if our arrangements were found to violate the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute or similar state laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 43 Table of Contents Patients may discontinue their participation in our clinical studies, which may negatively impact the results of these studies and extend the timeline for completion of our development programs. Clinical trials for our product candidates require sufficient patient enrollment. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely or cost-effective manner. Patients enrolled in our clinical studies may discontinue their participation at any time during the study as a result of a number of factors, including withdrawing their consent or experiencing adverse clinical events, which may or may not be judged related to our product candidates under evaluation. If a large number of patients in any one of our studies discontinue their participation in the study, the results from that study may not be positive or may not support a filing for regulatory approval of our product candidates. In addition, the time required to complete clinical trials is dependent upon, among other factors, the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • the nature of the clinical protocol requirements; • the availability of other treatments or marketed therapies (whether approved or experimental); • our ability to recruit and manage clinical centers and associated trials; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; and • the patient eligibility criteria for the study. Product quality or performance issues may be discovered through ongoing regulation by the FDA and by comparable international agencies, as well as through our internal standard quality process. The medical device industry is subject to substantial regulation by the FDA and by comparable international agencies. In addition to requiring clearance or approval to market new or improved devices, we are subject to ongoing regulation as a device manufacturer. Governmental regulations cover many aspects of our operations, including quality systems, marketing and device reporting. As a result, we continually collect and analyze information about product quality and product performance through field observations, customer feedback and other quality metrics. The use of hazardous materials in our operations may subject us to environmental claims or liability. We intend to conduct research and development and some future manufacturing operations in our Franklin, Tennessee facility. Our research and development processes will involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive compounds. We will conduct experiments that are common in the biotechnology industry, in which we may use small quantities of chemical hazards, including those that are corrosive, toxic and flammable, and trace amounts of radioactive materials. The risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials cannot be eliminated. We do not maintain a separate insurance policy for these types of risks. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge or contamination, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. Risks Relating to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We have a history of losses and we expect to continue to incur losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have invested and continue to invest a significant portion of our time and resources in developing and testing our product candidates. As a result of our significant research and development, clinical development, regulatory compliance and general and administrative expenses, we expect to incur losses for at least the next few years as we continue to incur significant expenses for clinical trials. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $72.4 million. We have ongoing pivotal clinical studies for the use of Augment for the treatment of foot and ankle fusions in the United States, Canada and the EU. 44 Table of Contents In January 2008, we sold to Luitpold our remaining orofacial therapeutic business, whereas Luitpold was granted the rights to the downstream formulation, fill, finish, manufacturing and kitting of GEM 21S. This transaction has enabled us to focus our expertise and our future development efforts on our orthopedic, spine and sports medicine product candidates. This transaction leaves us without an FDA approved product currently in commercialization. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. At December 31, 2008, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards totaling $42.2 million available to reduce our future federal income tax liabilities. Our ability to use these net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our future federal income tax liabilities could be subject to annual limitations. In connection with any future offering, we may realize a “more than fifty percent change in ownership” which could further limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards accumulated to date to reduce future taxable income and tax liabilities. Additionally, because U.S. tax laws limit the time during which net operating loss carryforwards may be applied against future taxable income and tax liabilities, we may not be able to take advantage of our net operating loss for federal income tax purposes. Liquidation of our investments could be delayed. As of December 31, 2008, we had investments in student loan backed auction rate securities (“ARS”) with a combined par value of $60.0 million. Fair value measures have been estimated using cash flow discounting with a Monte Carlo simulation and other information. The valuation model reflects various assumptions that market participants would use in pricing these ARS investments, including among others, the collateralization underlying the ARS investments, the creditworthiness of the counterparty, the expected future cash flows, and the risks associated with uncertainties in the current market. There is a risk that the assumptions used in the model and our consideration of other information could be wrong. We have recorded a total fair value of $46.6 million for the ARS investments as of December 31, 2008, of which $40.5 million consist of bonds with a credit rating of AAA and $6.1 million consist of bonds with a credit rating of AA or A2. Auctions for these ARS investments have failed since February 2008, and we have not been able to sell them. Consequently, an other-than-temporary impairment in fair value of our ARS investments has resulted and an impairment loss of $13.4 million has been recorded on our consolidated statement of operations at December 31, 2008. There can be no guarantee that the market will reform or that our ARS investments will be liquidated, or even if liquidated, that they will be sold in the timeframe necessary to meet our operational and financial liquidity needs. In addition, even if liquidated, we may be forced to sell these ARS investments at a value that is significantly less than their par value or less than the fair value as reported herein. If we default on our Deutsche Bank Time Promissory Note, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In October 2008, we executed a Time Promissory Note (“Note”) credit facility with Deutsche Bank AG (“Deutsche Bank”) enabling us to borrow up to $39.1 million, and we have now drawn down $39.1 million under the credit facility. The Note is secured by certain ARS investments that we own having a total par value of $55.9 million. Under the terms of the Note, we are required to make monthly interest payments during the two-year term of the Note. All outstanding principal amounts are due and payable in full on the maturity date in October 2010. Because of the variable interest rates on the collateral ARS investments, the interest payments that we earn on the collateral ARS investments may be insufficient to cover the interest payments due on outstanding loans under the Note, which may result in significant costs to us. If we fail to make the required interest payments or otherwise default on certain obligations under the Note, all outstanding principal borrowed under the Note may become immediately due and payable. Upon such default, Deutsche Bank is permitted to sell the collateral ARS investments, and may do so at a price that is significantly less than their par value. As a result, the proceeds from the sale of the collateral ARS investments may be insufficient to cover our outstanding loan balance, and Deutsche Bank may pursue 45 Table of Contents other assets that we own to recover any remaining balance under the Note, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Change in control restrictions under our Deutsche Bank Note could hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us or affect the share price at which a potential acquirer would be willing to pay. Under the terms of the Deutsche Bank Note, we are not permitted to take any action that could result in a change in control without first either paying off all outstanding principal and interest under the Note or obtaining Deutsche Bank’s consent to such action, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. If Deutsche Bank refuses to consent to a merger or acquisition, then we or the potential acquirer would be required to pay off all outstanding principal and interest owed under the Note, which could hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, if a potential acquirer is required to pay off all outstanding loans owed under the Note in order to consummate a transaction, it could impact the share price or any premium that such an acquirer would be willing to pay. We may need to raise additional capital in the future. If we are unable to successfully raise additional capital in the future, our product development could be limited and our long term viability may be threatened; however, if we do raise additional capital, your percentage ownership as a stockholder could decrease and constraints could be placed on the operation of our business. We have experienced negative operating cash flows since our inception and have funded our operations primarily from proceeds received from sales of our stock and the licensing and sale of our orofacial therapeutic business. We believe our existing cash and investments, including the net proceeds of our February 2007 secondary public offering, the January 2008 sale of our orofacial therapeutic business to Luitpold, and funds borrowed in October 2008 from our Deutsche Bank credit facility, as well as time-based milestone payments expected to be received in 2009, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements at least through the first quarter of 2010. We may seek to obtain additional funds at any time in the future through equity or debt financings, or strategic alliances with third parties, either alone or in combination with equity financings. These financings could result in substantial dilution to the holders of our common stock or require contractual or other restrictions on our operations or on alternatives that may be available to us in considering strategic transactions, dividends or liquidation preferences, debt service and/or revenue sharing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. Any such required financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us and the failure to procure such required financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A variety of factors could impact our need to raise additional capital, the timing of any required financings and the amount of such financings. Factors that may cause our future capital requirements to be greater than anticipated or could accelerate our need for funds include, without limitation: • unforeseen developments during our pre-clinical activities and clinical trials; • delays in the timing of receipt of required regulatory approvals; • unanticipated expenditures in research and development or manufacturing activities; • delayed market acceptance of our approved product; • unanticipated expenditures in the acquisition and defense of intellectual property rights; • the failure to develop strategic alliances for the marketing of some of our product candidates; • additional inventory builds to adequately support the launch of new products; • unforeseen changes in healthcare reimbursement for procedures using our approved product; • inability to train a sufficient number of surgeons to create demand for our approved product; 46 Table of Contents • lack of financial resources to adequately support our operations; • difficulties in maintaining commercial scale manufacturing capacity and capability; • unforeseen problems with our third-party manufacturers and service providers or with our specialty suppliers of certain raw materials; • unanticipated difficulties in operating in international markets; • unanticipated financial resources needed to respond to technological changes and increased competition; • unforeseen problems in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to market our approved product; • enactment of new legislation or administrative regulations; • the application to our business of new court decisions and regulatory interpretations; • claims that might be brought in excess of our insurance coverage; • the failure to comply with regulatory guidelines; • unforeseen cost overruns associated with completion of our new manufacturing facility; and • the uncertainty in industry demand and patient wellness behavior as businesses and individuals suffer from the current economic downturn. In addition, although we have no present commitments or understandings to do so, we may seek to expand our operations and product line through acquisitions or joint ventures. Any acquisition or joint venture would likely increase our capital requirements. If adequate financing is not available, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate our operations. Consequently, our long-term viability would be threatened. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our business, operating results and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting. This report, which is included in our annual report for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not our internal controls are effective. Our annual report for fiscal year ended 2008 contains a statement that our independent auditors have issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. We began in 2007 the process to document and evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significant costs, the commitment of time and operational resources and the diversion of management’s attention. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent auditors are unable to express an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, then the market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer. Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will be highly volatile. Prior to our initial public offering (“IPO”) in May 2006, there was no public market for our common stock. An active and liquid trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that 47 Table of Contents you consider reasonable. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any securities analysts will initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our common stock. The trading prices of the securities of medical technology and biotechnology companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include, among other things: • whether we receive FDA approval to market any of our product candidates in the United States or similar regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions; • whether we successfully commercialize any approved product in the future; • developments relating to patents, proprietary rights and potential infringement; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial products; • reimbursement policies of various governmental and third party payers; • public concern over the safety and efficacy of GEM 21S or any of our product candidates; • changes in estimates of our revenue and operating results; • variances in our revenue or operating results from forecasts or projections; • recommendations of securities analysts regarding investment in our stock; • our ability to maintain and/or raise sufficient capital to fund our operations until we are able to commercialize a product candidate and become profitable; and • market conditions in our industry and the current economic downturn as a whole. If our future quarterly or annual operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock will likely decline. In addition, share price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals or milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we expect that we will publicly announce the anticipated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, our stock price may decline and the commercialization of our product and product candidates may be delayed. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could drop significantly if our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. All of the shares sold in our IPO and in our February 2007 secondary offering were freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We expect that we also will be required to register any securities sold in future private financings. In addition, all of our common stock issued prior to our IPO is freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless owned by our affiliates. Furthermore, as of November 23, 2006, holders of approximately 9,330,495 shares of common stock had piggyback registration rights with respect to their shares in connection with future offerings. Those registration rights expire upon the earlier of (i) the transfer of those shares by the holder of the rights, (ii) if the holder is not an affiliate of our Company, when such holder’s ownership in our Company falls below one percent of the outstanding stock of our Company or (iii) the fifth anniversary of our IPO which will occur in May 2011. Sales by stockholders of substantial amounts of our shares, or the perception that these sales may occur in the future, could affect materially and adversely the market price of our common stock. 48 Table of Contents At December 31, 2008, there were options issued and outstanding to purchase 2,117,392 shares of our common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $9.41. Also at December 31, 2008, there were 1,166,258 options remaining available for future for issuance of options under our stock option plans. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates maintain the ability to substantially influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. As of December 31, 2008, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own shares representing approximately 15.2% of our capital stock. Accordingly, our current executive officers, directors and their affiliates have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions, as well as management and affairs. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control of us at a premium price if these stockholders oppose it, even if it would benefit our other stockholders. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us. Provisions of our corporate charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. For example, in January 2007, Novo A/S (“Novo”) made a purchase of shares of our company’s common stock, which placed Novo over the 15% ownership threshold set forth in Section 203. Since this transaction was not pre-approved by our board of directors, we cannot engage in a business combination with Novo prior to January 2010 without first obtaining approval by two-thirds of the disinterested stockholders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 