Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion highlights certain risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for our existing and potential stockholders to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. If the market for enterprise marketing management software does not develop as we anticipate, our revenue may decline or fail to grow and we may incur operating losses. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, all of our revenue from providing EMM software and services. The market for EMM software is relatively new and still evolving, and it is uncertain whether these products will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Some businesses may be reluctant or unwilling to implement EMM software for a number of reasons, including failure to perceive the need for improved marketing processes and lack of knowledge about the potential benefits that EMM software may provide. Even if businesses recognize the need for improved marketing processes, they may not select EMM software such as ours because they previously have made investments in internally developed solutions or marketing or infrastructure software. Some businesses may elect to improve their marketing processes through software obtained from their existing enterprise software providers, whose products are designed principally to address one or more functional areas other than marketing. These enterprise products may appeal to customers that wish to limit the number of software vendors on which they rely and the number of different types of software used to run their businesses. If businesses do not perceive the benefits of EMM software, the EMM market may not continue to develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would significantly adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Because the market for EMM software is developing and the manner of its development is difficult to predict, we may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our operating results. Current macro-economic conditions could negatively impact our results of operations. The current unfavorable macro-economic conditions could negatively impact the results of operations of our customers, which in turn could negatively impact the spending by our current and prospective customers on our software and services. Given that we have numerous customers in certain of the industries most impacted by the current unfavorable economic conditions, including financial services and retail, this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the economic climate in the U.S. or abroad does not improve from its current condition or continues to deteriorate, our customers or 12 Table of Contents potential customers could reduce or delay their purchases of our products, which would adversely impact our revenues and our profitability. Our quarterly and annual revenue and other operating results can be difficult to predict and can fluctuate substantially, which may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. Our quarterly and annual revenue and other operating results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as equity research analysts and investors respond to these quarterly and annual fluctuations. These fluctuations are due to numerous factors, including: • the timing and size of our licensing transactions; • the mix of perpetual licenses and subscription arrangements; • lengthy and unpredictable sales cycles; • patterns of capital spending and changes in budgeting cycles by our customers; • the timing of development, introduction and market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • the timing of acquisitions of businesses and products by us or our competitors; • product and price competition; • the mix of higher-margin license revenue and lower-margin service revenue; • software defects or other product quality problems; • our ability to hire, train and retain sufficient sales, service and other personnel; • the geographical mix of our sales, together with fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • fluctuations in economic and financial market conditions; • resolution of litigation, claims and other contingencies; • expenses related to litigation, claims and other contingencies; and • complexity of the accounting rules that govern revenue recognition. Because of quarterly fluctuations, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Moreover, our operating results may not meet our announced guidance or expectations of equity research analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. In addition, our expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations as to future revenue and are largely fixed in the short term. As a result, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Furthermore, we intend to increase our operating expenses as we expand our product development, sales and marketing, and administrative organizations. The timing of these increases and the rate at which new personnel become productive will affect our operating results, and, in particular, we may incur operating losses in the event of an unexpected delay in the rate at which development or sales personnel become productive. Any such revenue shortfall, and the resulting decrease in operating income or increase in operating loss, could lead to volatility in the price of our common stock. The delay or cancellation of one or more large transactions may adversely affect our quarterly or annual revenue. Large license transactions from time to time account for a substantial amount of our license revenue in a fiscal quarter. If a potential customer does not enter into a large transaction that we anticipate in a certain quarter, or if we are unable to recognize license revenue from that transaction in the quarter, our revenue may 13 Table of Contents decline or fail to grow at the rate expected and we may incur operating losses in that quarter. Moreover, a significant portion of each quarter’s license revenue historically has come from transactions agreed upon in the final month of the quarter. Therefore, even a short delay in the consummation of an agreement may cause our revenue to fall below our announced guidance or expectations of equity research analysts or investors for a quarter. If we fail to develop or acquire new software products or enhance existing products, we will not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth. We must introduce new software products and enhance existing products in order to meet our business plan, keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasing customer requirements, increase awareness of EMM software generally and of our company and products in particular, and maintain our competitive position. Any new products we develop may not be introduced in a timely manner and may not achieve market acceptance sufficient to generate significant revenue. Furthermore, we expect other companies to develop and market new products that will compete with, and may reduce the demand for, our products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or otherwise acquiring, marketing and licensing new products or product updates and upgrades that meet changing industry standards and customer demands, or that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, marketing and licensing of these products. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products successfully, to enhance our existing products, or to position or price our products to meet market demand, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our revenue and other operating results would be adversely affected. In addition, because our software products are intended to operate on a variety of hardware and software platforms, we must continue to modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in these platforms. Any inability of our products to operate effectively with existing or future hardware and software platforms could reduce the demand for our products, result in customer dissatisfaction and limit our revenue. A substantial majority of our perpetual license revenue is derived from our Affinium Campaign software, and a decline in sales of licenses of this software could materially adversely affect our operating results. Sales of licenses of our Affinium Campaign software have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues. We expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our license revenue for the foreseeable future from current and future versions of our Affinium Campaign software, and our operating results will depend significantly upon the level of demand for this software. Demand for our Affinium Campaign software may decline due to a number of factors, including increased market penetration by our competitors’ products or slower growth in the EMM market than we anticipate. If demand for our Affinium Campaign software decreases significantly, our operating results will be adversely affected and we may incur operating losses. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property adequately, our business and prospects may be harmed. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our software products and services. We cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying or reverse-engineering our products, or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. As of September 30, 2008, we had five issued U.S. patents and eighteen pending U.S. patent applications. We may, however, be unable to obtain additional patent protection in the future. In addition, any current or future patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Accordingly, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that steps we take to protect our proprietary rights will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. 14 Table of Contents In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright, service mark and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our software products are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. To date, we have applied for a limited number of patents outside of the United States. Therefore, to the extent that we continue to increase our international selling activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information will continue to increase. We have incorporated third-party licensed technology into our current product offerings. Royalties paid for this third-party licensed technology have historically ranged from 1% to 2% of license revenue and we expect this percentage to remain relatively constant for the foreseeable future. If these technology providers were no longer to allow us to use these technologies for any reason, we may be required to: • identify, license and integrate equivalent technology from another source; • rewrite the technology ourselves; or • rewrite portions of our software to accommodate the change or no longer use the technology. Any one of these outcomes could delay further sales or the implementation of our products, impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our products, or injure our reputation. In addition, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop and market new products, and we cannot assure you that we could license that technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Because of the relative immateriality of this third-party licensed technology as well as the availability of alternative equivalent technology, we do not expect that our inability to license this technology in the future would have a material adverse affect on our business or operating results. Our inability to license this technology could adversely affect our ability to compete. We have entered into agreements with many of our customers, MSPs and systems integrators that require us to maintain the source code of our software products in escrow. These agreements typically provide that these parties will have limited, nonexclusive rights to use the source code under certain circumstances in which we are unable or unwilling to provide product support, including in the event of our bankruptcy. We may be unable, however, to control the actions of our customers, MSPs and systems integrators that have entered into these agreements, and our business may be harmed if one or more customers, MSPs or systems integrators use the source code for purposes other than those permitted by the escrow provisions. Competition from EMM, enterprise application and infrastructure software, as well as from internally developed solutions, could adversely affect our ability to sell our software products and related services and could result in pressure to price our products in a manner that reduces our margins. The market for EMM software, which has emerged only in recent years, is intensely competitive, evolving and fragmented. Our software products compete with software developed internally by businesses as well as software offered by commercial competitors. Our principal commercial competition consists of: • vendors of software products addressing a range or portion of the EMM market; • vendors of customer relationship management and other enterprise application software; and • providers of infrastructure software. We expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies as the EMM market continues to develop and expand. We also expect competition to increase as a result of software industry consolidation, including through a merger or partnership of two or more of our competitors, and the entrance of new competitors in the EMM market. Many of our current and potential competitors have larger installed bases of users, longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. In addition, many of these companies have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources than we have. As a result, these companies may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and 15 Table of Contents changes in customer demands and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional software products and related services on terms favorable to us. Businesses may continue to enhance their internally developed solutions, rather than investing in commercial software such as ours. Our current and potential commercial competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. In addition, if these competitors develop products with similar or superior functionality to our products, we may need to decrease the prices for our products in order to remain competitive. If we are unable to maintain our current product, services and maintenance pricing due to competitive pressures, our margins will be reduced and our operating results will be negatively affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we do not maintain and strengthen our strategic alliance relationships, our ability to generate revenue and manage expenses could be adversely affected. We believe that our ability to increase revenue from our software products and manage our expenses depends in part upon our maintaining and strengthening our existing strategic alliance relationships and our developing new strategic alliance relationships, particularly in additional countries outside the United States. We rely on established, nonexclusive relationships with a variety of MSPs and systems integrators for marketing, licensing, implementing and supporting our products. Although many aspects of our strategic alliance relationships are contractual in nature, important aspects of these relationships depend on the continued cooperation between the parties. Divergence in strategy, change in focus, competitive product offerings, potential contract defaults, and changes in ownership or management of an MSP or systems integrator may interfere with our ability to market, license, implement or support our products with that party, which in turn could harm our business. Some of our competitors may have stronger relationships with our MSPs and systems integrators than we do, and we have limited control, if any, as to whether MSPs and systems integrators implement our products rather than our competitors’ products or whether they devote resources to market and support our competitors’ products rather than our offerings. In addition, MSPs typically have available their own internally developed applications that they may choose to offer and support in lieu of our software offerings. We may not be able to maintain our strategic alliance relationships or attract sufficient additional MSPs and systems integrators that have the ability to market, sell, implement or support our products effectively, particularly in additional countries outside the United States. If we are unable to leverage our sales resources through our strategic alliance relationships with MSPs, we may need to hire and train additional qualified sales personnel. Similarly, if we cannot leverage our services resources through our strategic alliance relationships with systems integrators, we may incur additional costs associated with providing services. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to hire additional qualified sales or service personnel in these circumstances, and our failure to do so may restrict our ability to generate revenue or implement our products on a timely basis. Even if we are successful in hiring additional qualified sales or service personnel, we will incur additional costs and our operating results, including our gross margins, may be adversely affected. If we fail to retain our chief executive officer or other key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, we will not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key sales, marketing, service, engineering and technical staff. The loss of the services of our executive officers and other key personnel would harm our operations. In particular, Yuchun Lee, our co-founder, chief executive officer, president and chairman, is critical to the management of our business and operations, as well as to the development of our strategic direction. None of our officers or key personnel is bound by an employment agreement, and we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. In addition, our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract a sufficient number of highly qualified personnel, and 16 Table of Contents there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Competition for qualified personnel in the software industry is intense, and we compete for these personnel with other software companies that have greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources than we do. If we fail to retain our key personnel and to attract new personnel, we will not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our international operations expose us to additional business risks, and failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our primary sales offices are in France, the United Kingdom and Singapore. Revenue from customers located outside of North America accounted for $44.1 million, or 36% of total revenue in fiscal 2008, $27.3 million, or 27% of total revenue in fiscal 2007 and $17.4 million, or 21% of total revenue in fiscal 2006. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: • lack of local recognition of our branding, which may require that we spend significant amounts of time and money to build brand identity; • difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing international operations; • difficulty in establishing and maintaining strategic alliance relationships; • internationalization of our products to meet local customs or the needs of local marketing organizations; • different pricing environments; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties; • compliance with multiple, conflicting, and changing laws and regulations, including employment, tax, trade, privacy, and data protection laws and regulations; • laws and business practices, which may vary from country to country and may favor local competitors; • limited protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States; and • political and economic instability. Our operating results and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the Euro and the British pound sterling. These fluctuations could negatively affect our operating results and could cause our net income or loss to vary from quarter to quarter. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Our failure to manage the risks associated with our international operations effectively could limit the future growth of our business and adversely affect our operating results. We may in the future further expand our existing international operations by, for example, entering additional international markets. We may be required to make a substantial financial investment and expend significant management efforts in connection with any such international expansion. New accounting standards or interpretations of existing accounting standards could adversely affect our operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Certain factors have in the past and may in the future cause us to defer recognition for license fees beyond delivery. For example, the inclusion in our software arrangements of customer acceptance testing, specified upgrades or other material non-standard terms could require the deferral of license revenue beyond 17 Table of Contents delivery. Because of these factors and other specific requirements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our software arrangements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend our sales cycle, and we may accept terms and conditions that do not permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery. Taxing authorities could challenge our historical and future tax positions as well as our allocation of taxable income among our subsidiaries The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. We have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of such tax laws. While we believe that we have complied with all applicable income tax laws, there can be no assurance that a taxing authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes. Should additional taxes be assessed, this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We conduct sales, marketing, professional services and research and development operations through our subsidiaries located in various tax jurisdictions around the world. While our transfer pricing methodology is based on economic studies which we believe are reasonable, the price charged for these services could be challenged by the various tax authorities resulting in additional tax liability, interest and/or penalties. Our business continues to grow rapidly in size and complexity which may affect our ability to effectively comply with new and existing regulations affecting our business. We anticipate that we will continue to grow in size and complexity. We recognize that the regulatory environment affecting our business, particularly regulations relating to accounting standards and principles and regulations relating to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance related to our internal controls, continues to become more complex and burdensome. We may not be able to scale our business infrastructure in a way that will allow us to comply with such regulations or comply with such regulations in a timely manner and, in particular, there is a risk that we will not be able to effectively remedy material internal control weaknesses or may have new material control weaknesses in the future. Material control weaknesses or our inability to be compliant with regulations may have a direct negative effect on our long and short term stock performance and may require us to devote significant resources in response to compliance or remedial measures. If the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that we have identified is not remedied effectively, it could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements not being prevented or detected and could adversely affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, and could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Through, in part, the documentation, testing and assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the rules promulgated by the SEC under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Item 308 of Regulation S-K, management has concluded that we did not maintain effective controls over the accounting for deferred maintenance and subscription revenue, including the determination and reporting of deferred maintenance and subscription revenue balances as well as the recognition of maintenance and subscription revenue. Management has determined that this control deficiency represented a material weakness as of September 30, 2008. This material weakness and our remediation plans are described further in Item 9A-Controls and Procedures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Prior to the elimination of this material weakness, there remains risk that the controls on which we currently rely will fail to be sufficiently effective, which could result in a material misstatement of our financial position or results of operations and require a restatement of our financial statements. In addition, because of inherent limitations, such controls and procedures may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any material weakness or the unsuccessful remediation thereof could have a material adverse effect on reported results of operations and financial condition, as well as impair our ability to meet our quarterly and annual reporting requirements in a timely manner. 18 Table of Contents Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets, and any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely impact our net income. At September 30, 2008, we had goodwill of $26.2 million and other intangible assets of approximately $6.8 million, net of accumulated amortization. Our goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test, and both goodwill and other intangible assets are also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that they may be impaired. Such events or conditions could include an economic downturn in our customers’ industries, increased competition, or other information regarding our market value, such as a reduction in our stock price to a price at, near or below our book value for a period of time, which could indicate a triggering event and a possible impairment of goodwill. Any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. During the quarter ended September 30, 2008, we performed our annual impairment test of our goodwill. We determined that our goodwill was not impaired based on this test. In addition, we will continue to incur non-cash charges relating to the amortization of our intangible assets other than goodwill, over the remaining useful lives of such assets. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets resulting from an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of intangible assets could have a significant impact on our net income and affect our ability to achieve profitability. Although we do not believe that any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets exists at this time, in the event that such a condition or event occurs, we may record charges which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our inability to sustain our historical maintenance renewal rates and pricing would adversely affect our operating results. We generate maintenance fees revenue from sales of maintenance associated with licensed software. We generally sell maintenance on an annual basis. In each of the last three fiscal years, customers have renewed maintenance arrangements at a renewal rate of greater than 88%. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in sustaining this rate of maintenance renewals. Moreover, we are facing competitive and other pressures to reduce the pricing of our maintenance arrangements. If we fail to sustain our historical level of maintenance renewals or our historical pricing, our maintenance fees revenue and total revenue would decrease and our operating results would be adversely affected. Defects or errors in our software products could harm our reputation, impair our ability to sell our products and result in significant costs to us. Our software products are complex and may contain undetected defects or errors. We have not suffered significant harm from any defects or errors to date, but we have from time to time found defects in our products and we may discover additional defects in the future. We may not be able to detect and correct defects or errors before releasing products. Consequently, we or our customers may discover defects or errors after our products have been implemented. We have in the past issued, and may in the future need to issue, corrective releases of our products to correct defects or errors. The occurrence of any defects or errors could result in: • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products; • delays in payment to us by customers; • product returns; • injury to our reputation; • diversion of our resources; • legal claims, including product liability claims, against us; • increased service and warranty expenses or financial concessions; and • increased insurance costs. Defects and errors in our software products could result in an increase in service and warranty costs or claims for substantial damages against us. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our liability for defects and errors in our products and damages relating to such defects and errors, but these provisions may not be enforced by a court or otherwise effectively protect us from legal claims. Our liability insurance may not be adequate to cover all of the costs resulting from these 19 Table of Contents legal claims. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our current liability insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion against us of one or more large claims that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse affect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, even if we succeed in the litigation, we are likely to incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations. We intend to increase the amount of revenue that we derive from subscription arrangements, which may cause our quarterly revenue and other operating results to fail to meet expectations. We generate recurring revenue from agreements to license our offerings on a subscription basis, both directly and through MSPs that provide outsourcing and on-demand solutions. Our subscription arrangements typically have a license period of one year, although the license periods may range from three to thirty-six months. We intend to seek to increase the percentage of our total revenue derived under the subscription model in order to diversify our revenue stream and generally provide us with greater revenue predictability in the long term. Since revenue from a subscription arrangement is recognized ratably over the contractual term of the arrangement rather than upon product delivery, a greater shift than anticipated from perpetual license agreements towards subscription arrangements will result in our recognizing less revenue in the initial quarters of the license period. Similarly, a decline in new or renewed subscription arrangements in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue for that quarter and may negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Differences in the mix of our perpetual license revenue and our subscription fees revenue could cause our operating results for a quarter to vary from our announced guidance or expectations of equity research analysts or investors, which could result in volatility in the price of our common stock. Privacy and security concerns, including evolving government regulation in the area of consumer data privacy, could adversely affect our business and operating results. The effectiveness of our software products relies on our customers’ storage and use of data concerning their customers, including financial, personally identifying and other sensitive data. Our customers’ collection and use of these data for consumer profiling may raise privacy and security concerns and negatively impact the demand for our products and services. We have implemented various features intended to enable our customers to better comply with privacy and security requirements, such as opt-out messaging and checking, the use of anonymous identifiers for sensitive data, and restricted data access, but these security measures may not be effective against all potential privacy concerns and security threats. If a breach of customer data security were to occur, our products may be perceived as less desirable, which would negatively affect our business and operating results. In addition, governments in some jurisdictions have enacted or are considering enacting consumer data privacy legislation, including laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing and use of consumer data. This legislation could reduce the demand for our software products if we fail to design or enhance our products to enable our customers to comply with the privacy and security measures required by the legislation. Moreover, we may be exposed to liability under existing or new consumer data privacy legislation. Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims may cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our software products. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive claims that our software products or business infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of third parties. For example, in fiscal year 2006 we settled a lawsuit with NetRatings, Inc. relating to the alleged patent infringement of our NetTracker software, a product we acquired as part of our acquisition of Sane Solutions, LLC (Sane). 20 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that in the future other third parties will not assert that our technology violates their intellectual property rights or that we will not be the subject of a material intellectual property dispute. EMM software developers may become increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of commercially available EMM software products increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps. Regardless of the merit of any particular claim that our technology violates the intellectual property rights of others, responding to such claims may require us to: • incur substantial expenses and expend significant management efforts; • pay damages; • cease making, licensing or using products that are alleged to incorporate the intellectual property of others; • enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies; and • expend additional development resources to redesign our products. We may also be required to indemnify customers, MSPs or systems integrators for their use of the intellectual property associated with the current suit or for other third-party products that are incorporated into our products and that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If we are unable to resolve our legal obligations by settling or paying an infringement claim or a related indemnification claim as described above, we may be required to refund amounts that we had received under the contractual arrangement with the customers, MSPs or systems integrators. In addition, from time to time there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. We use a limited amount of open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. We may enter into acquisitions that may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of businesses, technologies and products that will complement our existing operations. On December 20, 2005, we acquired certain assets of MarketSoft Software Corporation and on March 22, 2006, we acquired Sane Solutions, L.L.C. Most recently, on July 12, 2007, we acquired MarketingCentral L.L.C., as described in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. We cannot assure you that these acquisitions or any acquisition we make in the future will provide us with the benefits we anticipated in entering into the transaction. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; • maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; • potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of management; • impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel; • inability to maintain relationships with customers of the acquired business; • difficulties in incorporating acquired technology and rights into products and services; • failure to achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition; • unexpected expenses resulting from the acquisition; • potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses; 21 Table of Contents • unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration into existing technology; and • litigation. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, restructuring charges and large one-time write-offs, such as write-offs for acquired in-process research and development costs. Acquisitions may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. Furthermore, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately consummated. Those negotiations could result in diversion of management time and significant out-of-pocket costs. If we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, has imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in fiscal 2006, we began system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we continue to incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading market for our common stock may fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations could cause our investors to lose part or all of any investment in shares of our common stock. The following factors, most of which are outside of our control, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly: • loss of any of our major customers; • departure of key personnel; • variations in our annual or quarterly operating results; • announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, new products or product enhancements, acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in governmental regulations and standards affecting the software industry and our products, including implementation of additional regulations relating to consumer data privacy; • decreases in financial estimates by equity research analysts; • sales of common stock or other securities by us in the future; 22 Table of Contents • decreases in market valuations of software companies; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; and • damages, settlements, legal fees and other costs related to litigation, claims and other contingencies. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been initiated against a company following a period of volatility in the market price of the company’s securities. If class action litigation is initiated against us, we will incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations. All of these factors could cause the market price of our stock to decline, and our investors may lose some or all of any investment. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock could impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, and may cause our investors to lose part or all of any investment in our shares of common stock. Our directors and executive officers will continue to have substantial control over us and could limit the ability of stockholders to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change in control. We anticipate that our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them will, in the aggregate, continue to beneficially own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock in the near term. In particular, Yuchun Lee, our co-founder, chief executive officer, president and chairman, beneficially owned approximately 22% of our outstanding common stock as of September 30, 2008. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities, if acting together, would be able to control or influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company, and may affect the market price of our common stock. Our corporate documents and Delaware law make a takeover of our company more difficult, which may prevent certain changes in control and limit the market price of our common stock. Our charter and by-laws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Some provisions in our charter and by-laws may deter third parties from acquiring us, which may limit the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 