ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us, or that we presently deem as immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to our Business Ventavis is our only product, and if we do not successfully market and sell Ventavis, we may not generate sufficient sales to expand or continue our business operations. Our ability to successfully market and sell Ventavis, our only product, depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: • achieve sufficient market demand for Ventavis through patient acceptance, continued use of Ventavis and patient compliance with the Ventavis dosing regimen; • educate patients, physician prescribers, others in the medical community and third-party payors about Ventavis and PAH; • sell Ventavis at acceptable prices; • expand the commercial potential of Ventavis through successful completion of our ongoing and planned development activities; • obtain and maintain adequate third-party payor reimbursement of Ventavis and the inhalation devices used to administer Ventavis; • ensure that Ventavis and the inhalation devices used to administer Ventavis are manufactured in accordance with and continue to meet regulatory requirements; • obtain sufficient quantities of Ventavis to meet market demand; • ensure adequate supply of the inhalation devices used to administer Ventavis; and • maintain our agreements with the specialty pharmacy and third-party logistic companies that distribute Ventavis, and ensure that those companies perform their obligations under those agreements. If we do not successfully market and sell Ventavis, we may not generate sufficient sales to expand or continue our business. We have a history of net losses and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We are a biopharmaceutical company incorporated in February 2000 with a limited operating history. We did not exit the development company stage until we initiated commercial sales of Ventavis in March 2005. Through December 31, 2005, we had generated only $23.9 million of net product sales. We have funded our operations primarily from sales of our equity securities. We have incurred losses in each year 23 Table of Contents since our inception, and through December 31, 2005, had an accumulated deficit totaling $83.7 million. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $24.6 million, $37.8 million and $12.6 million, respectively. The net losses for the year ended December 31, 2003 and the year ended December 31, 2004 included acquired product right expenses of $6.0 million and $7.0 million, respectively, related to milestone payments to Schering AG. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our cash flow, stockholders’ equity and working capital. We may not generate sufficient sales of Ventavis, which is our only product, for us to achieve or maintain profitability. We expect to incur increased selling, general and administrative expenses in future years versus comparable periods in the past due to higher sales and marketing expenses related to the commercialization of Ventavis and expenses related to operating as a public company. We also expect significantly increased research and development expenses related to preclinical and clinical studies and reformulation efforts to expand the use of Ventavis. We continue to incur significant losses. Based on our current sales projections for Ventavis, we anticipate that our losses will decrease over the next few years and plan to finance future operations from sales of Ventavis. However, if our sales of Ventavis are lower than our projections, our losses could increase. In addition, our goal is to acquire or license the rights to additional products or product candidates, which we anticipate would increase and continue our losses. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing and commercializing therapeutic drugs, we may experience larger than expected future losses and may not become profitable. Our product sales depend on two distributors to whom we sell Ventavis, and a limited number of physicians who prescribe Ventavis. Product sales may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the buying patterns of these distributors, the prescribing patterns of these physicians, and the seasonal work and travel schedules of physicians and patients. We sell Ventavis to only two specialty pharmacy distributors, Accredo and Curascript, and accordingly they are our only customers. For the year ended December 31, 2005, Accredo and Curascript represented 80% and 20% of our sales, respectively. Any failure by Accredo or Curascript to pay us on a timely basis or at all could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, a limited number of physicians are responsible for the majority of Ventavis prescriptions. Our sales could fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the buying patterns of Accredo and Curascript and the prescribing patterns of these physicians, including fluctuations due to the seasonal work and travel schedules of physicians and patients alike. For example, during the summer and the winter holiday season, patients may be less likely to seek medical consultation and physicians are more likely to be on vacation, resulting in fewer prescriptions for and lower sales of Ventavis. Furthermore, there can be no guarantee that physicians currently prescribing Ventavis will continue to do so. Most of these physicians are geographically concentrated in metropolitan areas that have academic medical centers, and natural disaster, terrorism, work stoppages or other such events in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our sales. Any failure to manage and maintain our distribution network could compromise Ventavis sales and harm our business. We rely on third parties to distribute Ventavis to patients. We have contracted with Cardinal Health, a third-party logistics company, to warehouse Ventavis and distribute it to our two specialty pharmacies, Accredo and Curascript, which in turn distribute Ventavis to patients and provide reimbursement and other support services. This distribution network requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing and finance organizations. Cardinal Health is our exclusive supplier of distribution logistics services; therefore we are wholly dependent on Cardinal Health to perform satisfactorily its obligations under its agreement with us. Accredo is the exclusive provider of our call center. Accredo and Curascript administer reimbursement support programs that provide patients with benefit information regarding reimbursement 24 Table of Contents of Ventavis by private payors and state (Medicaid) and federal (Medicare) programs for uninsured and disabled patients, respectively. Accordingly, we are wholly dependent on Accredo and Curascript for these services, upon which we rely to help maintain and expand the market for Ventavis. Failure to maintain our contracts with our logistics company and specialty pharmacies, or the inability or failure of any of them to adequately perform as agreed under their respective contracts with us, could harm our business. We do not have our own warehouse or distribution capabilities, and we lack the resources and experience to establish any of these functions and do not intend to do so in the foreseeable future. We would be unable to replace Cardinal Health, Accredo or Curascript in a timely manner in the event of a natural disaster, failure to meet FDA and other regulatory requirements, business failure, strike or any other distribution failure. If Cardinal Health, Accredo or Curascript do not perform for any reason under their respective contracts with us, the distribution of Ventavis could be interrupted. Since we are dependent upon Cardinal Health, Accredo and Curascript for information regarding Ventavis sales, shipments and inventory, failure in their financial systems could negatively impact our ability to accurately report and forecast product sales and fulfill our regulatory obligations. Any failure to effectively manage and maintain our distribution network could damage our results of operations and market position, have a material adverse effect on sales of Ventavis and harm our business. Our ability to generate sales of Ventavis depends in significant part on achieving and maintaining adequate insurance coverage and reimbursement and government pricing policies. Our ability to achieve and maintain acceptable levels of and insurance coverage and reimbursement for Ventavis and the inhalation devices used to administer Ventavis by third-party payors such as governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations has a significant effect on our sales. It is time-consuming and expensive to seek appropriate coverage and reimbursement treatment from third-party payors. Medicare has determined a reimbursement amount and reimbursement code for Ventavis. Medicare has also determined a reimbursement code and a maximum amount of reimbursement for the Prodose and I-neb devices, which reimbursement amount is effective as of April 2006. Medicaid plans in all fifty states are mandated to cover Ventavis. Notwithstanding this coverage requirement, Utah Medicaid recently rescinded its Ventavis coverage. Decisions regarding the extent of coverage and amount of reimbursement for Ventavis are made on a state-by-state basis. Our specialty pharmacy distributors negotiate with each state for Medicaid coverage and reimbursement for Ventavis and the Prodose and I-neb devices. Our sales and our financial condition could be negatively impacted if the reimbursement by Utah Medicaid for Ventavis continues to be refused or if reimbursement otherwise currently provided by Medicare or Medicaid in different states is unavailable or inadequate. We do not possess the experience or resources to manufacture, market or sell the inhalation devices used to deliver Ventavis, and we do not intend in the foreseeable future to acquire or develop such manufacturing capabilities. Moreover, the availability of coverage and reimbursement for the inhalation devices is beyond our control. We believe that government reimbursement policies have not historically recognized the increased cost inherent in devices that have very complex designs capable of providing the dose precision of the Prodose and I-neb devices. The maximum reimbursement amount set by Medicare for the Prodose and I-neb devices may be seen as inadequate. Our specialty pharmacy customers may stop distributing Prodose or I-neb devices, and our sales would likely be harmed, if they or our patients or physicians consider the Medicare reimbursement or other reimbursement for the Prodose or I-neb device to be inadequate. An ongoing trend has been for government payors to apply downward pressure on the reimbursement of biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We expect this trend to continue as these payors implement 25 Table of Contents various proposals or regulatory policies that affect reimbursement of these products. There are currently, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement controls on reimbursement and pricing, directly and indirectly. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. In addition, any coverage or reimbursement by third-party payors, including governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, may be decreased or eliminated in the future due to, among other things, any failure by us or our specialty pharmacy distributors to comply with regulatory requirements. Coverage and reimbursement may not be available or adequate to allow us to sell Ventavis on a competitive and profitable basis. Many payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products, medical products and services. Our business and financial condition would be affected negatively if reimbursement is inadequate or not available for Ventavis or the Prodose, I-neb or any other device used to administer Ventavis. If our competitors have or introduce products that are preferred over Ventavis, our commercial opportunity will be significantly reduced or eliminated. We face intense competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions, among others. Our commercial opportunity may be reduced significantly if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, more convenient, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than Ventavis. There currently is no cure for PAH other than lung transplantation. If any other curative treatment for PAH is developed, Ventavis may become obsolete. Various products currently are marketed for the treatment of PAH, including prostacyclins such as epoprostenol, marketed as Flolan by GlaxoSmithKline, which recently announced it has licensed the U.S. rights to market and distribute Flolan to Myogen, and subcutaneous and intravenous versions of treprostinil, marketed as Remodulin by United Therapeutics. In addition, there are approved oral therapies including endothelin receptor antagonists, or ETRAs, such as bosentan, marketed as Tracleer by Actelion, and a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, or PDE-5 inhibitor, sildenafil, which is marketed as Revatio by Pfizer. The availability of these competitive products may harm sales of Ventavis. In addition, United Therapeutics is conducting a Phase II/III study of an inhaled formulation of treprostinil. According to United Therapeutics, the inhaled formulation of trepostinil requires a shorter period of inhalation compared to Ventavis, as well as fewer doses per day. United Therapeutics presented data from an open label pilot study of inhaled treprostinil at the AHA conference in November 2005. The Phase II/III study is currently enrolling patients and United Therapeutics indicated that the study is approximately half enrolled, but has not announced when it anticipates completion of enrollment in the study or when a submission is expected to be made to the FDA. Also, a number of new PAH treatments are being developed. These include additional oral ETRAs such as Encysive Pharmaceuticals’ Thelin (sitaxsentan), which is currently under NDA review, and Myogen’s ambrisentan, which is currently in Phase III clinical trials, as well as other classes of agents, including long-acting PDE-5 inhibitors such as Lilly ICOS’ Cialis (tadalafil), and antiproliferative agents such as Novartis AG’s Gleevec® (imatinib mesylate). If any other drugs or an inhaled formulation of trepostinil are approved by the FDA and prove to be safer, more effective or more convenient than Ventavis, then prescriptions of Ventavis by physicians and patient use of Ventavis would likely be significantly reduced. In March 2006, GlaxoSmithKline and Myogen announced an agreement pursuant to which Myogen licensed commercialization rights for ambrisentan outside the U.S. to GlaxoSmithKline, GlaxoSmithKline 26 Table of Contents agreed to share certain clinical development costs for ambrisentan, and Myogen received U.S. rights to market and distribute Flolan. Many of our competitors currently have significantly greater financial resources than we do that could be applied to identifying new products, researching and developing new and existing products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, managing manufacturing, and marketing, selling and distributing approved products. Pricing by our competitors may require us to sell Ventavis at a price that adversely affects our operating results. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon, among other things: • effectively utilizing our sales and marketing organization; • ensuring availability of Ventavis and availability and market acceptance of the I-neb device; • expanding the commercial potential of Ventavis through successful completion of our ongoing and planned clinical development activities; • modifying the I-neb device to decrease duration of dosing; and • developing an improved formulation of iloprost, the active ingredient in Ventavis, to reduce dosing frequency and/or treatment time. If Ventavis does not gain significant market acceptance in the United States among patients and health care professionals, our business will be harmed. Ventavis is our only product. Ventavis may not gain significant market acceptance among patients and health care professionals in the United States. The degree of market acceptance of Ventavis depends on a number of factors. Market acceptance of Ventavis may be limited because the available method of delivery and the prescribed dosing duration and frequency of Ventavis are inconvenient compared to some other drugs. The Prodose device is not compact and must be plugged into an electrical outlet. Although we believe that the hand-held, battery-operated I-neb device will expand our market opportunity because patients will find it to be more convenient, it has only recently become commercially available, its marketability is unproven, and we cannot guarantee that it will gain general or lasting market acceptance. Any problems encountered with the Prodose or I-neb devices may cause patients to use other drugs, which may impact negatively our sales and harm our business. Market acceptance of Ventavis also may be impaired by any problems that affect the performance of the inhalation device or devices used to deliver Ventavis. Inadequate quality assurance, quality control or failure to adhere to manufacturing standards by Respironics could discourage patients or physicians from adopting Ventavis as a therapy. The performance capabilities of the I-neb device and the reliability of Respironics’ quality assurance and controls in its I-neb manufacturing process are untested in the market. Failure to increase acceptance of prostacyclin therapy delivered through inhalation as opposed to continuous infusion by subcutaneous delivery or by infusion pump could limit our market opportunity. We believe some patients may prefer to use, and some physicians may prefer to prescribe, other prostacyclin treatments rather than Ventavis. Patients who have severe PAH may require other prostacyclin therapies because of the need for continual dosing. Side effects also could negatively affect market acceptance of Ventavis. Side effects of Ventavis observed during clinical trials included fainting, shortness of breath, fatigue, chest pain, nausea and headaches. In addition, although the FDA label for Ventavis specifies six to nine doses per day, we cannot be certain that patients will comply with this dosing regimen, which may reduce efficacy of the treatment and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our sales of Ventavis. We believe patients on average take six doses of Ventavis per day. 27 Table of Contents Any or all of these factors could limit market acceptance of Ventavis and significantly harm our business. Any interruption in the supply or problems that adversely affect the Prodose or I-neb devices could seriously harm our business or result in our inability to sell Ventavis. Respironics is the sole supplier of the Prodose and I-neb devices, which are the only inhalation devices approved for use with Ventavis. If for any reason Respironics fails to supply to specialty pharmacy companies an adequate number of inhalation devices to meet patient demand, our business would be significantly harmed. If inhalation devices approved for use with Ventavis became unavailable, we could not secure inhalation devices from a third party on a timely basis and would therefore be unable to sell Ventavis. The I-neb device became commercially available in December 2005, and is the first commercial device utilizing Respironics’ vibrating mesh technology together with its AAD technology. The design of the device may not provide advantages expected, and it is unknown whether the I-neb device will perform in the marketplace as expected or will gain general or lasting acceptance by patients and physicians. We believe the I-neb device is more convenient for patients, providing them greater freedom and mobility, and that its adoption will expand our market opportunity and increase our sales. However, the I-neb device may not prove to have these advantages, or may not impact our potential market size or sales. If the I-neb device is not widely adopted or is not perceived by patients and physicians as improving treatments, our reputation, market opportunity and future sales could be harmed. Inhalation devices are inherently mechanical, and, as a result, any individual device may not operate as intended and can fail from time to time. In particular, newly introduced devices or devices using new technology, such as the I-neb device, may experience unexpected difficulties that are not discovered until their use becomes more widespread. If devices fail to operate properly or efficiently or failures were to occur on a widespread basis, we cannot be certain that such issues could be resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner. If it is determined that a device could potentially harm patients, distribution of the device could be suspended or recalled, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we decide to seek an alternate supplier of inhalation devices, we will need to identify and contract with that new supplier to demonstrate comparability with this new device and to obtain FDA approval for the use of the new device with Ventavis. The FDA process requires the clearance of a 510(k) application for the device and the approval of an sNDA for the use of the device with Ventavis. Seeking FDA clearance and approval of any device is costly and time-consuming, with no assurance that the FDA will grant clearance or approval. Respironics manufactures the Prodose and I-neb devices outside of the United States and is subject to the quality system regulation requirements of the FDA and other manufacturing standards and regulatory requirements imposed by the FDA and foreign authorities. We have no control over Respironics’ manufacturing process. Failure by Respironics to maintain required manufacturing standards or to implement proper quality assurance and quality control could result in serious patient injury, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, product malfunctions or inefficiencies, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. Respironics also could encounter difficulties involving production yields as well as shortages of qualified personnel. In addition, Respironics is subject to ongoing inspections and regulation by the FDA and corresponding foreign and state agencies and may fail to meet these agencies’ acceptable standards of compliance. 28 Table of Contents We have no manufacturing capabilities and rely on Schering AG for the clinical and commercial production of Ventavis, which puts at risk our ability to obtain Ventavis for distribution and continued development. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of Ventavis. We have little experience in drug formulation and no experience in drug manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture Ventavis on a clinical or commercial scale. We do not intend to develop facilities for the manufacture of Ventavis for clinical trials or commercial purposes in the foreseeable future. We rely on Schering AG as our sole supplier for the clinical and commercial production of Ventavis. Schering AG may not perform as agreed or may not continue producing Ventavis. In the event of a natural disaster, failure to continue to meet FDA regulatory requirements, business failure, strike or other difficulty, the production and supply of Ventavis would be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. Our supply of Ventavis is subject to additional risks of interruption because it is manufactured outside of the United States. Schering AG manufacturers the iloprost drug substance for Ventavis in Germany and then transports it to Spain where the final drug product is finished and packaged. We must maintain clearance from the appropriate foreign health authorities to export Ventavis to the United States. We may face difficulties in importing Ventavis into the United States as a result of, among other things, FDA import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. Schering AG also may fail to maintain required FDA manufacturing standards, including the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. Any failure by Schering AG to maintain such standards could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. Schering AG also could encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. In addition, Schering AG is subject to ongoing inspections and regulation by the FDA and corresponding foreign and state agencies and it may fail to meet these agencies’ acceptable standards of compliance. Upon the occurrence of any of the aforementioned events, our ability to switch manufacturers would be very difficult and prolonged for a number of reasons, including: • the number of potential manufacturers is limited and we may not be able to negotiate agreements with alternative manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms or at all; • the proprietary manufacturing process is lengthy and complex; and • the FDA must approve any replacement facility prior to manufacturing, which requires new testing and compliance inspections. We have agreed to purchase our Ventavis requirements exclusively from Schering AG. The process of manufacturing Ventavis is an extremely complex and lengthy process. If Schering AG ceases to manufacture Ventavis or is unable to provide us with supplies of Ventavis for any reason, we may experience significant interruption or failure of our supply of Ventavis or in further clinical development of the product as we develop internal manufacturing capabilities or seek a third-party manufacturer. We must commit to minimum purchase requirements of Ventavis from Schering AG and if we fail to accurately forecast our need for Ventavis our business will be harmed. Under our agreement with Schering AG we committed to purchasing minimum amounts of Ventavis through the first quarter of 2008. We evaluate the need to provide reserves for contractually committed future purchases of inventory that may exceed forecasted future demand. In making these assessments, we are required to make judgments as to the future demand for current or committed inventory levels. We are 29 Table of Contents also required to make judgments as to the expiration dates of our product, since product can no longer be used after its expiration date. As part of our excess inventory assessment we also consider the expiration date of product to be manufactured in the future under minimum purchase obligations. Significant differences between our current estimates and judgments and future estimated demand for product and the useful life of inventory, may result in significant charges for excess inventory or purchase commitments in the future. If we underestimate our purchase requirements we will not be able to meet the needs of patients and patients may turn to alternate treatments. These differences, whether we overestimate or underestimate our purchase requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our product sales may depend on the health and personal preferences of patients. As the health of a PAH patient declines, he or she may not be able to administer drugs using an inhalation device, such as the Prodose or I-neb devices, or may require 24-hour continuous treatment. Under these or other circumstances, or because of personal preference, the patient may opt for competitors’ prostacyclin products administered intravenously or subcutaneously. In addition, PAH is a fatal disease and the discontinuance rate of use of Ventavis is affected by the seriousness of the illness. Furthermore, patients who use Ventavis may choose to take fewer than the recommended number of doses, or may believe using Ventavis is inconvenient and opt for other treatments. All of the above factors may have the effect of weakening our sales and harming our business. Identifying and licensing or acquiring other products or product candidates and obtaining FDA approval for their commercialization may put a strain on our operations and will likely require us to seek additional financing, and we ultimately may not be able to expand our business with new product sales. One of our key strategies is to license or acquire products or product candidates and develop them for commercialization. We have no internal discovery capabilities and rely on our ability to license or acquire any additional products or product candidates to expand our pipeline. We have no present agreement to license or acquire any future material products or product candidates. The market for licensing and acquiring products and product candidates is intensely competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than us. If we are successful in this strategy, the process of integrating an additional product or product candidate into our business may put a strain on our operations, including diversion of personnel, financial resources and management’s attention. In addition, any such license or acquisition would increase our operating costs and likely will require us to seek additional financing. If we are not successful in identifying and licensing or acquiring other products or product candidates, we will be unable to increase our revenues with sales from new products. We may be required to conduct preclinical and clinical studies for any product or product candidates that we may license or acquire. Significant delays in clinical development could materially increase our product development costs or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do, impairing our ability to successfully commercialize any such products or product candidates. Future licenses or acquisitions could result in additional issuances of equity securities that would dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. They could also result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or the amortization of expenses related to other intangible assets, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. Our sales could be harmed by imports from countries where Ventavis may be available at a lower price. Rights to market Ventavis in Canada are held by Berlex Laboratories, a subsidiary of Schering AG. Berlex Laboratories filed for marketing approval with Health Canada, which is reviewing the application 30 Table of Contents and which could grant approval as early as 2006. In the United States, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in other countries, including the bordering nations of Mexico and Canada, which may maintain government price controls. The ability of patients and other customers to obtain lower priced imports has grown significantly as a result of regulatory harmonization, common market or other trade initiatives, and the Internet. The volume of illegal imports into the United States continues to rise as foreign pharmacies target American purchasers and American purchasers become more aware of less expensive illegal imports. In addition, political forces may result in U.S. legislative or executive action that would legalize lower priced imports. Our sales of Ventavis in the United States may be reduced if products are imported into the United States from lower price markets, whether legally or illegally. Any decrease in our sales could have a material adverse impact on our business. The loss of our rights to market and sell Ventavis would eliminate our only source of product sales and we may not be able to continue our business. We have licensed from Schering AG the exclusive U.S. rights to develop and commercialize Ventavis for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. Schering AG has the right to terminate our license if we materially breach our obligations under the agreement and fail to cure any such breach within a specified period of time, including if we fail to use our best efforts to commercialize Ventavis in the United States or make payments required under the agreement, or if we become insolvent. Our ability to meet these obligations is dependent upon numerous factors, including some factors that are outside of our control. If our agreement with Schering AG were terminated, we would have no further rights to develop and commercialize Ventavis for any indication. Ventavis is our only product, and our only source of product sales. The termination of the Schering AG agreement would eliminate our product sales and we may not be able to continue our business. We are subject to extensive government regulation that may impair sales of Ventavis. Government regulation includes inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental controls, efficacy, labeling, advertising, marketing, promotion, record keeping, reporting, sale and distribution, import, export and the distribution of samples of pharmaceutical products, and electronic records and electronic signatures. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses and marketing of pharmaceutical products, including Ventavis; subject a marketed product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and periodic inspections; require ongoing adverse event and other reporting; and may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies. We must also obtain additional approvals for product manufacturing and labeling changes. The FDA closely regulates the labeling, marketing and promotion of approved drugs. FDA rules for pharmaceutical promotion require that we only promote Ventavis for uses that have been approved by the FDA, and that all of our promotional materials be adequately substantiated and that information presented contain a fair and balanced description of the risks and benefits of Ventavis, the safety of Ventavis and the limitations on its use. For example, while our label includes information regarding the tolerability and dosing of Ventavis in combination with bosentan, we are not permitted to promote Ventavis as a combination therapy with bosentan or any other drug unless and until we have developed what the FDA calls substantial evidence or clinical experience to support such uses. Government regulators recently have increased their scrutiny of the promotion and marketing of drugs. In addition to FDA requirements, regulatory and law enforcement agencies such as the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Inspector General, the U.S. Department of Justice and state Attorneys General monitor and investigate pharmaceutical sales, marketing and other practices. For example, sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the Medicare-Medicaid Anti-Fraud and Abuse Act, as amended, the False Claims Act, as amended, Medicaid rebate requirements and similar state laws. In recent years, actions by companies’ sales forces and marketing departments have been scrutinized intensely to ensure, among other things, that actions by such groups do 31 Table of Contents not qualify as “kickbacks” to healthcare professionals. A “kickback” refers to the provision of any item of value to a healthcare professional or other person in exchange for purchasing, recommending or referring an individual for an item or service reimbursable by a federal healthcare program. These kickbacks increase the expenses of the federal healthcare program and may result in civil penalties, criminal prosecutions and exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which would adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. In addition, even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would also harm our business and financial condition. We are also subject to government regulation with respect to the prices we charge and the rebates we offer or pay to customers, including rebates paid to certain governmental entities, such as the Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. Products made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration are subject to additional laws and requirements. All of our activities are potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. These legal and regulatory requirements are enforced by the FDA, CMS, other divisions of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Justice, state and local governments and their respective foreign equivalents. Government regulation substantially increases the cost of developing, manufacturing, distributing, marketing and selling pharmaceutical products. We have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices, and we continue to update the program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements. We have significantly fewer employees than many other companies in our industry, and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions, but cannot control the compliance activities of these third parties. Further, we cannot ensure that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations, or that this program will protect us from future lawsuits or investigations. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet applicable legal and regulatory requirements can result in costly and burdensome investigations, adverse publicity, warning letters, criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, suspension or revocation of our regulatory approval of Ventavis, denial or withdrawal of other pre-marketing product approvals, suspension or termination of ongoing clinical trials, refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or accept filings for new applications or supplements, private “qui tam” actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government, or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. State pharmaceutical marketing compliance and reporting requirements may expose us to regulatory and legal action by state governments or other government authorities. In recent years, several states, including California, Vermont, Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico and West Virginia, as well as the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs and file periodic reports with the state on sales, marketing, pricing and other activities. For example, California has enacted a statute requiring pharmaceutical companies to adopt a comprehensive compliance program that is in accordance with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers. This compliance program must include policies for compliance with the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals, as well as a specific annual dollar limit on gifts or other items given to individual healthcare professionals in California. The policies must be posted on the company’s public web site along with an annual declaration of compliance. 32 Table of Contents Vermont, Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico, Texas, the District of Columbia and West Virginia have also enacted statutes of varying scope that impose reporting and disclosure requirements upon pharmaceutical companies pertaining to drug pricing and payments and costs associated with pharmaceutical marketing, advertising and promotional activities, as well as restrictions upon the types of gifts that may be provided to healthcare practitioners. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. In addition, a number of states have adopted or are considering what are known as “drug pedigree laws,” which require tracking drug distribution to prevent counterfeit drugs from being introduced into the supply chain, and loss reporting requirements, which require drug manufacturers to report any drug products that are unaccounted for. Many of these state requirements are new and uncertain, and available guidance is limited. We are in the process of identifying the universe of state laws applicable to pharmaceutical companies and are taking steps to ensure that we come into compliance with all such laws. Unless and until we are in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, any of which could harm our business. Sales of Ventavis could be harmed due to a large number of clinical trials competing for available PAH patients. There are a number of current and planned clinical trials by companies that compete with us and which currently have drugs available to treat PAH, as well as companies with investigational drugs to treat PAH. These trials compete for patients who might otherwise be appropriate for Ventavis therapy. In addition, patients who participate in clinical trials may be offered free drug for up to one year after a trial has concluded. Over the next two years, we expect up to 1,500 PAH patients to enroll in clinical trials conducted by us and other companies. If other clinical trials successfully recruit patients who would otherwise be Ventavis patients, our sales or sales growth would be harmed and our clinical trials could be disrupted or delayed, which could slow the increased commercialization of Ventavis. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, including our ongoing Phase II ACTIVE Trial and our Phase III VISION Trial. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain additional regulatory approval for or further commercialize Ventavis. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our clinical trials, including our ongoing ACTIVE and VISION trials. We may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that third parties devote to our clinical trials. Identifying and enrolling patients in clinical trials from the limited available patient population is a time-consuming and sometimes difficult process, and we depend on these third parties to achieve full and timely enrollment. Establishing and maintaining good relationships with individual principal investigators and clinical trial sites is critical to us. For example, in the event that we are unable to maintain our relationships with any of our selected clinical trial sites, or elect to terminate the participation of any of these sites, we may experience the loss of follow-up information on patients enrolled in our ongoing clinical trial unless we are able to transfer the care of those patients to another qualified site. In addition, principal investigators for our clinical trials may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive cash or equity compensation in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site may be jeopardized. We have no experience in conducting clinical trials in Europe, and consequently, for the VISION Trial, we are relying on a contract research organization to act as our legal representative in Europe and conduct the VISION Trial in Europe, including assisting in preparation of regulatory submissions in Europe and assisting in managing the clinical sites in Europe. If any third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data obtained in clinical trials is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain additional regulatory approval for or increase commercialization opportunities of Ventavis. 33 Table of Contents If our clinical trials or clinical disease registry generate data that are less favorable than historical data or are viewed as unsuccessful, or if our clinical trials experience significant delays or adverse events, our business could be harmed significantly. We conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials with respect to Ventavis and have initiated a clinical disease registry to collect observational data on U.S. patients with PAH, WHO Group 1. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays. We may encounter delays or rejections based on our inability to enroll or maintain enrollment of enough patients to complete our clinical trials or clinical disease registry. For example, we have experienced slower-than-expected enrollment in our ACTIVE Trial. Therefore, we modified the enrollment criteria of this trial and are reviewing enrollment rates. However, even after this amendment, we may continue to experience slow patient enrollment. In addition, competitors are conducting clinical trials that compete for the same PAH patients. Even if we are able to enroll a sufficient number of patients, our current or future clinical trials may not produce positive results or adequate clinical data necessary to obtain the desired marketing approval, or may result in adverse events, which could interrupt, delay or halt our clinical trials and could result in unfavorable regulatory actions, including denial for Ventavis to be marketed for new indications, in combination with other therapies or otherwise outside of our current label. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays or failures in our clinical trials, and significant delays could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or potential products. Furthermore, any future product candidate, including dry powder formulations of iloprost, the active ingredient in Ventavis, or Ventavis used in combination therapy or for additional indications, may prove to be ineffective or only moderately effective in treating a targeted indication or when used in combination therapy, or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude us from obtaining the desired regulatory approval, prevent or limit an intended commercial use, or raise concerns regarding the safety or efficacy of Ventavis for its current approved uses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our clinical disease registry may not produce positive data with respect to Ventavis or its use. The FDA and other regulatory authorities may not approve any future product that we may develop or approve Ventavis for any additional indications or combination therapy. Any such failure may severely harm our business. In addition, any approvals we may obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we seek approval, or contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions or contraindications with respect to conditions of use, or in the form of onerous risk management plans, restrictions on distribution, or post-approval study requirements. Even if our product or any future product candidate meets safety and efficacy endpoints in clinical trials, regulatory authorities may not approve our request for labeling claims, or we may face post-approval problems that require withdrawal from the market. Our product or any of our future product candidates, including any dry powder formulations of iloprost, the active ingredient in Ventavis, may not be receive the sought-after regulatory approval even if they achieve their endpoints in clinical trials. Regulatory agencies may approve a product candidate for fewer conditions than requested or raise concerns regarding the safety or efficacy of Ventavis for its current approved use, may grant approval subject to the performance of post-marketing studies, or may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of Ventavis or any future product candidates. Even after regulatory approval, our product or future product candidates may later exhibit adverse effects that limit or even prevent their widespread use or that force us to withdraw from the market. Any unforeseen problems with an approved product or any violation of regulations could result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market. 34 Table of Contents We are, and potentially may be, subject to new federal and state requirements to submit information on our open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases. In 1997, a public registry of open clinical trials involving drugs intended to treat serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions was established under the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act, or FDMA, in order to promote public awareness of and access to these clinical trials. Under FDMA, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other trial sponsors are required to post the general purpose of these trials, as well as the eligibility criteria, location and contact information of the trials. Since the establishment of this registry, there has been significant public debate focused on broadening the types of trials included in this or other registries, as well as providing for public access to clinical trial results. A voluntary coalition of medical journal editors has adopted a resolution to publish results only from those trials that have been registered with a no-cost, publicly accessible database, such as www.clinicaltrials.gov. The Pharmaceuticals and Research Manufacturers of America, or PhRMA, has also issued voluntary principles for its members to make results from certain clinical studies publicly available and has established a website for this purpose. Other groups have adopted or are considering similar proposals for clinical trial registration and the posting of clinical trial results. The state of Maine has enacted legislation, with penalty provisions, requiring the disclosure of results from clinical trials involving drugs marketed in the state, and similar legislation has been introduced in other states. Federal legislation was introduced in fall of 2004 to expand www.clinicaltrials.gov and to require the inclusion of study results in this registry. In some states, such as New York, prosecutors have alleged that a lack of disclosure of clinical trial information constitutes fraud, and these allegations have resulted in settlements with pharmaceutical companies that include agreements to post clinical trial results. Our failure to comply with any clinical trial posting requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and other penalties, all of which could materially harm our business. If product liability lawsuits are asserted against us, we may be required to limit or halt commercialization of Ventavis, may incur substantial liabilities, and may suffer damages that exceed our insurance coverage. We face product liability exposure related to the marketing and distribution of Ventavis and Ventavis’ clinical testing. We also face such exposure related to inhalation devices used to administer Ventavis, even though we do not manufacture or distribute those devices. If we cannot defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product and any future product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • diversion of our management’s attention; • substantial monetary awards to patients and others; • loss of sales; and • the inability to commercialize Ventavis or any future product or product candidates. We have product liability insurance that covers the sale of our commercial product and our clinical trials in amounts that we believe are adequate and appropriate for similarly situated companies in our industry. We monitor the levels of our coverage and adjust them periodically. However, we may not have adequate protection against potential liabilities. In addition, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain existing insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may 35 Table of Contents not be able to obtain additional insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any potential liability that may arise. Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications that we may be required to license to continue commercializing Ventavis or that could result in litigation that would be costly and time-consuming. Our continued commercialization of Ventavis depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell Ventavis without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. A number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions have or may be granted patents that cover technologies similar to the technologies owned by or licensed to us. We may choose to seek, or be required to seek, licenses under third-party patents, which would likely require the payment of license fees or royalties or both. For example, we are aware of a use patent that we may seek to license that covers the combination of Ventavis and PDE-5 inhibitors. We may also be unaware of existing patents that may be infringed by Ventavis. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be other currently pending applications that may later result in issued patents that are infringed by Ventavis. Moreover, any necessary license may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we infringe on its technology, our business and results of operations could be harmed by a number of factors, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims, even if without merit, are expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business; • monetary damage awards for past infringement can be substantial; • a court may prohibit us from selling Ventavis unless the patent holder chooses to license the patent to us; and • if a license is available from a patent holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties. We may be forced to bring an infringement action if we believe that a competitor is infringing our protected intellectual property. Any such litigation will be costly and time-consuming and will divert management’s attention, and the outcome of any such litigation may not be favorable to us. Our intellectual property rights may not preclude competitors from developing competing products and our business may suffer. If we are not able to protect our proprietary technology, trade secrets and know-how, our competitors may use our intellectual property to develop competing products. Our patents, including our licensed patents relating to the use and manufacture of iloprost, may not be sufficient to prevent others from competing with us. The composition of matter patent covering iloprost expired in September 2004 and the U.S. process patents covering the manufacture of Ventavis will expire in 2007 and 2010. Therefore, we may no longer depend on this composition of matter patent and in the future will not be able to rely on these process patents to exclude competitors from developing iloprost for the treatment of PAH. Further, while Schering AG may have trade secrets relating to the manufacture of Ventavis, such trade secrets may become known or independently discovered or competitors may develop alternative ways to manufacture the drug. All of these factors may harm our competitive position. Our issued patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, any of which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products or limit the term of patent protection that we otherwise may have. 36 Table of Contents We may require additional financing to fund our operations and continue to commercialize Ventavis. We expect that our operating expenses will increase for the next several years, and that we will continue to spend substantial amounts to commercialize Ventavis; invest in its development to, among other things, expand its potential for additional indications and for use in combination with other FDA-approved products, develop dry powder formulations of iloprost, the active ingredient in Ventavis, and decrease its inhalation time; and license or acquire other products or product candidates. We estimate that our existing cash and cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for the foreseeable future. However, our forecast of the period of time through which our cash and cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale will last could vary materially, if Ventavis sales do not grow as expected or if we license or acquire any additional products or product candidates. In any such event, we would likely seek to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings or debt financings. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity or debt securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Any debt financing may involve granting a security interest in all or a portion of our assets or restrictive covenants, including limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Future additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of Ventavis or one or more product candidates. If we fail to attract and retain management and other personnel, we may be unable to successfully acquire or license additional products or product candidates, or continue our development and commercialization activities. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. The loss of services of one or more of our members of senior management could jeopardize, delay or interrupt our efforts to acquire or license additional products or product candidates, successfully complete clinical trials, or further develop and commercialize Ventavis. We do not currently carry “key person” insurance on the lives of members of senior management. There is significant competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. Our offices are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, where competition for personnel with biopharmaceutical skills is intense. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. We have significantly increased the size of our organization and will need to continue to do so, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. We are a small company that significantly increased our number of employees in 2005, from 39 full-time employees as of December 31, 2004 to 85 full-time employees as of December 31, 2005. In order to execute our business strategy, we will need to continue to increase our operations, particularly if we license or acquire additional products or product candidates, including further expanding our employee base of managerial, sales and marketing, clinical and operational personnel. Recent growth has imposed significant added responsibilities on members of management, as will future growth, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Our future financial performance and our ability to further develop and commercialize Ventavis, our ability to license or acquire any future products or product candidates and to develop and commercialize them, and our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to: • manage our clinical trials effectively; 37 Table of Contents • attract and train new personnel and retain newly hired personnel necessary to effectively commercialize Ventavis or any products or product candidates we license or acquire; • integrate additional personnel; and • further develop our administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the euro, and foreign economic market conditions. We purchase Ventavis from Schering AG under a supply contract whose price and payment terms are denominated in euros. In addition, the price of Ventavis in our supply contract is subject to annual adjustment in order to keep pace with inflation or deflation in accordance with the change of the consumer price index for Germany by the German Federal Statistical Office. As a result, a relative weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro may result in increased inventory costs and expenses. We currently do not engage in foreign currency hedging transactions. We may in the future choose to limit our exposure by the purchase of forward foreign exchange contracts or through similar hedging strategies. However, no such currency hedging strategy would fully protect against exchange-related losses. Our orphan drug exclusivity for Ventavis may not provide us with a competitive advantage. Our orphan drug exclusivity for Ventavis for the treatment of PAH is an important element of our competitive strategy because Schering AG’s composition of matter patent for Ventavis expired in September 2004. Any company that obtains the first FDA approval for a designated orphan drug for a rare disease generally receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the designated condition for a period of seven years from approval, which for Ventavis means through December 2011. However, the FDA may permit other companies to market a form of iloprost, the active ingredient in Ventavis, to treat PAH if any such product demonstrates clinical superiority, or if we are unable to provide sufficient drug supply to meet medical needs. More than one product may be approved by the FDA for the same orphan indication or disease as long as the products are different drugs. Any of these FDA actions could create a more competitive market for us. Our orphan drug exclusivity for Ventavis does not apply to drugs to treat PAH that do not contain iloprost, or to drugs containing iloprost that seek approval for uses other than PAH. Our orphan drug exclusivity may thus not ultimately provide us a true competitive advantage, and our business could suffer as a result. Competitors could develop and gain FDA approval of inhaled iloprost for a different indication, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Inhaled iloprost manufactured or distributed by other parties may be approved for different indications in the United States in the future. For example, although we have an exclusive license from Schering AG to commercialize Ventavis in the United States to treat pulmonary hypertension, Schering AG could sell, or license to other companies the right to sell, Ventavis in the United States for other indications. In the event there are other inhaled iloprost products approved by the FDA to treat indications other than those covered by Ventavis, physicians may elect to prescribe a competitor’s inhaled iloprost to treat PAH. This is commonly referred to as off-label use. While under FDA regulations a competitor is not allowed to promote off-label uses of its product, the FDA does not regulate the practice of medicine or the practice of pharmacy. As a result, the FDA cannot direct physicians as to which inhaled iloprost to prescribe to their patients and physicians could prescribe and pharmacists could dispense another iloprost product for PAH even if it were not approved for PAH. Third-party payors could also develop formulary and other reimbursement policies intended to prompt use of another iloprost product instead of Ventavis whether or not that other product were approved by FDA for PAH. We would have limited ability to prevent off-label use of a competitor’s inhaled iloprost to treat PAH. 38 Table of Contents Failure to comply with internal control attestation requirements could lead to loss of public confidence in our financial statements and negatively impact our stock price. Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2005, we are required to include management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to whether our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is fairly stated in all material respects and separately report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 and each year thereafter. If for any future required period we fail to timely complete our assessment on the effectiveness of our internal control, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to our assessment for any required period or reports material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence in our internal control and the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, on December 16, 2004, FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) requires that employee stock-based compensation be measured based on its fair-value on the grant date and treated as an expense that is reflected in the financial statements over the related service period. In April 2005, the SEC adopted an amendment to Rule 4-01(a) of Regulation S-X that delays the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) until the first interim or annual period of the registrant’s first fiscal year beginning on or after June 15, 2005. As a result, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R) as of January 1, 2006. We plan to implement SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective method, under which compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date (a) based on the requirements of SFAS 123(R) for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and (b) based on the previous requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS 123R that remain unvested on the effective date. We expect the adoption of SFAS 123(R) to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for 2006 and subsequent periods. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our board of directors or the direction of the company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include: • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • granting our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. 39 Table of Contents These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our board of directors and may deprive or limit your strategic opportunities to sell your shares. If a company that competes with Ventavis attempts to acquire us, Schering AG’s right of first negotiation could prevent or delay a change of control. If we intend to pursue a transaction where we would be acquired by or otherwise merge with a pharmaceutical company that sells a pulmonary hypertension drug that is directly competitive with Ventavis, Schering AG has a right of first negotiation to acquire our company subject to the terms set forth in our agreement. This may discourage other companies from seeking to acquire us. Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be extremely volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be extremely volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following factors, in addition to the other risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may also have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • announcements concerning product development programs or results of clinical trials by us or our competitors; • regulatory developments and related announcements, including announcements by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies or of the markets generally; • changes in, or our failure to meet or exceed, investors’ and securities analysts’ expectations; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ quarterly or annual operating results; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, or sales by our executive officers, directors or greater than 5% stockholders; • our entering into licenses, strategic partnerships and similar arrangements, or the termination of such arrangements; • acquisition of products or businesses by us or our competitors; • litigation or government inquiries, whether or not meritorious; and • economic and political factors, including natural disasters, wars, terrorism and political unrest. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline, even if our business is doing well. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Sales of a substantial number of these shares in the public market could also impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. 40 Table of Contents Our stock is controlled by a small number of stockholders and the interests of these stockholders could conflict with your interests. As of December 31, 2005, our executive officers, directors, and greater than 5% stockholders beneficially owned in the aggregate 37.2% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they acted together, could significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. Exercise of stock options or any warrants that may be issued by us will cause dilution in net tangible book value. Our stockholders will experience dilution in net tangible book value upon the exercise of options or warrants granted by us. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience additional substantial dilution. Because our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to high volatility, we may be forced to expend money and resources defending securities class action litigation claims. Securities class action litigation actions may be brought against us, particularly following a decline in the market price of our securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because we have experienced greater than average stock price volatility, as have other biotechnology companies in recent years. If we face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 41 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 