Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves significant risks, a number of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following discussion highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on our business, financial condition and future results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted, causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may impact the "forward-looking" statements described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in "forward-looking" statements. Risks Related to Our Business Our long-term success, results of operations and the value of our common stock depend on our ability to successfully combine the TomoTherapy business with our pre-existing business, which may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected. On June 10, 2011, we acquired TomoTherapy, the business of which we are currently combining with our pre-existing business. Our future success, results of operations and the value of our common stock depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating the TomoTherapy business with our pre-existing business. To realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully combine our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. If we are not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and our results of operations and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. The integration process could result in the disruption of existing business, loss of key employees, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees, suppliers and other business partners following the acquisition or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of TomoTherapy into our pre-existing operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition include, among other things: •integrating and optimizing the utilization of the properties, equipment, suppliers, distribution channels, manufacturing, service, marketing, promotion and sales activities and information technologies of the combined company; •consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures of the combined company; •coordinating geographically dispersed organizations of the combined company; •retaining existing customers of, and attracting new customers to, the combined company; and •conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures throughout the combined company. Integration efforts will also divert management attention and resources. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon our results of operations, which may affect adversely the value of our common stock. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. Actual synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than what we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to 34 Table of Contents adequately address these challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate the combined company's operations or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs in connection with the acquisition and integration of TomoTherapy. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of TomoTherapy and our pre-existing operations. Most of these costs will be comprised of facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. We also have incurred and will continue to incur fees and costs related to integration. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the combined company's businesses or we may incur transaction-related costs and charges associated with eliminating redundant expenses or write-offs of impaired assets recorded in connection with the acquisition. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. If the CyberKnife System or TomoTherapy Systems do not achieve widespread market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. Achieving physician, patient, hospital administrator and third-party payor acceptance of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems as preferred methods of tumor treatment will be crucial to our continued success. Physicians will not begin to use or increase the use of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems unless they determine, based on experience, clinical data and other factors, that the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are safe and effective alternatives to current treatment methods. We often need to educate physicians about the use of stereotactic radiosurgery, IGRT and adaptive radiation therapy, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and their related treatment processes outweigh their costs and help train qualified physicians in the skilled use of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. For example, the complexity and dynamic nature of stereotactic radiosurgery and Robotic IMRT as well as adaptive radiation therapy and IGRT, require significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of stereotactic radiosurgery and Robotic IMRT, as well as adaptive radiation therapy and IGRT, and require departures from their customary practices. We have expended and will continue to expend significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of stereotactic radiosurgery and Robotic IMRT as well as adaptive radiation therapy and IGRT generally and to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are major capital purchases, and purchase decisions are greatly influenced by hospital administrators who are subject to increasing pressures to reduce costs. These and other factors, including the following, may affect the rate and level of market acceptance of each of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems: •The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems' price relative to other products or competing treatments; •Our ability to develop new products and enhancements and receive regulatory clearances and approval, if required, to existing products in a timely manner; •Effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; •The impact of the current economic environment on our business, including the postponement by our customers of purchase decisions or required build-outs; •Capital equipment budgets of healthcare institutions; 35 Table of Contents •Increased scrutiny by state boards when evaluating certificates of need requested by purchasing institutions; •Perception by physicians and other members of the healthcare community of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems' safety, efficacy, efficiency and benefits compared to competing technologies or treatments; •Publication in peer-reviewed medical journals of data regarding the successful use and longer term clinical benefits of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems; •Willingness of physicians to adopt new techniques and the ability of physicians to acquire the skills necessary to operate the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems; •Extent of third-party coverage and reimbursement rates, particularly from Medicare, for procedures using the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems; •Development of new products and technologies by our competitors or new treatment alternatives; •Regulatory developments related to manufacturing, marketing and selling the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems both within and outside the United States; •Perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products; and •Unfavorable publicity concerning the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems or radiation-based treatment alternatives. If the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems are unable to achieve or maintain market acceptance, new orders and sales of our systems would be adversely affected, our revenue levels would decrease and our business would be harmed. If we are unable to develop new products or enhance existing products, we may be unable to attract or retain customers. Our success depends on the successful development, regulatory clearance or approval, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems, and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing products. The CyberKnife System and TomoTherapy Systems, which are currently our principal products, are technologically complex and must keep pace with, among other things, the products of our competitors. We are making significant investments in long-term growth initiatives. Such initiatives require significant capital commitments, involvement of senior management and other investments on our part, which we may be unable to recover. Our timeline for the development of new products or enhancements may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. Commercialization of new products may prove challenging, and we may be required to invest more time and money than expected to successfully introduce them. Once introduced, new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete. Compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact the successful implementation of new products or enhancements. Our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products, treatment systems and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, are affected by our ability to: •Properly identify customer needs; •Prove feasibility of new products; •Educate physicians about the use of new products and procedures; 36 Table of Contents •Limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; •Comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes timely and efficiently; •Limit the timing and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances; •Accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; •Price our products competitively; •Manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; •Manage customer acceptance and payment for products; •Manage customer demands for retrofits of both old and new products; and •Anticipate and compete successfully with competitors. Even if customers accept new products or product enhancements, the revenues from these products may not be sufficient to offset the significant costs associated with making them available to customers. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval or clearance for, manufacture or introduce new products, treatment systems or enhancements, the roll-out of which involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the quality system regulation, or QSR, enforced by the FDA. Failure to obtain regulatory approval or clearance for our products or to complete these processes in a timely and efficient manner could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract and retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders, causing our backlog, revenues and operating results to suffer. Siemens AG and Accuray have not made material progress under the sales and R&D collaboration opportunities outlined in the Strategic Alliance Agreement signed in June 2010 and may not make further progress in the future. In June 2010, we entered into a Strategic Alliance Agreement with Siemens AG, or the Alliance Agreement, pursuant to which (1) we granted Siemens certain distribution rights to our CyberKnife Systems, (2) Siemens agreed to incorporate certain Accuray technology into certain of its linac products, the combined products being known as the Cayman Products, and (3) we created a research and development relationship between Accuray and Siemens for the pursuit and implementation of other potential collaboration opportunities in the future. Siemens' right to distribute the CyberKnife System under the Alliance Agreement remains unchanged, though sales activity to date under the Agreement has not been material. We believe that as a result of our acquisition of TomoTherapy, the elements of the Alliance Agreement described in clauses (2) and (3) above are unlikely to develop further. Under the Alliance Agreement, both Siemens and the Company had the right to terminate the Alliance Agreement on written notice within 60 days following the acquisition of or by either party by specified competitors. On August 3, 2011, we entered into an Amendment to the Alliance Agreement with Siemens, which provides that each of the Company's and Siemens' right to terminate the Alliance Agreement as a result of the acquisition of TomoTherapy by the Company is extended until December 31, 2011 in order to allow the Company and Siemens to evaluate the impact of the TomoTherapy acquisition on the arrangements created by the Alliance Agreement. There can be no assurance that the strategic alliance with Siemens AG will be successful or that the economic terms of the Alliance Agreement will ultimately prove to be favorable to us or that Siemens will not terminate the Alliance Agreement as a result of the Company's acquisition of 37 Table of Contents TomoTherapy. We are not able to control the amount and timing of resources that Siemens will devote to the development, sales or marketing of the Cayman Products, the distribution of CyberKnife Systems, or to future collaboration opportunities. Our own business may be disrupted, and we may have to divert attention from our other research and development activities, in order to satisfy our obligations under the Alliance Agreement. We may incur costs in excess of the consideration to be paid to us by Siemens. Even if Siemens and the Company successfully complete development of a product, it may not receive the regulatory approvals necessary to be marketed and sold. Failure to successfully develop, market and sell the product, failure of Siemens to distribute the CyberKnife System, and the failure of us and Siemens to successfully collaborate on future opportunities could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. If we are not able to meet the requirements of our license agreement with the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation (WARF) we could lose access to the technologies licensed thereunder and be unable to manufacture, market or sell the TomoTherapy Systems. We license patents from WARF covering the multi-leaf collimator and other key technologies incorporated into the TomoTherapy Systems under a license agreement that requires us to pay royalties to WARF. In addition, the license agreement obligates us to pursue an agreed development plan and to submit periodic reports, and restricts our ability to take actions to defend the licensed patents. WARF has the right to unilaterally terminate the agreement if we do not meet certain minimum royalty obligations or satisfy other obligations related to our utilization of the technology. If WARF were to terminate the agreement or if we were to otherwise lose the ability to exploit the licensed patents, our competitive advantage would be reduced and we may not be able to find a source to replace the licensed technology. The license agreement reserves to WARF the initial right to defend or prosecute any claim arising with respect to the licensed technology. If WARF does not vigorously defend the patents, we may be required to engage in expensive patent litigation to enforce our rights, and any competitive advantage we have based on the licensed technology may be hampered. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to realize all of the desired benefits from our relationship with Compact Particle Acceleration Corporation ("CPAC"). Since April 2008, TomoTherapy, has been an investor in CPAC to continue development of its research initiative for a compact proton therapy system for the treatment of cancer. CPAC has and is continuing to seek investments from third parties to support the development of this technology. Through TomoTherapy we currently have the option to purchase a portion of the CPAC stock held by CPAC investors in exchange for the right to commercialize the technology in the medical field, and we have the right to exercise this option at any time through April 2015. We may not be able to obtain all of the potential benefits relating to CPAC that we may desire. In addition, CPAC needs additional funding to continue its development efforts. We cannot be certain that CPAC will be able to obtain all of the additional financing required for this project on commercially reasonable terms or that the technology development will be successful. Even if CPAC is able to obtain financing and the technology development is successful, CPAC may not have the resources to commercialize the compact proton system, the market requirements may change such that commercialization is no longer feasible, or we may not be in a position to finance the option to purchase a portion of the CPAC stock held by CPAC investors in exchange for the right to commercialize the technology in the medical field. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain existing research collaboration relationships, enter into new collaboration arrangements in the future or enter into license agreements with our collaborators and others, our ability to enhance our products may be adversely affected. We have entered into a number of research collaboration arrangements with a range of hospitals, cancer treatment centers and academic institutions. These collaborations support our internal research and development capabilities and represent a key element of our ongoing research and development program. Our research collaboration partners may not fulfill all of their obligations under our arrangements with them. If our current research collaborations do not meet our research and development expectations, or if we are unable to enter into additional research collaborations in the future to replace unproductive collaborations or add new collaborations, our ability to enhance our products may be adversely affected. Our inability to successfully collaborate with third parties could increase our development costs, delay new or pending developments and limit the likelihood of successful enhancements to the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems. Our collaboration agreements generally provide that we either own, in the case of our own developments, have the right to use, in the case of joint developments, or have the right to license, in the case of developments by our collaborator, technology developed pursuant to a collaboration. We cannot provide any assurance that we will successfully enter into license agreements with any of our collaborators concerning technology that is jointly developed or developed by the collaborator, which may prevent us from using that technology. If we are unable to enter into exclusive license agreements with a collaborator over technology that is jointly developed with, or solely developed by, the collaborator, the collaborator may be able to use or license the technology to third parties. Furthermore, if we are unable to enter into license agreements with a collaborator for technology that is jointly developed with, or solely developed by, the collaborator, we may be unable to use that technology. In addition, if we are unable to agree with our collaborators concerning ownership or proper inventorship of technology developed under the collaboration agreement, we may be forced to engage in arbitration or litigation to determine the proper ownership or inventorship. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruption of critical information systems could harm our business and financial condition. Information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. We implemented and began use of a new Enterprise Resource Planning, or ERP system effective January 1, 2011. Our initial implementation covered the basic elements of our ERP system. We plan to implement additional capabilities in the future and are in the process of migrating processes and system used by TomoTherapy to the processes and systems used with our new ERP system. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, or if we fail to smoothly manage the new ERP system or its integration with TomoTherapy's processes and systems, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. If our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we internally and externally report our operating results. 39 Table of Contents If we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products, our business will suffer. In order to achieve market acceptance of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, we often need to educate physicians about the use of stereotactic radiosurgery and radiation therapy, convince healthcare payers that the benefits of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and their related treatment processes outweigh their costs and help train qualified physicians in the skilled use of these systems. For example, the complexity and dynamic nature of stereotactic radiosurgery and Robotic IMRT as well as adaptive radiation therapy and IGRT require significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of stereotactic radiosurgery and Robotic IMRT as well as adaptive radiation therapy and IGRT and require departures from their customary practices. In addition, we also must educate clinicians regarding the entire functionality of our radiation therapy systems, including techniques using the full quantitative imaging capabilities of our treatment systems, which enable clinicians to adapt a patient's treatment plan in response to anatomical changes and the cumulative amount of radiation received by specific areas within the patient over the course of treatment. We have expended and will continue to expend significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of stereotactic radiosurgery, Robotic IMRT as well as adaptive radiation therapy and IGRT and to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies. We cannot be sure that any products we develop will gain significant market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense on their education. Failure to gain significant market acceptance would adversely affect our product sales and revenues, harming our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a large accumulated deficit, may incur future losses and may be unable to maintain profitability. As of June 30, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $144.4 million. We may incur net losses in the future, particularly as we increase our manufacturing, research and development, and marketing activities. Our ability to maintain long-term profitability is largely dependent on our ability to successfully market and sell the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and to control our costs and effectively manage our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain profitability. In the event we fail to maintain profitability, our stock price could decline. Multiple factors may adversely affect our ability to fully utilize certain tax loss carryforwards. As of June 30, 2011, we had approximately $116.1 million and $45.9 million in federal and state net operating loss carry forwards, respectively, which expire in varying amounts beginning in 2019 for federal and 2015 for state purposes. Included in the federal and state net operating loss carryforwards is $72.0 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards and $18.0 million of state net operating loss carryforwards from the acquisition of TomoTherapy. The federal and state net operatig loss carryforwards will expire in varying amounts beginning in 2010 for federal purposes and 2015 for state purposes. In addition, as of June 30, 2011, we had federal and state research and development tax credits of approximately $7.6 million and $7.5 million, respectively. The federal research credits will begin to expire in 2025 and the California research credits have no expiration date. Utilization of our net operating loss and credit carry forwards is subject to annual limitation due to the ownership change limitations provided by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. However, none of Accuray and TomoTherapy's federal and state net operating loss carryforwards are expected to expire as a result of the ownership change limitation. 40 Table of Contents We face risks related to the current global economic environment, which could delay or prevent our customers from obtaining financing to purchase the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and implement the required facilities, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The state of the global economy continues to be somewhat uncertain. The current global economic conditions pose a risk that could impact consumer and customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors, including financial institutions. If the current situation deteriorates or does not improve, our business could be negatively affected, including such areas as reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general economy, supplier or customer disruptions and/or temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions through our financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. In addition, due to uncertain credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit, particularly in the United States, some of our customers have been delayed in obtaining, or have not been able to obtain, necessary financing for their purchases of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy systems. In addition, some of our customers have been delayed in obtaining, or have not been able to obtain, necessary financing for the construction or renovation of facilities to house CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, the cost of which typically range from approximately $0.35 million for a TomoTherapy System and $0.5 million for a CyberKnife System, for customers who makes only minor renovations to existing facilities, to up to $2 million for a TomoTherapy System and $2.5 million for a CyberKnife System, for customers who build entirely new facilities that include additional features not necessarily required for the operation of a TomoTherapy or CyberKnife System (e.g., audio visual equipment). This range is based solely on information provided to us by customers and will vary by geography and the needs of a particular customer. To date, these delays have primarily affected customers that were planning to operate freestanding CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems centers, rather than hospital-based customers. These delays have in some instances led to our customers postponing the shipment and installation of previously ordered systems or cancelling their system orders, and may cause other customers to postpone their system installation or to cancel their agreements with us. An increase in delays and order cancellations of this nature would adversely affect our product sales, backlog and revenues, and therefore harm our business and results of operations. The high unit price of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, as well as other factors, may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our operating results, which could adversely affect our stock price. Because of the high unit price of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and the relatively small number of units installed each quarter, each installation of a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System can represent a significant percentage of our revenue for a particular quarter. Therefore, if we do not install a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System when anticipated, our operating results will vary significantly from our expectations. This is of particular concern in the current volatile economic environment, where we have had experiences with customers cancelling or postponing orders for our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and delaying any required build-outs. These fluctuations and other potential fluctuations mean that you should not rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. In particular, in addition to the other risk factors described above and below, factors which may contribute to these fluctuations include: •Timing of when we are able to recognize revenue associated with sales of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, which varies depending upon the terms of the applicable sales and service contracts; •The proportion of revenue attributable to purchases of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems which are associated with our shared ownership program and our legacy service plans; •Timing and level of expenditures associated with new product development activities; 41 Table of Contents •Regulatory requirements in some states for a certificate of need prior to the installation of a radiation device; •Delays in shipment due, for example, to unanticipated construction delays at customer locations where our products are to be installed, cancellations by customers, natural disasters or labor disturbances; •Delays in our manufacturing processes or unexpected manufacturing difficulties; •Timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product upgrades by us and by our competitors; •Timing and level of expenditures associated with expansion of sales and marketing activities such as trade shows and our overall operations; •Fluctuations in our gross margins and the factors that contribute to such fluctuations, as described in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; •How well we execute on our strategic and operating plans; •The extent to which our products gain market acceptance; •Actions relating to regulatory matters; •Demand for our products; •Our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; •Our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; •Disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; and •Changes in third party coverage and reimbursement, changes in government regulation, or a change in a customer's financial condition or ability to obtain financing. These factors are difficult to forecast and may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and substantial variation from our projections, particularly during the periods in which our sales volume is low. These fluctuations may cause volatility in our stock price. Because the majority of our revenue is derived from sales of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, and because we experience a long and variable sales and installation cycle, our quarterly results may be inconsistent from period to period. These fluctuations in revenue may make it difficult to predict our revenue. Our primary products are the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. We expect to generate substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future from sales of and service contracts for the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems have lengthy sales and purchase order cycles because they are major capital equipment items and require the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. Selling our systems, from first contact with a potential customer to a complete order, generally spans six months to two years and involves personnel with multiple skills. The sales process in the United States typically begins with pre-selling activity followed by sales presentations and other sales-related activities. After the customer has expressed an intention to purchase a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, we negotiate and enter into a definitive purchase contract with the customer. Typically, following the execution of the contract, the customer begins the building or renovation of a facility to house the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System, which together with the subsequent installation of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System, can take up to 24 months 42 Table of Contents to complete. During the period prior to installation, the customer must build a radiation-shielded facility to house its CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System. In order to construct this facility, the customer must typically obtain radiation device installation permits, which are granted by state and local government bodies, each of which may have different criteria for permit issuance. If a permit were denied for installation at a specific hospital or treatment center, our CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System could not be installed at that location. In addition, some of our customers are cancer centers or facilities that are new, and in these cases it may be necessary for the entire facility to be completed before the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System can be installed, which can result in additional construction and installation delays. Our sales and installations of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems tend to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter. Under our revenue recognition policy, we generally do not recognize revenue attributable to a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System purchase until after installation has occurred, if we are responsible for providing installation, or delivery. For international sales through distributors, we typically recognize revenue when the system is shipped with evidence of sell through to the end user. Under our current forms of purchase and service contracts, we record a majority of the purchase price as revenue for a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System upon installation or delivery of the system. Events beyond our control may delay installation and the satisfaction of contingencies required to receive cash inflows and recognize revenue, such as: •Procurement delay; •Customer funding or financing delay; •Delay in or unforeseen difficulties related to customers organizing legal entities and obtaining financing for CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System acquisition; •Construction delay; •Delay pending customer receipt of regulatory approvals, including, for example, certificates of need; •Delay pending customer receipt of a building or radiation device installation permit; and •Delay caused by weather or natural disaster. In the event that a customer does not, for any of the reasons above or other reasons, proceed with installation of a system after entering into a purchase contract, we would only recognize up to the deposit portion of the purchase price as revenue, unless the deposit was refunded to the customer. Therefore, the long sales cycle together with delays in the shipment and installation of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems or customer cancellations would adversely affect our cash flows and revenue, which would harm our results of operations and may result in significant fluctuations in our reporting of quarterly revenues. Because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. These fluctuations also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. Our ability to increase our profitability depends in part on maintaining or increasing our gross margins on product sales and service, which we may not be able to achieve. A number of factors may result in adverse impacts to our gross margins, including: •Actions related to new products, pricing and marketing programs; •The timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; •Sales discounts; 43 Table of Contents •Changes in product configurations; •Increases in material or labor costs; •Increased service or warranty costs or the failure to reduce service or warranty costs, especially with respect to the TomoTherapy Systems; •Excess inventory and inventory holding charges; •Obsolescence charges; •Our ability to reduce production costs; •Increased price competition; •Variation in the margins across products installed in a particular period; and •How well we execute on our strategic and operating plans. We may not be able to achieve profitability with respect to our service business relating to TomoTherapy's Systems. Our overall service operations relating to TomoTherapy Systems currently are not profitable. Our ability to increase the profitability of this service business depends in part on reducing warranty and service costs for the TomoTherapy Systems and improving economies of scale in service operations. We may be unable to achieve these reductions in costs or improve the reliability of the TomoTherapy Systems during the time period expected or at all, and this could adversely affect our results of operations. If third-party payors do not provide sufficient coverage and reimbursement to healthcare providers for use of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, demand for our products and our revenue could be adversely affected. Our customers rely significantly on reimbursement for CyberKnife and TomoTherapy procedures. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in significant part on the extent to which public and private third-party payors provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for procedures that are performed with our products. Third party payors, and in particular managed care organizations, challenge the prices charged for medical products and services and institute cost containment measures to control or significantly influence the purchase of medical products and services. If reimbursement policies or other cost containment measures are instituted in a manner that significantly reduces the coverage for or payment for our procedures that are performed with our products, our existing customers may not continue using our products or may decrease their use of our products, and we may have difficulty obtaining new customers. Such actions would likely have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In November 2010, the centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, issued the 2011 Medicare payment rates. CMS reviews such rates annually, and we expect CMS to issue the 2012 payment rates in late November 2011. If in the future CMS significantly decreases reimbursement rates for stereotactic radiosurgery, Robotic IMRT or radiation therapy services, or if other cost containment measures are implemented in the United States or elsewhere, such changes could discourage cancer treatment centers and hospitals from purchasing our products. We have seen our customers' decision making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding the proposed reduction in Medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery at freestanding clinics in the United States and for physician reimbursement for radiation oncology, which has resulted in delay and sometimes even failure to purchase our products. 44 Table of Contents We rely on a third party to perform spare parts shipping and other logistics functions on our behalf. A failure or disruption at our logistics provider would adversely impact our business. Customer service is a critical element of our sales strategy. As of June 30, 2011, third-party logistics providers stored most of our spare parts inventory in depots around the world and performed a significant portion of our spare parts logistics and shipping activities. If any of our logistics providers suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its operations, or we have to change and qualify alternative logistics providers for our spare parts, shipments of spare parts to our customers may be delayed and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our industry is subject to intense competition and rapid technological change, which may result in products or new tumor treatments that are superior to the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. If we are unable to anticipate or keep pace with changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands, our products may become less useful or obsolete and our operating results will suffer. The medical device industry in general and the non-invasive cancer treatment field in particular are subject to intense and increasing competition and rapidly evolving technologies. Because our products often have long development and government approval cycles, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands. To compete successfully, we will need to continue to demonstrate the advantages of our products and technologies over well-established alternative procedures, products and technologies, and convince physicians and other healthcare decision makers of the advantages of our products and technologies. Traditional surgery and other forms of minimally invasive procedures, brachytherapy, chemotherapy or other drugs remain alternatives to the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. We consider the competition for the TomoTherapy Systems to be existing radiation therapy systems, primarily using C-arm linacs, sold by large, well-capitalized companies with significantly greater market share and resources than we have. Several of these competitors are also able to leverage their fixed sales, service and other costs over multiple products or product lines. In particular, we compete with a number of existing radiation therapy equipment companies including Varian Medical Systems, Inc., Elekta AB, Siemens Medical Solutions, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, and to a lesser extent, BrainLAB AG. Varian Medical Systems has been the leader in the external beam radiation therapy market for many years and has the majority market share for radiation therapy systems worldwide. In 2008, Varian began selling and installing RapidArc technology. The RapidArc technology purports to be able to deliver image-guided, intensity-modulated radiation therapy more rapidly than other similar systems, including the TomoTherapy Systems, and Varian has maintained a strong marketing campaign claiming this technology has the same capabilities as, or better capabilities than, our TomoTherapy Systems. In April, 2010, Varian announced the launch of a new line of TrueBeam systems, which Varian claims are specifically designed for high-precision image-guided radiotherapy and radiosurgery. Varian claims this new platform is designed to be versatile and can be used for all forms of advanced external beam radiation therapy. The CyberKnife System also competes directly with conventional linac based radiation therapy systems primarily from Elekta AB, BrainLAB AG, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Varian Medical Systems. At least one other company has announced that it is developing a product that, if introduced, would be directly competitive with the CyberKnife. In general, because of aging demographics and attractive market factors in oncology, we believe that new competitors will enter the radiosurgery and radiation therapy markets in the years ahead. The CyberKnife System has not typically been used to perform traditional radiation therapy and therefore competition has been limited with conventional medical linacs that perform traditional radiation therapy. However, the CyberKnife VSI System, which we introduced in November of 2009, may be used to perform Robotic IMRT, an advanced method of traditional radiation therapy, which products of Elekta, Siemens and Varian are also capable of 45 Table of Contents performing. In addition, some manufacturers of conventional linac based radiation therapy systems, including Varian and Elekta, have products that can be used in combination with body and/or head frames and image-guidance systems to perform radiosurgery. Furthermore, many government, academic and business entities are investing substantial resources in research and development of cancer treatments, including surgical approaches, radiation treatment, MRI-guided radiotherapy systems, proton therapy systems, drug treatment, gene therapy, which is the treatment of disease by replacing, manipulating, or supplementing nonfunctional genes, and other approaches. Moreover, at least one other company has announced that it is developing a product that, if introduced, would be directly competitive with the CyberKnife System. Successful developments that result in new approaches for the treatment of cancer could reduce the attractiveness of our products or render them obsolete. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to establish and maintain a competitive position in current and future technologies. Rapid technological development may render the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and their technologies obsolete. Many of our competitors have or may have greater corporate, financial, operational, sales and marketing resources, and more experience and resources in research and development than we have. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our products or that would render our technologies and products obsolete. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with our technologies. Our competitive position also depends on: •Widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the radiation oncology and cancer therapy markets of our products; •The development of new technologies that improve the effectiveness and productivity of the CyberKnife System radiosurgery process and the TomoTherapy System radiation therapy process; •Product and procedure coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, insurance companies and others; •Availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, insurance companies and others for procedures performed using our systems; •Properly identifying customer needs and delivering new products or product enhancements to address those needs; •Published studies supporting the efficacy and safety and long-term clinical benefit of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems; •Limiting the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; •Limiting the timing and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances; •The manufacture and delivery of our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predicting and controlling costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; •Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; •The extent of our intellectual property protection or our ability to otherwise develop proprietary products and processes; 46 Table of Contents •Securing sufficient capital resources to expand both our continued research and development, and sales and marketing efforts; and •Obtaining any necessary United States or foreign marketing approvals or clearances. If customers choose not to purchase a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System or choose to purchase our competitors' products, our revenue and market share would be adversely impacted, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, companies in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology fields may seek to develop methods of cancer treatment that are more effective than radiation therapy and radiosurgery, resulting in decreased demand for the TomoTherapy or CyberKnife Systems. Because the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems have a long development cycle and because it can take significant time to receive government approvals or clearances for changes to the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation. Accordingly, if we are unable to anticipate and keep pace with new innovations in the cancer treatment market, the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems or an aspect of their functionality may be rendered obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our competitors may compete by changing their pricing model or by lowering the price of their conventional radiation therapy systems or ancillary supplies. If such pricing strategies are implemented, there could be downward pressure on the price of radiation therapy and radiosurgery systems. If we are unable to maintain or increase our selling prices, our gross margins will decline, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to protect from fraudulent, illegal or unauthorized transactions. If we cannot provide effective controls and reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. Our management determined, as of June 30, 2011, that we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. See Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including a failure to implement corrective actions to address the control deficiencies identified above, could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results and our stock price, and we could be subject to stockholder litigation. In addition, remedying this material weakness may require significant additional financial and managerial resources. We may have difficulties in determining the effectiveness of our internal control due to our complex financial model. The complexity of our financial model contributes to our need for effective financial reporting systems and internal controls. We recognize revenue from a range of transactions including CyberKnife and TomoTherapy System sales, our shared ownership program and services. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are complex products that contain both hardware and software elements. The complexity of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and of our financial model pertaining to revenue recognition requires us to process a broader range of financial transactions than would be required by a company with a less complex financial model. Accordingly, deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls would likely impact us more significantly than they would impact a company with 47 Table of Contents a less complex financial model. If we were to find that our internal controls were deficient, we could be required to amend or restate historical or pro forma financial statements, which would likely have a negative impact on our stock price. Our management determined, as of June 30, 2011, that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. See Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our reliance on single source suppliers for critical components of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely and cost effective manner. We currently depend on single source suppliers for some of the critical components necessary for the assembly of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy System, including, with respect to the CyberKnife System, the robotic manipulator, imaging plates, treatment table, robotic couch and magnetron, which creates the microwaves for use in the linac, and, with respect to the TomoTherapy Systems, the ring gantry, the solid state modulator, the radiation detector and the magnetron. If any single source suppliers were to cease delivering components to us or fail to provide the components to our specifications and on a timely basis, we might be required to find alternative sources for these components. We may have difficulty or be unable to find alternative sources for these components. As a result, we may be unable to meet the demand for the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, which could harm our ability to generate revenue and damage our reputation. Even if we do find alternate suppliers, we will be required to qualify any such alternate suppliers and we would likely experience a lengthy delay in our manufacturing processes or a cessation in production, which would result in delays of shipment to end users. We cannot assure you that our single source suppliers will be able or willing to meet our future demands. We generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory, which makes us even more susceptible to harm if a single source supplier fails to deliver components on a timely basis. Furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a critical component of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities, procedures and operations that comply with our quality and applicable regulatory requirements. We also will be required to assess the new manufacturer's compliance with all applicable regulations and guidelines, which could further impede our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner. If the change in manufacturer results in a significant change to the product, a new 510(k) clearance would be necessary, which would likely cause substantial delays. The disruption or termination of the supply of key components for the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems could harm our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget, harm our ability to generate revenue, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. It is difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technologies, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our success depends significantly on our ability to obtain, maintain and protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. Patents and other proprietary rights provide uncertain protections, and we may be unable to protect our intellectual property. For example, we may be unsuccessful in defending our patents and other proprietary rights against third party challenges. As key patents expire, our ability to prevent competitors from copying our technology may be limited. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. These measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. If these measures do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. Although we have attempted to obtain patent coverage for our technology where available and appropriate, there are aspects of the technology for which patent coverage was never sought or never received. There are also 48 Table of Contents countries in which we sell or intend to sell the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems but have no patents or pending patent applications. Our ability to prevent others from making or selling duplicate or similar technologies will be impaired in those countries in which we have no patent protection. Although we have several issued patents in the United States and in foreign countries protecting aspects of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, our pending United States and foreign patent applications may not issue, may issue only with limited coverage or may issue and be subsequently successfully challenged by others and held invalid or unenforceable. Similarly, our issued patents and those of our licensors may not provide us with any competitive advantages. Competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products which provide outcomes comparable or superior to ours. Our patents may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties, and others may challenge the inventorship or ownership of our patents and pending patent applications. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be difficult and time consuming. Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be expensive and time consuming and could divert our management's attention from our core business. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against a challenge. In addition, we may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We also license patent and other proprietary rights to aspects of our technology to third parties in fields where we currently do not operate as well as in fields where we currently do operate. Disputes with our licensees may arise regarding the scope and content of these licenses. Further, our ability to expand into additional fields with our technologies may be restricted by our existing licenses or licenses we may grant to third parties in the future. In October 2006, January 2007 and February 2007, we received correspondence from American Science and Engineering, Inc., or AS&E, expressing concerns that we may be using certain intellectual property we acquired from AS&E through the HES acquisition in a manner that breaches, or may breach, our contractual obligations under a license agreement with them in certain non-medical fields. The intellectual property at issue relates to the development of a next-generation linac that could be used for medical as well as non-medical purposes. We are developing the technology used in the next-generation linac independently from the intellectual property we obtained from the HES acquisition. In January of 2010, we entered into a Supply Agreement with AS&E, pursuant to which AS&E has acknowledged and agreed that our use of the intellectual property at issue did not breach or contravene the license agreement. The policies we have in place to protect our trade secrets may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our trade secrets by others. In addition, confidentiality agreements executed by our employees, consultants and advisors may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Litigating a trade secret claim is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge methods and know-how. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to prevent competitors from using our own inventions and intellectual property to compete against us, and our business may be harmed. 49 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the medical device industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other medical equipment or biotechnology companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend or against these claims. For example, on September 3, 2009, Best Medical International, Inc. ("Best Medical") filed a lawsuit against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania, claiming the Company induced certain individuals to leave the employment of Best Medical and join the Company in order to gain access to Best Medical's confidential information and trade secrets. We filed a motion for summary judgment on May 20, 2011. Best Medical filed a response on June 21, 2011, and we filed a response to their response on July 8, 2011. We are now awaiting a ruling by the court. Best Medical is seeking monetary damages and other relief. Even if we are successful in defending against claims of this nature, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our product. The medical device industry is characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, the field of radiation treatment of cancer is well established and crowded with the intellectual property of competitors and others. We also expect that other participants will enter the field. A number of companies in our market, as well as universities and research institutions, have issued patents and have filed patent applications which relate to the use of radiation therapy and stereotactic radiosurgery to treat cancerous and benign tumors. Determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of patent litigation actions is often uncertain. We have not conducted an extensive search of patents issued to third parties, and no assurance can be given that third party patents containing claims covering our products, parts of our products, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas or fields, our competitors or other third parties may assert that our products and the methods we employ in the use of our products are covered by United States or foreign patents held by them. For example, on August 6, 2010, Best Medical International, Inc., or Best Medical, filed a lawsuit against Accuray in the U.S. District court for the Western District of Pennsylvania, claiming Accuray has infringed U.S. Patent No. 5,596,619, a patent that Best Medical alleges protects a method and apparatus for conformal radiation therapy, and on December 16, 2010, Best Medical filed an amended complaint, claiming that the Company also infringes U.S. Patent Nos. 6,038,283 and 7,266,175, both of which Best Medical alleges cover methods and apparatus for conformal radiation therapy. On March 9, 2011, the Court dismissed with prejudice all counts against the Company, except for two counts of alleged willful infringement of two of the patents. The Court issued a Scheduling Order on May 12, 2011 appointing a special master for claim construction, and setting a claim construction hearing on January 10, 2012. Best Medical moved to voluntarily dismiss one of the two remaining patents on June 28, 2011, which the court granted on June 30, 2011, leaving only one patent at issue in the case. On September 1, 2011, the Court modified its Scheduling Order, setting a claim construction hearing on January 24-25, 2012. Best Medical is seeking declaratory and injunctive relief as well as unspecified compensatory and treble damages and other relief. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue and because publication schedules for pending applications vary by jurisdiction, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, and which may result in issued patents which our current or future products infringe. Also, because the claims of published patent applications can change between publication and patent 50 Table of Contents grant, there may be published patent applications that may ultimately issue with claims that we infringe. There could also be existing patents that one or more of our products or parts may infringe and of which we are unaware. As the number of competitors in the market for less invasive cancer treatment alternatives grows, and as the number of patents issued in this area grows, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us increases. Regardless of the merit of infringement claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. In the event that we become subject to a patent infringement or other intellectual property lawsuit and if the relevant patents or other intellectual property were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe or violate the terms of a license to which we are a party, we could be prevented from selling our products unless we could obtain a license or were able to redesign the product to avoid infringement. Required licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we were unable to obtain a license or successfully redesign our system, we might be prevented from selling our system. If there is an allegation or determination that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of a competitor or other person, we may be required to pay damages, or a settlement or ongoing royalties. In these circumstances, we may be unable to sell our products at competitive prices or at all, our business and operating results could be harmed. We could become subject to product liability claims, product recalls, other field actions and warranty claims that could be expensive, divert management's attention and harm our business. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical device products. We may be held liable if a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System causes injury or death or is found otherwise unsuitable during usage. Our products incorporate sophisticated components and computer software. Complex software can contain errors, particularly when first introduced. In addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after installation. Because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical and therapeutic procedures involving delivery of radiation to the body, defects, even if small, could result in a number of complications, some of which could be serious and could harm or kill patients. Any weaknesses in training and services associated with our products may also be subject to product liability lawsuits. It is also possible that defects in the design, manufacture or labeling of our products might necessitate a product recall or other field corrective action, which may result in warranty claims beyond our expectations and may harm our reputation and create bad publicity. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. We may also be subject to claims for property damage or economic loss related to, or resulting from, any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products, or any professional services rendered in conjunction with our products. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. If sales of our products increase or we suffer future product liability claims, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or with adequate amounts. A product liability claim, any product recalls or other field actions or excessive warranty claims, whether arising from defects in design or manufacture or labeling, could negatively affect our sales or require a change in the design, manufacturing process or the indications for which the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems may be used, any of which could harm our reputation and business and result in a decline in revenue. 51 Table of Contents In addition, if a product we designed or manufactured is defective, whether due to design or manufacturing, or labeling defects, improper use of the product or other reasons, we may be required to notify regulatory authorities and/or to recall the product, possibly at our expense. We have voluntarily conducted recalls and product corrections in the past, including two such recalls for the CyberKnife System, and four such recalls for the TomoTherapy system, during fiscal 2011. Each of these recalls was initiated by Accuray or TomoTherapy. The probability of serious adverse health consequences from these recalls is considered remote, and the costs associated with each such recall were not material. A required notification to a regulatory authority or recall could result in an investigation by regulatory authorities of our products, which could in turn result in required recalls, restrictions on the sale of the products or other civil or criminal penalties. The adverse publicity resulting from any of these actions could cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. These investigations or recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity or termination of customer contracts, could result in our incurring substantial costs, losing revenues and damaging our reputation, each of which would harm our business. The safety and efficacy of our products for certain uses is not yet supported by long-term clinical data, and our products may therefore prove to be less safe and effective than initially thought. Although we believe that the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems have advantages over competing products and technologies, we do not have sufficient clinical data demonstrating these advantages for all tumor indications. For example, because our CyberKnife procedures are relatively new, we have limited clinical data relating to the effectiveness of the CyberKnife System as a means of controlling the growth of cancer at a particular body site. In addition, we have only limited five-year patient survival rate data, which is a common long-term measure of clinical effectiveness in cancer treatment. Further, future patient studies or clinical experience may indicate that treatment with the CyberKnife System does not improve patient survival or outcomes. Likewise, because the TomoTherapy System has only been on the market since 2003, we have limited complication or patient survival rate data with respect to treatment using the system. In addition, while the effectiveness of radiation therapy is well understood, there is a growing but still limited number of peer-reviewed medical journal publications regarding the efficacy of highly conformal treatment such as that delivered by the TomoTherapy System. If future patient studies or clinical experience do not support our beliefs that the TomoTherapy System offers a more advantageous treatment for a wide variety of cancer types, use of the system could fail to increase or could decrease, and our business would therefore be adversely affected. Such results could slow the adoption of our products by physicians, significantly reduce our ability to achieve expected revenues and could prevent us from becoming profitable. In addition, if future results and experience indicate that our products cause unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects, the FDA could rescind our clearances, our reputation with physicians, patients and others may suffer and we could be subject to significant legal liability. The CyberKnife System has been in use for a limited period of time for uses outside the brain, and the medical community has not yet developed a large quantity of peer-reviewed literature that supports safe and effective use in those locations in the body. The CyberKnife System was initially cleared by a number of regulatory authorities for the treatment of tumors in the brain and neck. More recently, the CyberKnife System has been cleared in the United States to treat tumors anywhere in the body where radiation is indicated, and our future growth is dependent in large part on continued growth in full body use of the system. Currently, however, there are a limited number of peer-reviewed medical journal publications regarding the safety and efficacy of the CyberKnife System for treatment of tumors outside the brain or spine. If later studies show that the CyberKnife system is less effective or less safe with respect to particular types of 52 Table of Contents solid tumors, or in the event clinical studies do not achieve the results anticipated at the outset of the study, use of the CyberKnife System could fail to increase or could decrease and our growth and operating results would therefore be harmed. Any failure in our physician training efforts could result in potential liabilities. We rely on physicians to devote adequate time to learn to use our products. If physicians are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. This may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury and related liability or negative publicity which could have an adverse effect on our product sales. International sales of our products account for a significant portion of our revenue, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. Our international sales have increased over the last four fiscal years. The percentage of our revenue derived from sales outside of the United States was 45% in 2011, 34% in 2010, and 27% in 2009. To accommodate our international sales, we have invested significant financial and management resources to develop an international infrastructure that will meet the needs of our customers. We anticipate that a significant portion of our revenue will continue to be derived from sales of our products in foreign markets and that the percentage of our overall revenue that is derived from these markets may continue to increase. This revenue and related operations will therefore continue to be subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: •Economic or political instability; •Shipping delays; •Changes in foreign regulatory laws governing, among other matters, the clearance, approval and sales of medical devices; •The potential failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements to market our products on a timely basis or at all; •Difficulties in enforcing agreements with and collecting receivables from customers outside the United States; •Longer payment cycles associated with many customers outside the United States; •Adequate coverage and reimbursement for the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy treatment procedures outside the United States; •Failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property; •Protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors; •The possibility that foreign countries may impose additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade; •Failure of Accuray employees or distributors to comply with export laws and requirements which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products; •The expense and difficulty of establishing and managing facilities and operations in foreign markets; •Building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations; •Risks relating to foreign currency, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and 53 Table of Contents •Contractual provisions governed by foreign laws and various trade restrictions, including U.S. prohibitions and restrictions on exports of certain products and technologies to certain nations. Our inability to overcome these obstacles could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Even if we are successful in managing these obstacles, our partners internationally are subject to these same risks and may not be able to manage these obstacles effectively. Our international operations are also subject to laws regarding the conduct of business overseas, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and the recently adopted U.K. Bribery Act of 2010. The FCPA prohibits the provision of illegal or improper inducements to foreign government officials in connection with the obtaining of business overseas. Violations of the FCPA or other similar laws by us or any of our employees, executive officers, distributors or other agents could subject us or the individuals involved to criminal or civil liability and could therefore materially harm our business. In addition, future imposition of, or significant increases in, the level of customs duties, export quotas, regulatory restrictions or trade restrictions could materially harm our business. Our results may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Currently, the majority of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could require us to reduce our sales price or make our products less competitive in international markets. Also, if our international sales increase, we may enter into a greater number of transactions denominated in non-U.S. dollars, which would expose us to foreign currency risks, including changes in currency exchange rates. If we are unable to address these risks and challenges effectively, our international operations may not be successful and our business would be materially harmed. We depend on third-party distributors to market and distribute our products in international markets. If our distributors fail to successfully market and distribute our products, our business will be materially harmed. We depend on a limited number of distributors in our international markets. We have maintained both the distributors we had prior to the acquisition of TomoTherapy as well as TomoTherapy's distributors, as product-specific distributors of our systems. We are evaluating whether to consolidate distribution channels in the jurisdictions in which we have multiple distributors. We cannot control the efforts and resources our third-party distributors will devote to marketing the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems. Our distributors may not be able to successfully market and sell the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, may not devote sufficient time and resources to support the marketing and selling efforts and may not market the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems at prices that will permit the product to develop, achieve or sustain market acceptance. In some jurisdictions, we rely on our distributors to manage the regulatory process and we are dependent on their ability to do so effectively. For example, our regulatory approval in Japan was suspended for a period of twelve months during 2003 as a result of a failure of our former CyberKnife System distributor to coordinate product modifications and obtain necessary regulatory clearances in a timely manner. As a result, the CyberKnife System was recalled in Japan and our former Japanese distributor was told to stop selling the CyberKnife System. In response, we retained a regulatory consultant who was not affiliated with our former Japanese distributor and worked with the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare and applied for, and received, approval to sell an updated version of the CyberKnife System under the name of CyberKnife II in Japan. By working with a new distributor, Chiyoda Technol Corporation, we were able to begin distributing the CyberKnife II System in 2004 with no probationary period. In addition, if a distributor is terminated by us or goes out of business, it may take us a period of time to locate an alternative distributor, to seek appropriate regulatory approvals and to train its personnel to market the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, and our ability to sell and service the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems in the region formerly serviced by such terminated distributor could be 54 Table of Contents materially adversely affected. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our revenue from international markets, increase our costs in those markets or damage our reputation. If we are unable to attract additional international distributors, our international revenue may not grow. If our distributors experience difficulties, do not actively market the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems or do not otherwise perform under our distribution agreements, our potential for revenue and gross margins from international markets may be dramatically reduced, and our business could be harmed. Finally, our efforts to consolidate distributors, if any, may not prove to be successful and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited experience and capability in manufacturing. If we encounter manufacturing problems, or if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or foreign manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, which would result in delays and lost revenue. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are complex, and require the integration of a number of components from several sources of supply. We must manufacture and assemble these complex systems in commercial quantities in compliance with strictly enforced regulatory requirements and at an acceptable cost. We have a limited history of manufacturing commercial quantities of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. In particular, we manufacture compact linacs as a component of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. Our linac components are extremely complex devices and require significant expertise to manufacture, and as a result of our limited manufacturing experience we may have difficulty producing needed materials in a commercially viable manner. We may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, including problems with quality control and assurance, component supply shortages, increased costs, shortages of qualified personnel and/or difficulties associated with compliance with local, state, federal and foreign regulatory requirements. If our manufacturing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner which in turn may have a negative effect on our financial results and overall business. Conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may adversely affect our financial results. Our manufacturing processes and the manufacturing processes of our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production processes, controls, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. Furthermore, we are required to verify that our suppliers maintain facilities, procedures and operations that comply with our quality requirements. We are also subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices, and we are required to comply with International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, quality system standards in order to produce products for sale in Europe, as well as various other foreign laws and regulations. Because our manufacturing processes include diagnostic and therapeutic X-ray equipment and laser equipment, we are subject to the electronic product radiation control provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which requires that we file reports with the FDA, applicable states and our customers regarding the distribution, manufacturing and installation of these types of equipment. The FDA enforces the QSR and the electronic product radiation control provisions through periodic inspections, some of which may be unannounced. We have been, and anticipate in the future to be, subject to such inspections. FDA inspections usually occur every two to three years. During such inspections, the FDA may issue Inspectional Observations on Form FDA 483, listing instances where the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and procedures, or warning letters. Our Sunnyvale facility, where we manufacture the CyberKnife System, was most recently inspected by the FDA in 2011. The 2011 inspection resulted in several observations. The initial classification of the inspection is considered to be Voluntary Action Indicated. We have undertaken corrective action in response to the FDA's observations. 55 Table of Contents If a manufacturer does not adequately address the observations, the FDA may take enforcement action against the manufacturer, including the imposition of fines, restriction of the ability to export product, total shutdown of production facilities and criminal prosecution. If we or a third-party supplier receive a Form FDA 483 classified as Official Action Indicated, fail to pass a QSR inspection, or fail to comply with these, ISO and other applicable regulatory requirements, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing operations could be delayed. Our failure to take prompt and satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse inspection or our failure to comply with applicable standards could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, which would cause our sales and business to suffer. In addition, because some foreign regulatory approvals are based on approvals or clearances from the FDA, any failure to comply with FDA requirements may also disrupt our sales of products in other countries. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other governmental authorities would agree with our interpretation of applicable regulatory requirements or that we or our third-party suppliers have in all instances fully complied with all applicable requirements. If any of these events occurs, our reputation could be harmed, we could lose customers and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot achieve the required level and quality of production, we may need to outsource production or rely on licensing and other arrangements with third parties who possess sufficient manufacturing facilities and capabilities in compliance with regulatory requirements. Even if we could outsource needed production or enter into licensing or other third party arrangements, this could reduce our gross margin and expose us to the risks inherent in relying on others. We also cannot assure you that our suppliers will deliver an adequate supply of required components on a timely basis or that they will adequately comply with the QSR. Failure to obtain these components on a timely basis would disrupt our manufacturing processes and increase our costs, which would harm our operating results. We depend on key employees, the loss of whom would adversely affect our business. If we fail to attract and retain employees with the expertise required for our business, we may be unable to continue to grow our business. We are highly dependent on the members of our senior management, operations and research and development staff. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to retain these key employees and to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the medical device industry, particularly in northern California and in Madison, Wisconsin, is intense, and finding and retaining qualified personnel with experience in our industry is very difficult. We believe there are only a limited number of individuals with the requisite skills to serve in many of our key positions and we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. It is increasingly difficult to hire and retain these persons, and we may be unable to replace key persons if they leave or fill new positions requiring key persons with appropriate experience. A significant portion of our compensation to our key employees is in the form of stock option grants. A prolonged depression in our stock price could make it difficult for us to retain our employees and recruit additional qualified personnel. We do not maintain, and do not currently intend to obtain, key employee life insurance on any of our personnel. If we fail to hire and retain personnel in key positions, we may be unable to continue to grow our business successfully. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business may be significantly harmed. In order to implement our business strategy, we expect continued growth in our infrastructure requirements, particularly as we expand our manufacturing and research and development capacities. To manage our growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our management, operational and 56 Table of Contents financial systems, hire and train additional qualified personnel, scale-up our manufacturing capacity and expand our marketing and distribution capabilities. Our manufacturing, assembly and installation process is complex and occurs over many months, and we must effectively scale this entire process to satisfy customer expectations and changes in demand. Further, to accommodate our growth and compete effectively, we will be required to improve our information systems. We cannot be certain that our personnel, systems, procedures and internal controls will be adequate to support our future operations. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our business will suffer. Changes in interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results. We prepare our financial statements to conform with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. A change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Additionally, as we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. For example, due to the significance of the software component in certain of our products, we are currently bound by the software revenue recognition rules for a portion of our business. We adopted ASU 2009-13 and ASU 2009-14 in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and the impact of the adoption of ASU 2009-13 and ASU 2009-14 on our consolidated financial statements has been assessed at Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. The application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of our common stock could suffer or become more volatile as a result. As a strategy to assist our sales efforts, we may offer extended payment terms, which may potentially result in higher Days Sales Outstanding and greater payment defaults. We offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in some circumstances. As of June 30, 2011, customer contracts with extended payment terms of more than one year amounted to less than 2% of our accounts receivable balance. While we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. This may result in an increase in payment defaults, which would affect our net earnings. Also, longer or extended payment terms have, and may in the future, result in an increase in our days sales outstanding, or DSO. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. While we believe that our existing cash and short-term and long-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months, the timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including the other risk factors described above and below, as well as: •Market acceptance of our products; •The need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; •Our ability to continue to increase orders growth and revenue, manage expenses and integrate the TomoTherapy business; 57 Table of Contents •Our ability to improve service margins; •The existence of opportunities for expansion; and •Access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain other debt financing, which could be difficult or impossible in the current economic and capital markets environments. Our debt levels may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We cannot assure that additional financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may attempt to acquire new businesses, products or technologies, or enter into strategic collaborations or alliances, and if we are unable to successfully complete these acquisitions or to integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies or employees, we may fail to realize expected benefits or harm our existing business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies, or through collaborating with complementary businesses, rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition or alliance candidates can be difficult, time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions or alliances. Other companies may compete with us for these strategic opportunities. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition or alliance, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies into our operations, and the process of integration could be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources, and we may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, collaboration or strategic alliance. Furthermore, the products and technologies that we acquire or with respect to which we collaborate may not be successful, or may require significantly greater resources and investments than we originally anticipated. In addition, we may be unable to retain employees of acquired companies, or retain the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners who are our competitors or who have close relationships with our competitors. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions or alliances which could harm our existing business. In addition, future acquisitions or alliances could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such as in-process research and development, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results or cause a reduction in the price of our common stock. Our liquidity could be adversely impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At June 30, 2011, we had $95.9 million in cash and cash equivalents. The available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in our operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in interest bearing funds managed by third party financial institutions. These funds invest in direct obligations of the government of the United States. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time, we also have funds in our operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions that exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC insurance limits. While we monitor daily the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or become subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in our operating accounts. 58 Table of Contents Our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural disasters, epidemics, terrorist acts and other events beyond our control, which would adversely affect our business. We have facilities in countries around the world, including three manufacturing facilities, each of which is equipped to manufacture unique components of our products. The manufacturing facilities are located in Sunnyvale, California, Madison, Wisconsin and Chengdu, China. We do not maintain backup manufacturing facilities for all of our manufacturing facilities, so we depend on each of our current facilities for the continued operation of our business. In addition, we conduct a significant portion of other activities, including administration and data processing, at facilities located in the State of California which has experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other natural disasters. Chengdu, China, where one of our manufacturing facilities is located, has also experienced major earthquakes in the past. We do not carry earthquake insurance. Unexpected events at any of our facilities, including fires or explosions; natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornados and earthquakes; war or terrorist activities; unplanned outages; supply disruptions; and failures of equipment or systems, could significantly disrupt our operations, delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment for the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our manufacturing facilities, which could be lengthy, result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities, and adversely affect our results of operation. In addition, the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and other collateral events, including, among others, the catastrophic loss of lives, businesses, infrastructure, and delays in transportation, may have a direct negative impact on us or an indirect impact on us by affecting our employees, customers, or the overall economy in Japan, and as a result, we may experience a reduction in demand for our products and services. In addition, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in sales to potential customers in Japan. We may also experience delays in installation schedules for, or cancellations of sales to, existing Japanese customers. If installation schedules are delayed or products are not accepted by our customers in a timely manner, our reported revenues may differ materially from expectations. As a result of these events, our revenue and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Regulation of our Products and Business Healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect demand for our products, our revenue and our financial condition. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, may impose limitations on the coverage or amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations could have a negative impact on the demand for our products and services, and therefore on our financial position and results of operations and a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law, and on March 30, 2010, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 was signed into law. Together, the two measures make the most sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. health care system since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. The Health Care Reform laws include a large number of health-related provisions to take effect over the next four years, including expanding Medicaid eligibility, requiring most individuals to have health insurance, establishing new regulations on health plans, establishing health insurance exchanges, requiring manufacturers to report payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, modifying certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste and including new tools to address fraud and abuse. There continue to be many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood, and it is unclear what the full impact of the legislation will be. Effective in 2013, there will be a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales 59 Table of Contents of medical devices. U.S. net sales represented 55% of our worldwide net sales in 2011, and therefore, this tax burden may have a material, negative impact on our results of operations and our cash flow. In addition, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict the exact effect newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may materially lower reimbursements for our products, materially reduce medical procedure volumes and significantly and adversely affect our business. Modifications, upgrades and future products related to the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems or new indications may require new FDA 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals, and such modifications, or any defects in design, manufacture or labeling may require us to recall or cease marketing the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems until approvals or clearances are obtained. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by local, state and the federal government, including by the FDA. The FDA regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device's design, development, testing manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, adverse event, reporting, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either premarket approval or 510(k) clearance from the FDA, unless an exemption exists. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA's 510(k) clearance process generally takes from three to twelve months, but it can last longer. The process of obtaining premarket approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and it generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. Despite the time, effort and cost, there can be no assurance that a particular device or a modification of a device will be approved or cleared by the FDA through either the premarket approval process or 510(k) clearance process. Even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for those products. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The FDA also may change its policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or 510(k) clearance of our device, or could impact our ability to market our currently cleared device. We are also subject to medical device reporting regulations which require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury. We also are subject to Quality System regulations. Our products are also subject to state regulations and various worldwide laws and regulations. A component of our strategy is to continue to upgrade the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. Upgrades previously released by us required 510(k) clearance before we were able to offer them for sale. We expect our future upgrades will similarly require 510(k) clearance; however, future upgrades may be subject to the substantially more time consuming and uncertain premarket approval process. If we were required to use the premarket approval process for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, which could harm our business. The FDA requires device manufacturers to make their own determination of whether or not a modification requires an approval or clearance; however, the FDA can review a manufacturer's decision not to submit for additional approvals or clearances. Any modification to an FDA approved or cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or efficacy or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new premarket approval or 510(k) clearance. We cannot assure you that the FDA will agree with our decisions not to seek approvals or clearances for particular device modifications or that we will be successful in obtaining 510(k) clearances for modifications. 60 Table of Contents We have obtained 510(k) clearance for the CyberKnife System for the treatment of tumors anywhere in the body where radiation is indicated, and we have obtained 510(k) clearance for the TomoTherapy Systems to be used as integrated systems for the planning and delivery of IMRT for the treatment of cancer. The TomoTherapy Systems provide precise delivery of radiation to tumors while minimizing the delivery of radiation to vital healthy tissue. The TomoTherapy Systems deliver the radiation therapy, or stereotactic radiotherapy or radiosurgery, treatment in accordance with the physician approved plan using IMRT techniques delivered in a helical tomographic pattern. We have made modifications to the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional approvals or clearances. If the FDA disagrees and requires us to obtain additional premarket approvals or 510(k) clearances for any modifications to the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems and we fail to obtain such approvals or clearances or fail to secure approvals or clearances in a timely manner, we may be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or to recall such modified device until we obtain FDA approval or clearance and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, even if the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are not modified, the FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries in which we market and sell our products have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design, manufacture or labeling. A government mandated recall, or a voluntary recall by us, could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling and user manuals. We have voluntarily conducted recalls and product corrections in the past, including two such recalls for the CyberKnife System, and four such recalls for the TomoTherapy system, during fiscal 2011. Each of these recalls was initiated by Accuray or TomoTherapy. The probability of serious adverse health consequences from these recalls is considered remote, and the costs associated with each such recall were not material. We cannot ensure that the FDA will not require that we take additional actions to address problems that resulted in previous recalls. Any recall could divert management's attention, cause us to incur significant expenses, harm our reputation with customers, negatively affect our future sales and business, require redesign of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, and harm our operating results. In these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant enforcement action. If any of these events were to occur, our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner would be adversely affected, which in turn would harm our future growth. If we or our distributors do not obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals in a specific country, we will not be able to market and sell our products in that country. To be able to market and sell our products in a specific country, we or our distributors must comply with applicable laws and regulations of that country. In jurisdictions where we rely on our distributors to manage the regulatory process, we are dependent on their ability to do so effectively. While the laws and regulations of some countries do not impose barriers to marketing and selling our products or only require notification, others require that we or our distributors obtain the approval of a specified regulatory body. These laws and regulations, including the requirements for approvals, and the time required for regulatory review vary from country to country. The governmental agencies regulating medical devices in some countries, for example, require that the user interface on medical device software be in the local language. We currently provide user guides and manuals, both paper copies and electronically, in the local language but only provide an English language version of the user interface. Obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive and time-consuming, and we cannot be certain that we or our distributors will receive regulatory approvals in each country in which we market or plan to market our products. If we modify our products, we or our distributors may need to apply for additional regulatory approvals before we are permitted to sell them. We may not continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the authorizations that we or our distributors have received. It can also be costly for us and our distributors to keep up with regulatory changes issued or 61 Table of Contents mandated from time to time. If we change distributors, it may be time-consuming and disruptive to our business to transfer the required regulatory approvals, particularly if such approvals are maintained by our third-party distributors on our behalf. If we or our distributors are unable to maintain our authorizations, or fail to obtain appropriate authorizations in a particular country, we will no longer be able to sell our products in that country, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially adversely affected. Within the European Union, we are required under Medical Device Directive to affix the Conformité Européene, or CE, mark on our products in order to sell the products in member countries of the EU. This conformity to the applicable directives is done through self declaration and is verified by an independent certification body, called a Notified body, before the CE mark can be placed on the device. Once the CE mark is affixed to the device, the Notified Body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable European laws or directives. CE marking demonstrates that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the European Union countries to allow free movement of trade within those countries. If we cannot support our performance claims and/or demonstrate compliance with the applicable European laws and directives, we lose our CE mark, which would prevent us from selling our products within the European Union. Under the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law in Japan, a pre-market approval necessary to sell, market and import a product, or shonin, must be obtained from the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, or MHLW, for our products. Before issuing approvals, MHLW examines the application in detail with regard to the quality, efficacy, and safety of the proposed medical device. The shonin is granted once MHLW is content with the safety and effectiveness of the medical device. The time required for approval varies. A delay in approval could prevent us from selling our products in Japan, which could impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. In addition to laws and regulations regarding medical devices, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations regulating our operations, including those relating to the use, generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials, which laws impose compliance costs on our business and can also result in liability to us. For example, we are in the process of updating the way our products are built such that they will be compliant with the recast Directive on Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or the RoHS Directive, which applies to medical devices beginning in July 2014. The recast RoHS Directive bans the placing on the EU market of new electrical and electronic equipment containing more than certain levels of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyl (PBB) and polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE). Future legislative or regulatory changes to the healthcare system may affect our business. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposals to change the healthcare system, and some could involve changes that significantly affect our business. In addition, certain federal regulatory changes occur at least annually. In April 2008, at the time CMS published final 2009 Medicare inpatient reimbursement rates, CMS issued final rules implementing significant amendments to the regulations under the federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act, which is more commonly known as the Stark Law, with an effective date of October 1, 2009. These regulations, among other things, impose additional limitations on the ability of physicians to refer patients to medical facilities in which the physician has an ownership interest for treatment. Among other things, the regulations provide that leases of equipment between physician owners that may refer patients and hospitals must be on a fixed rate, rather than a per use, basis. Physician owned entities have increasingly become involved in the acquisition of medical technologies, including the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. In many cases, these entities enter 62 Table of Contents into arrangements with hospitals that bill Medicare for the furnishing of medical services, and the physician owners are among the physicians who refer patients to the entity for services. The regulations limit these arrangements and could require the restructuring of existing arrangements between physicians owned entities and hospitals and may also discourage physicians from participating in the acquisition and ownership of medical technologies. As a result of the finalization of these regulations, some existing CyberKnife and TomoTherapy System operators may have to modify or restructure their corporate or organizational structures. In addition, certain existing customers that planned to open CyberKnife or TomoTherapy centers in the United States involving physician ownership could also have to restructure. Accordingly, these regulations could reduce the attractiveness of medical technology acquisitions, including CyberKnife and TomoTherapy System purchases, by physician-owned joint ventures or similar entities. As a result, these regulations could have an adverse impact on our product sales and therefore on our business and results of operations. On August 3, 2010, the FDA released for public comment two internal working group reports with numerous recommendations (1) to improve the 510(k) process and (2) to utilize science in regulatory decision making in ways that encourage innovation yet maintain predictability. The public comment period closed in early October 2010 and the FDA is targeting the implementation of or setting timelines for the implementation of "non-controversial" recommendations in 2011. At the same time, the FDA acknowledges that the recommendations are preliminary and no decisions have been made on specific changes to pursue. Nevertheless, we anticipate significant changes will result in the way 510(k) programs will operate and the increased data requirements, including clinical data, to obtain 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. We cannot predict what effect these reforms will have on our ability to obtain 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals in a timely manner or the effect on our business. On June 9 and 10, 2010, the FDA held a public meeting entitled "Device Improvements to Reduce the Number of Under-doses, Over-doses, and Misaligned Exposures from Therapeutic Radiation." The expressed purpose of the meeting was to discuss steps that could be taken by manufacturers of radiation therapy devices to help reduce misadministration and misaligned exposures that have been recently reported in the press. In advance of and at the meeting, the FDA requested comments in the following areas: features that should be incorporated into radiation therapy devices and their related software, user training, and quality assurance measures. It is likely that the FDA will use the information gleaned at this meeting to significantly revise the standards and requirements for designing, manufacturing and marketing devices such as ours, creating uncertainty in the current regulatory environment around our current products and development of future products. Future legislative or policy initiatives directed at reducing costs could be introduced at either the federal or state level. We cannot predict what healthcare reform legislation or regulations, if any, will be enacted in the United States or elsewhere, what impact any legislation or regulations related to the healthcare system that may be enacted or adopted in the future might have on our business, or the effect of ongoing uncertainty or public perception about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. In July, 2011, the Institute of Medicine, or IOM, which was requested by the FDA to evaluate and make recommendations on the 510(k) program, released its report entitled "Medical Devices and the Public Health, the FDA 510(k) Clearance Process.' The report contained numerous and broad recommendations that, if followed, will have a significant impact on the medical device industry. We cannot predict what effect the recommendations by the IOM in its report to the FDA will have on the 510(k) program or our ability to obtain 510(k) clearances in a timely manner. 63 Table of Contents We are required to comply with federal and state "fraud and abuse" laws, and if we are unable to comply with such laws, we could face substantial penalties and we could be excluded from government healthcare programs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are directly or indirectly through our customers, subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. These laws which directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business primarily include, but are not limited to, the following: •The federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; •State law equivalents to the Anti-Kickback Statute, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items; •The Ethics in Patient Referral Act of 1989, also known as the Stark Law, which prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, physician referrals of Medicare and Medicaid patients to an entity providing certain "designated health services" if the physician or an immediate family member has any financial relationship with the entity. The Stark Law also prohibits the entity receiving the referral from billing for any good or service furnished pursuant to an unlawful referral; •State law equivalents to the Stark Law, which may provide even broader restrictions and require greater disclosures than the federal law; •The federal False Claims Act, which prohibits the knowing filing or causing the filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government; and •Similar laws in foreign countries where we conduct business. The following arrangements with purchasers and their agents have been identified by the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services as ones raising potential risk of violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute: •Discount and free good arrangements that are not properly disclosed or accurately reported to federal healthcare programs; •Product support services, including billing assistance, reimbursement consultation, marketing and other services specifically tied to support of the purchased product, offered in tandem with another service or program (such as reimbursement guarantee) that confers a benefit to the purchaser; •Educational grants conditioned in whole or in part on the purchase of equipment, or otherwise inappropriately influenced by sales and marketing considerations; •Research funding arrangements, particularly post-market research activities, that are linked directly or indirectly to the purchase of products, or otherwise inappropriately influenced by sales and marketing considerations; and •Other offers of remuneration to purchasers that is expressly or impliedly related to a sale or sales volume, such as "prebates" and "upfront payment," other free or reduced-price goods or services, and payments to cover costs of "converting" from a competitor's products, particularly where the selection criteria for such offers vary with the volume or value of business generated. We have various arrangements with physicians, hospitals and other entities which implicate these laws. For example, physicians who own our stock also provide medical advisory and other consulting and personal services. Similarly, we have a variety of different types of arrangements with our 64 Table of Contents customers. For example, our shared ownership program entails the provision of our products to our customers under a deferred payment program, where we generally receive the greater of a fixed minimum payment or a portion of the revenues of services. Included in the fee we charge for the placement and shared ownership program are a variety of services, including physician training, educational and marketing support, general reimbursement guidance and technical support. In the past, we have also provided loans to our customers. We also provide research grants to customers to support customer studies related to, among other things, our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. Certain of these arrangements do not meet Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbor protections, which may result in increased scrutiny by government authorities having responsibility for enforcing these laws. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including significant civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The impact of any such violations may lead to curtailment or restructuring of our operations, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of these laws are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. If enforcement action were to occur, our reputation and our business and financial condition may be harmed, even if we were to prevail or settle the action. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on our business. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most uses and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. Although we are not a covered entity under HIPAA, we have entered into agreements with certain covered entities under which we are considered to be a "business associate" under HIPAA. As a business associate, we are required to implement policies, procedures and reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect individually identifiable health information we receive from covered entities. Our failure to protect health information received from customers could subject us to liability to both the government and the covered entity, adverse publicity, and could harm our business and impair our ability to attract new customers. The HIPAA privacy standard was recently amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. HITECH significantly increases the civil money penalties for violations of patient privacy rights protected under HIPAA. Furthermore, as of February 2010, Business Associates who have access to patient health information provided by hospitals and healthcare providers are now directly subject to HIPAA, including a new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. 65 Table of Contents Certain governmental agencies, such as the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal Trade Commission, have the authority to protect against the misuse of consumer information by targeting companies that collect, disseminate or maintain personal information in an unfair or deceptive manner. We are also subject to the laws of those foreign jurisdictions in which we sell the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, some of which currently have more protective privacy laws. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations in this area, our business and prospects could be harmed. Risks Related to Pro Forma Financial Information Our financial results and backlog may materially differ from the pro forma financial information and backlog presented in this report. Historical proforma financial results included in "Note 12, Acquisition", to the financial statements may not be indicative of future results of operations. Our ability to maintain and potentially improve results of operations will be dependent on a variety of factors including the following: •Our success in marketing and selling existing products; •Our ability to improve the reliability of the TomoTherapy Systems; •Our ability to develop new products; and •Our ability to integrate the operations of TomoTherapy with our existing operations. As a result, our results in the future may be different than the results reflected in the historical pro forma results Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock is volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly, which could lead to losses for stockholders. The trading prices of the stock of high-technology companies of our size can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or out of proportion to the operating performance of these companies. Our stock price has experienced periods of volatility. Broad market fluctuations may also harm our stock price. Any negative change in the public's perception of the prospects of companies that employ similar technology or sell into similar markets could also depress our stock price, regardless of our actual results. In addition to the other risk factors described above and below, factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: •Regulatory developments related to manufacturing, marketing or sale of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems; •Our ability to successfully integrate the TomoTherapy acquisition; •Economic changes and overall market volatility; •Political or social uncertainties; •Changes in product pricing policies; •Variations in our operating results, as well as costs and expenditures; •Changes in our operating results as a result of problems with our internal controls; •Announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; 66 Table of Contents •Recruitment or departure of key personnel; •Changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analyst that elects to follow our common stock; •Market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; •Sales of large blocks of our common stock; and •Changes in accounting principles or changes in interpretations of existing principles, which could affect our financial results. The acquisition of TomoTherapy may not be accretive and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We currently anticipate that the acquisition of TomoTherapy will be accretive to our earnings per share (on an adjusted earnings basis) in our fiscal year beginning July 1, 2012. This expectation is based on current estimates, which may change materially. We may also encounter additional transaction-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the acquisition. All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the acquisition and cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Future issuances of shares of our common stock or substantial sales of our common stock by our stockholders, including sales pursuant to 10b5-1 plans, could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results. Any issuance of equity securities could dilute the interests of our stockholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. On August 1, 2011, we issued $100 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016, which we refer to as the Notes. The price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company or by any hedging or arbitrage trading activity that involves our common stock. To the extent we issue common stock upon conversion of the Notes, that conversion would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. Moreover, if our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, including sales pursuant to 10b5-1 plans, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Increased leverage as a result of the Notes offering may harm our financial condition and operating results. As of June 30, 2011, on a pro forma basis to give effect to the sale of the Notes, we would have had total consolidated long-term liabilities of approximately $108.7 million, including Notes in the amount of $96.3 million. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, because: •it could affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Notes; 67 Table of Contents •a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; •it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; •it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and •it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. The conditional conversion features of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the conditional conversion features of the Notes are triggered, holders of the Notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying solely cash in lieu of any fractional share), including if we have irrevocably elected full physical settlement upon conversion, we would be required to make cash payments to satisfy all or a portion of our conversion obligation based on the applicable conversion rate, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, if we have irrevocably elected net share settlement upon conversion we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital. Provisions in the indenture for the Notes, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial in the opinion of our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial in the opinion of our stockholders. These provisions include: •Authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; •Establishing a classified board of directors, which could discourage a takeover attempt; •Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would limit the ability of less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •Limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; •Prohibiting stockholder action by written consent and requiring that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and •Establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. Generally, Section 203 prohibits stockholders who, alone or together with their affiliates and associates, own more than 15% of the subject company from engaging in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder of such subject company without approval of the board or 662/3% of the independent stockholders. The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 68 Table of Contents Furthermore, if a "fundamental change" (as defined in the indenture for the Notes) occurs, holders of the Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes. A "fundamental change" generally occurs when there is a change in control of the Company (acquisition of 50% or more of our voting stock, liquidation or sale of the Company not for stock) or trading of our stock is terminated. In the event of a "make-whole fundamental change" (as defined in the indenture for the Notes), we may also be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to Notes surrendered for conversion in connection with such make-whole fundamental change. A "make-whole fundamental change" is generally a sale of the company not for stock in another publicly traded company. In addition, the indenture for the Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Notes. Our directors, executive officers and major stockholders own approximately 32.7% of our outstanding common stock as of June 30, 2011, which could limit stockholders' ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. As of June 30, 2011, our directors, executive officers, and current holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock, held, in the aggregate, approximately 32.7% of our outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company and will make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, prospects, contractual arrangements, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, a return on a stockholders' investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 