Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report, including the risk factors set forth below, and the information incorporated by reference into this report, before making a decision with respect to in our securities. The following is not an exhaustive discussion of all of the risks facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may impair our business operations and results of operations. If the anti-kickback, physician self-referral or other fraud and abuse laws are modified, interpreted differently or if other regulatory restrictions become effective, we could incur significant civil or criminal penalties and loss of reimbursement or be required to revise or restructure aspects of our business arrangements. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federal healthcare program. The anti-kickback statute also prohibits any form of remuneration in return for purchasing, leasing or ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchasing, leasing or ordering of items or services payable by these programs. The anti-kickback statute is very broad in scope and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law, regulations or advisory opinions. Violations of the anti-kickback statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including criminal fines of up to $25,000 for each violation or imprisonment and civil penalties of up to $50,000 for each violation, plus three times the amount claimed and exclusion from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare reimbursement programs. Any exclusion of our hospitals or diagnostic and therapeutic facilities from these programs would result in significant reductions in revenue and would have a material adverse effect on our business. The requirements of the physician self-referral statute, or Stark Law, are very complex and while federal regulations have been issued to implement all of its provisions, proper interpretation and application of the statute remains challenging. The Stark Law prohibits a physician who has a “financial relationship” with an entity from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to that entity for certain “designated health services.” A “financial relationship” includes a direct or indirect ownership or investment interest in the entity, and a compensation arrangement between the physician and the entity. Designated health services include some radiology services and inpatient and outpatient services. There are various ownership and compensation arrangement exceptions to this self-referral prohibition. Our hospitals rely upon the whole hospital exception to allow referrals from physician investors. Under this ownership exception, physicians may make referrals to a hospital in which he or she has an ownership interest if (1) the physician is authorized to perform services at the hospital and (2) the ownership interest is in the entire hospital, as opposed to a department or a subdivision of the hospital. Another exception for ownership of publicly traded securities permits physicians who own shares of our common stock to make referrals to our hospitals, provided our stockholders’ equity exceeded $75.0 million at the end of our most recent fiscal year or on average during the three previous fiscal years. This exception applies if, prior to the time the physician 22 Table of Contents makes a referral for a designated health service to a hospital, the physician acquired the securities on terms generally available to the public and the securities are traded on one of the major exchanges. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA, required the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, to develop a plan addressing several issues concerning physician investment in “specialty hospitals.” As defined by the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, “specialty hospitals” are hospitals primarily or exclusively engaged in the care and treatment of certain specified patients, including those with a cardiac condition. In August 2006, HHS submitted its required final report to Congress addressing (1) proportionality of investment return; (2) bona fide investment; (3) annual disclosure of investment; (4) provision of care to Medicaid beneficiaries; (5) charity care; and (6) appropriate enforcement. On August 8, 2006, HHS released its final report to Congress. The report reaffirms HHS’ intention to implement reforms to increase Medicare payment accuracy in the hospital inpatient prospective payment system and the ambulatory surgical center payment system. HHS also has implemented certain “gainsharing” demonstrations are required by the DRA and other value-based payment approaches designed to align physician and hospital incentives while achieving measurable improvements in quality to care. In addition, HHS now requires transparency in hospital financial arrangements with physicians. Specifically, all hospitals are required to provide HHS information concerning physician investment and compensation arrangements that potentially implicate the physician self-referral statute, and to disclose to patients whether they have physician investors. Hospitals that do not comply in a timely manner with this new disclosure requirement may face civil penalties of $10,000 per day that they are in violation. HHS also announced its position that non-proportional returns on investments and non-bona fide investments may violate the physician self-referral statute and are suspect under the anti-kickback statute. Other components of the plan include providing further guidance concerning what is expected of hospitals that do not have emergency departments under the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act, and changes in the Medicare enrollment form to identify specialty hospitals. Issuance of the strategic plan coincided with the sunset of a DRA provision suspending enrollment of new specialty hospitals into the Medicare program. Possible amendments to the Stark Law, the federal anti-kickback law or other applicable regulations could require us to change or adversely impact the manner in which we establish relationships with physicians to develop and operate a facility, as well as our other business relationships such as joint ventures and physician practice management arrangements. Legislation has been introduced in Congress in the past seeking to limit or restrict the “whole hospital” exception to the anti-referral prohibitions of the Stark Law. We rely on the whole hospital exception in structuring our hospital ownership relationships with physicians. There can be no assurance that future legislation will not seek to restrict or eliminate the whole hospital exception. Any such legislation could adversely affect our business and cause us to reorganize our relationships with physicians. Moreover, many states in which we operate also have adopted, or are considering adopting, similar or more restrictive physician self-referral laws. Some of these laws prohibit referrals of patients by physicians in certain cases and others require disclosure of the physician’s interest in the healthcare facility if the physician refers a patient to the facility. Some of these state laws apply even if the payment for care does not come from the government. Reductions or changes in reimbursement from government or third-party payors could adversely impact our operating results. Historically, Congress and some state legislatures have, from time to time, proposed significant changes in the healthcare system. Many of these changes have resulted in limitations on, and in some cases, significant reductions in the levels of, payments to healthcare providers for services under many government reimbursement programs. Most recently, HHS has changed the diagnosis-related group, or DRG system under the Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system. On August 1, 2006, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, issued its final inpatient hospital prospective payment system rule for fiscal year 2007, which begins October 1, 2006. The final rule calls for major DRG reforms designed to improve the 23 Table of Contents accuracy of hospital payments. Under the final rule, CMS adopted provisions to more closely align Medicare reimbursement with hospital costs rather than charges and more fully account for the severity of the patient’s condition. CMS established a three-year phase-in of the new cost-based weights and refined the methods used to determine average costs per case. The refinements include expanding the number of hospital cost centers from 10 to 13, applying less stringent criteria for eliminating statistical outliers, accounting for hospital size when evaluating the markup of charges over costs, and standardizing charges using a process similar to the outpatient prospective payment system rather than hospital-specific relative weights. In addition, CMS committed to perform further analysis of the relative refinement in the methodology. With regard to severity adjustments, CMS added 20 new groups to the current DRG system in fiscal 2007, modified 32 DRGs to better capture differences in severity, and will conduct an evaluation of alternative systems for more comprehensive severity adjustments for fiscal 2008 rather than implementing an entirely new DRG system. In addition, the rule updates inpatient rates by 3.4% for hospitals that report certain quality data to CMS. Hospitals that do not report quality data receive a 1.4% update. During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, we derived 49.4% and 53.0%, respectively, of our net revenue from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We derived an even higher percentage of our net revenue in each of these fiscal periods from these programs in our hospital division, which for our most recent fiscal quarter represented 50.0% of our net revenue. Changes in laws or regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs or changes in the manner in which government agencies interpret them could materially and adversely affect our operating results or financial position. Our relationships with third-party payors are generally governed by negotiated agreements or out of network arrangements. These agreements set forth the amounts we are entitled to receive for our services. Third-party payors have undertaken cost-containment initiatives during the past several years, including different payment methods, monitoring healthcare expenditures and anti-fraud initiatives, that have made these relationships more difficult to establish and less profitable to maintain. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate if we are unable to establish favorable agreements with third-party payors or satisfactory out of network arrangements. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and government regulations applicable to us, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. We are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations relate to, among other things: • licensure, certification and accreditation, • billing, coverage and reimbursement for supplies and services, • relationships with physicians and other referral sources, • adequacy and quality of medical care, • quality of medical equipment and services, • qualifications of medical and support personnel, • confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records, • the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions, • building codes, • environmental protection, • clinical research, • operating policies and procedures, and • addition of facilities and services. 24 Table of Contents Many of these laws and regulations are expansive, and we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of them. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs, operating procedures, and contractual arrangements. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including: • criminal penalties, • civil penalties, including monetary penalties and the loss of our licenses to operate one or more of our facilities, and • exclusion of one or more of our facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. A number of initiatives have been proposed during the past several years to reform various aspects of the healthcare system at the federal level and in the states in which we operate. Current or future legislative initiatives, government regulations or other government actions may have a material adverse effect on us. Companies within the healthcare industry continue to be the subject of federal and state investigations. Both federal and state government agencies as well as private payors have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare organizations including hospital companies. Like others in the healthcare industry, we receive requests for information from these governmental agencies in connection with their regulatory or investigative authority which, if determined adversely to us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. In addition, the Office of Inspector General and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, undertaken national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Moreover, healthcare providers are subject to civil and criminal false claims laws, including the federal False Claims Act, which allows private parties to bring what are called whistleblower lawsuits against private companies doing business with or receiving reimbursement under government programs. These are sometimes referred to as “qui tam” lawsuits. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware or which cannot be disclosed until the court lifts the seal from the case. Defendants determined to be liable under the False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Typically, each fraudulent bill submitted by a provider is considered a separate false claim, and thus the penalties under a false claim case may be substantial. Liability arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to a federal health care program. In some cases, whistleblowers or the federal government have taken the position that providers who allegedly have violated other statutes, such as the anti-kickback statute or the Stark Law, have thereby submitted false claims under the False Claims Act. Thus, it is possible that we have liability exposure under the False Claims Act. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. Publicity associated with the substantial amounts paid by other healthcare providers to settle these lawsuits may encourage current and former employees of ours and other healthcare providers to seek to bring more whistleblower lawsuits. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. Any such investigations of us, our executives or managers could result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse publicity. The U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, is conducting an investigation of a clinical trial conducted at one of our hospitals. The investigation concerns alleged improper federal healthcare program billings because certain endoluminal graft devices were implanted either without an approved investigational device exception or outside of the approved protocol. Recently, the DOJ reached a settlement under the False Claims Act with the medical practice whose physicians conducted the clinical trial. We engaged outside counsel to conduct an 25 Table of Contents internal review of the hospital’s monitoring of the clinical trial and, based upon the conclusions of that review, advised the DOJ in writing in May 2005 that we believe the hospital complied fully with applicable internal policy and federal requirements. We are engaged in ongoing discussions with the DOJ regarding the parties’ respective positions on any federal healthcare program claims arising from the clinical trial. The DOJ’s investigation could result in the imposition of material obligations and penalties against the hospital. However, we have retained our rights to vigorously dispute any claims that may be formally asserted by the DOJ against the hospital in connection with this matter. If laws governing the corporate practice of medicine change, we may be required to restructure some of our relationships. The laws of various states in which we operate or may operate in the future do not permit business corporations to practice medicine, exercise control over physicians who practice medicine or engage in various business practices, such as fee-splitting with physicians. The interpretation and enforcement of these laws vary significantly from state to state. We are not required to obtain a license to practice medicine in any jurisdiction in which we own or operate a hospital or other facility because our facilities are not engaged in the practice of medicine. The physicians who use our facilities to provide care to their patients are individually licensed to practice medicine. In most instances, the physicians and physician group practices are not affiliated with us other than through the physicians’ ownership interests in the facility and through the service and lease agreements we have with some of these physicians. Should the interpretation, enforcement or laws of the states in which we operate or may operate change, we cannot assure you that such changes would not require us to restructure some of our physician relationships. If government laws or regulations change or the enforcement or interpretation of them change, we may be obligated to purchase some or all of the ownership interests of the physicians associated with us. Changes in government regulation or changes in the enforcement or interpretation of existing laws or regulations could obligate us to purchase at the then fair market value some or all of the ownership interests of the physicians who have invested in the ventures that own and operate our hospitals and other healthcare businesses. Regulatory changes that could create this obligation include changes that: • make illegal the referral of Medicare or other patients to our hospitals and other healthcare businesses by physicians affiliated with us, • create the substantial likelihood that cash distributions from the hospitals and other healthcare businesses to our physician partners will be illegal, or • make illegal the ownership by our physician partners of their interests in the hospitals and other healthcare businesses. From time to time, we may voluntarily seek to increase our ownership interest in one or more of our hospitals and other healthcare businesses, in accordance with any applicable limitations. We may seek to use shares of our common stock to purchase physicians’ ownership interests instead of cash. If the use of our stock is not permitted or attractive to us or our physician partners, we may use cash or promissory notes to purchase the physicians’ ownership interests. Our existing capital resources may not be sufficient for the acquisition or the use of cash may limit our ability to use our capital resources elsewhere, limiting our growth and impairing our operations. The creation of these obligations and the possible adverse effect on our affiliation with these physicians could have a material adverse effect on us. We may have fiduciary duties to our partners that may prevent us from acting solely in our best interests. We hold our ownership interests in hospitals and other healthcare businesses through ventures organized as limited liability companies or limited partnerships. As general partner, manager or owner of the majority interest in these entities, we may have special legal responsibilities, known as fiduciary duties, to our partners who own an interest in a particular entity. Our fiduciary duties include not only a duty of care and a duty of 26 Table of Contents full disclosure but also a duty to act in good faith at all times as manager or general partner of the limited liability company or limited partnership. This duty of good faith includes primarily an obligation to act in the best interest of each business, without being influenced by any conflict of interest we may have as a result of our own business interests. We also have a duty to operate our business for the benefit of our stockholders. As a result, we may encounter conflicts between our fiduciary duties to our partners in our hospitals and other healthcare businesses, and our responsibility to our stockholders. For example, we have entered into management agreements to provide management services to our hospitals in exchange for a fee. Disputes may arise with our partners as to the nature of the services to be provided or the amount of the fee to be paid. In these cases, as manager or general partner we may be obligated to exercise reasonable, good faith judgment to resolve the disputes and may not be free to act solely in our own best interests or the interests of our stockholders. We cannot assure you that any dispute between us and our partners with respect to a particular business decision or regarding the interpretation of the provisions of the hospital operating agreement will be resolved or that, as a result of our fiduciary duties, any dispute resolution will be on terms favorable or satisfactory to us. Material decisions regarding the operations of our facilities require consent of our physician and community hospital partners, and we may be unable as a result to take actions that we believe are in our best interest. The physician and community hospital partners in our healthcare businesses participate in material strategic and operating decisions we make for these facilities. They may do so through their representatives on the governing board of the subsidiary that owns the facility or a requirement in the governing documents that we obtain the consent of their representatives before taking specified material actions. We must generally obtain the consent of our physician and other hospital partners or their representatives before making any material amendments to the operating or partnership agreement for the venture or admitting additional members or partners. Although they have not done so to date, these rights to approve material decisions could in the future limit our ability to take actions that we believe are in our best interest and the best interest of the venture. We may not be able to resolve favorably, or at all, any dispute regarding material decisions with our physician or other hospital partners. We may experience difficulties in executing our growth strategy. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify attractive markets in which to expand existing facilities and establish new business ventures. We may have difficulty in identifying potential markets that satisfy our criteria for expansion or developing a new facility or for entering into other business arrangements. Identifying physician and community hospital partners and negotiating and implementing the terms of an agreement with them can be a lengthy and complex process. As a result, we may not be able to develop new business ventures at the rate we currently anticipate. Our growth strategy will also increase demands on our management, operational and financial information systems and other resources. To accommodate our growth, we will need to continue to implement operational and financial information systems and controls, and expand, train, manage and motivate our employees. Our personnel, information systems, procedures or controls may not adequately support our operations in the future. Failure to recruit and retain strong management, implement operational and financial information systems and controls, or expand, train, manage or motivate our workforce, could lead to delays in developing and achieving expected operating results for new facilities. Unfavorable or unexpected results at one of our hospitals or in one of our markets could significantly impact our consolidated operating results. Each of our individual hospitals comprise a significant portion of our operating results and a majority of our hospitals are located in the southwestern United States. Any material change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in this region, a particular market in which one of our other hospitals operates or the United States in general could adversely affect our operating results. In particular, if 27 Table of Contents economic conditions deteriorate in one or more of these markets, we may experience a shift in payor mix arising from patients’ loss of or changes in employer-provided health insurance resulting in higher co-payments and deductibles or an increased number of uninsured patients. Growth of self-pay patients and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. We have experienced growth in our self-pay patients, which includes situations in which each patient is responsible for the entire bill, as well as cases where deductibles are due from insured patients after insurance pays. We may have greater amounts of uninsured receivables in the future and if the collectibility of those uninsured receivables deteriorates, increases in our allowance for doubtful accounts may be required, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Our hospitals and other facilities face competition for patients from other healthcare companies. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. Our facilities face competition for patients from other providers in our markets. In most of our markets we compete for market share of cardiovascular and other healthcare procedures that are the focus of our facilities with two to three providers. Some of these providers are part of large for-profit or not-for-profit hospital systems with greater financial resources than we have available to us and have been operating in the markets they serve for many years. Some of the hospitals that we compete against in certain of our markets and elsewhere have attempted to use their market position and managed care networks to influence physicians not to enter into or to abandon joint ventures that own facilities such as ours by, for example, revoking the admission privileges of our physician partners at the competing hospital. These practices of “economic credentialing” appear to be on the increase. Although these practices have not been successful to date in either preventing us from developing new ventures with physicians or causing us to lose existing investors, the future inability to attract new investors or loss of a significant number of our physician partners in one or more of our existing ventures could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We depend on our relationships with the physicians who use our facilities. Our business depends upon the efforts and success of the physicians who provide healthcare services at our facilities and the strength of our relationships with these physicians. We generally do not employ any practicing physicians at any of our hospitals or other facilities. Each member of the medical staffs at our hospitals may also serve on the medical staffs of, and practice at, hospitals not owned by us. At each of our hospitals, our business could be adversely affected if a significant number of key physicians or a group of physicians: • terminated their relationship with, or reduced their use of, our facilities, • failed to maintain the quality of care provided or to otherwise adhere to the legal professional standards or the legal requirements for the granting and renewal of privileges at our hospitals or other facilities, • suffered any damage to their reputation, • exited the market entirely, or • experienced major changes in its composition or leadership. Based upon our management’s general knowledge of the operations of our hospitals, we believe that, consistent with most hospitals in our industry, a significant portion of the patient admissions at most of our hospitals are attributable to approximately 10% of the total number of physicians on the hospital’s medical staff. Historically, the medical staff at each hospital ranges from approximately 150 to 350 physicians depending upon the size of the hospital and the number of practicing physicians in the market. If we fail to maintain our relationships with the physicians in this group at a particular hospital, many of whom are investors in our hospitals, the revenues of that hospital would be reduced. None of the physicians practicing at 28 Table of Contents our hospitals has a legal commitment, or any other obligation or arrangement that requires the physician to refer patients to any of our hospitals or other facilities. A shortage of qualified nurses could affect our ability to grow and deliver quality, cost-effective care services. We depend on qualified nurses to provide quality service to patients in our facilities. There is currently a shortage of qualified nurses in the markets where we operate our facilities. This shortage of qualified nurses and the more stressful working conditions it creates for those remaining in the profession are increasingly viewed as a threat to patient safety and may trigger the adoption of state and federal laws and regulations intended to reduce that risk. For example, some states have adopted or are considering legislation that would prohibit forced overtime for nurses and/or establish mandatory staffing level requirements. Growing numbers of nurses are also joining unions that threaten and sometimes call work stoppages. Historically, we have employed between approximately 100 and 250 nurses at each of our hospitals and between one and 14 at each of our diagnostic and therapeutic facilities. When we need to hire a replacement member of our nursing staff, it can several weeks to recruit for the position. We estimate the cost of recruiting and training a replacement nurse to be approximately $69,000. In response to the shortage of qualified nurses, we have increased and are likely to have to continue to increase our wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses or to engage expensive contract nurses until we hire permanent staff nurses. We may not be able to increase the rates we charge to offset increased costs. The shortage of qualified nurses has in the past and may in the future delay our ability to achieve our operational goals at a hospital by limiting the number of patient beds available during the start-up phase of the hospital. The shortage of nurses also makes it difficult for us in some markets to reduce personnel expense at our facilities by implementing a reduction in the size of the nursing staff during periods of reduced patient admissions and procedure volumes. We rely heavily on our information systems and if our access to this technology is impaired or interrupted, or if such technology does not perform as warranted by the vendor, our business could be harmed and we may not comply with applicable laws and regulations. Increasingly, our business depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain in compliance with various regulations, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and third-party software. Our inability to implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to operate effectively, or any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities, for any reason including if such systems do not perform appropriately, could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. Uninsured risks from legal actions related to professional liability could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. In recent years, physicians, hospitals, diagnostic centers and other healthcare providers have become subject, in the normal course of business, to an increasing number of legal actions alleging negligence in performing services, negligence in allowing unqualified physicians to perform services or other legal theories as a basis for liability. Many of these actions involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. We may be subject to such legal actions even though a particular physician at one of our hospitals or other facilities is not our employee and the governing documents for the medical staffs of each of our hospitals require physicians who provide services, or conduct procedures, at our hospitals to meet all licensing and specialty credentialing requirements and to maintain their own professional liability insurance. We have established a reserve for malpractice claims based on actuarial estimates made by an independent third party, who based the estimates on our historical experience with malpractice claims and assumptions about future events. Due to the considerable variability that is inherent in such estimates, including such factors as changes in medical costs and changes in actual experience, there is a reasonable 29 Table of Contents possibility that the recorded estimates will change by a material amount in the near term. Also, there can be no assurance that the ultimate liability we experience under our self-insured retention for medical malpractice claims will not exceed our estimates. It is also possible that such claims could exceed the scope of coverage, or that coverage could be denied. Our results of operations may be adversely affected from time to time by new medical technologies. One major element of our business model is to focus on the treatment of patients suffering from cardiovascular disease. Our commitment and that of our physician partners to treating cardiovascular disease often requires us to purchase newly approved pharmaceuticals and devices that have been developed by pharmaceutical and device manufacturers to treat cardiovascular disease. At times, these new technologies receive required regulatory approval and become widely available to the healthcare market prior to becoming eligible for reimbursement by government and other payors. In addition, the clinical application of existing technologies may expand, resulting in their increased utilization. We cannot predict when new technologies will be available to the marketplace, the rate of acceptance of the new technologies by physicians who practice at our facilities, and when or if, government and third-party payors will provide adequate reimbursement to compensate us for all or some of the additional cost required to purchase new technologies. As such, our results of operations may be adversely affected from time to time by the additional, unreimbursed cost of these new technologies. For example, the utilization of automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillators, or AICDs, has increased due to their clinical efficacy in treating certain types of cardiovascular disease. AICDs are high-cost cardiac devices that cost often exceeds the related reimbursement. We are unable to determine if the reimbursement for these procedures will increase to a level necessary to consistently reimburse us for the cost of the devices. In addition, advances in alternative cardiovascular treatments or in cardiovascular disease prevention techniques could reduce demand or eliminate the need for some of the services provided at our facilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, certain technologies may require significant capital investments or render existing capital obsolete which may adversely impact our cash flows or operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 