Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report, including the risk factors set forth below before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. The following is not an exhaustive discussion of all of the risks facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may impair our business operations and results of operations. If the anti-kickback, physician self-referral or other fraud and abuse laws are modified, interpreted differently or if other regulatory restrictions become effective, we could incur significant civil or criminal penalties and loss of reimbursement or be required to revise or restructure aspects of our business arrangements. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federal healthcare program. The anti-kickback statute also prohibits any form of remuneration in return for purchasing, leasing or ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchasing, leasing or ordering of items or services payable by these programs. The anti-kickback statute is very broad in scope and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law, regulations or advisory opinions. Violations of the anti-kickback statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including criminal fines of up to $25,000 for each violation or imprisonment and civil penalties of up to $50,000 for each violation, plus three times the amount claimed and exclusion from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare reimbursement programs. Any exclusion of our hospitals or diagnostic and therapeutic facilities from these programs would result in significant reductions in revenue and would have a material adverse effect on our business. The requirements of the physician self-referral statute, or Stark Law, are very complex and while federal regulations have been issued to implement all of its provisions, proper interpretation and application of the statute remains challenging. The Stark Law prohibits a physician who has a “financial relationship” with an entity from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to that entity for certain “designated health services.” A “financial relationship” includes a direct or indirect ownership or investment interest in the entity, and a compensation arrangement between the physician and the entity. Designated health services include some radiology services and inpatient and outpatient services. 19 Table of Contents There are various ownership and compensation arrangement exceptions to this self-referral prohibition. Our hospitals rely upon the whole hospital exception to allow referrals from physician investors. Under this ownership exception, physicians may make referrals to a hospital in which he or she has an ownership interest if (1) the physician is authorized to perform services at the hospital and (2) the ownership interest is in the entire hospital, as opposed to a department or a subdivision of the hospital. Another exception for ownership of publicly traded securities permits physicians who own shares of our common stock to make referrals to our hospitals, provided our stockholders’ equity exceeded $75.0 million at the end of our most recent fiscal year or on average during the three previous fiscal years. This exception applies if, prior to the time the physician makes a referral for a designated health service to a hospital, the physician acquired the securities on terms generally available to the public and the securities are traded on one of the major exchanges. In July 2007 as part of proposed revisions to the Medicare physician fee scheduled for fiscal year 2008, CMS proposed certain additional changes to the Stark Law. In particular, the proposed rule would revise the Stark Law exception for space and equipment rentals. In instances where a physician leases space or equipment to an entity who accepts patients referred by that physician, the CMS proposal would no longer allow unit-of-service or “per click” payments for such leases. Additionally, the proposed rule would no longer treat “under arrangements” between hospitals and physician-owned entities as compensation instead of ownership relationships. Specifically, the proposal would revise the definition of “entity” under the Stark Law to include not only the entity billing for the service but also the entity that has performed the designated health service CMS finalized these proposed changes to the Stark Law in the 2009 IPPS final rule published on August 19, 2008. These changes are effective October 1, 2009. Specifically, the 2009 IPPS final rule limits the ability of hospitals to enter into under arrangements with physicians and physician-owned entities and thus, physician-owned joint venture entities deemed to be “performing Designated Health Services (DHS)” will have to comply with one of the more limited Stark Law “ownership” exceptions, rather than the previously acceptable Stark Law “compensation” exceptions. In addition, the 2009 IPPS final rule finalized the prohibition on per unit compensation in space and equipment lease transactions. We have restructured certain space and equipment lease transactions with physicians that include per unit or per use compensation effective October 1, 2009 as well certain arrangements with community hospitals. We cannot yet predict the full impact of this restructuring on our financial performance. While we believe that such restructured arrangements comply with applicable law, we cannot be assured, however, that government officials will agree with our interpretation of applicable law. Possible amendments to the Stark Law, including any modification or revocation of the whole hospital exception upon which we rely in establishing many of our relationships with physicians, could require us to change or adversely impact the manner in which we establish relationships with physicians to develop and operate a facility, as well as our other business relationships such as joint ventures and physician practice management arrangements. We note that legislation has been introduced in Congress recently and in the past seeking to limit or restrict the whole hospital exception. Specifically, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act now under debate in the U.S. Senate, provides that the whole hospital exception would only be available to hospitals having physician ownership and a Medicare provider number as of February 1, 2010 and that meet certain other specified requirements. One such requirement is that physician owners could not own more than the percentage of the value of the physician ownership as of the date of the enactment of the bill. The proposed legislation would also restrict expansion of hospitals that meet the requirements referred to above. There can be no assurance that future legislation will not seek to modify, limit, restrict, or revoke the whole hospital exception. There also can be no assurance the CMS will not promulgate additional regulations under the Stark Law that may change or adversely impact our arrangements with referring physicians. Reductions or changes in reimbursement from government or third-party payors could adversely impact our operating results. Historically, Congress and some state legislatures have, from time to time, proposed significant changes in the healthcare system. Many of these changes have resulted in limitations on, and in some cases, significant reductions in the levels of, payments to healthcare providers for services under many government reimbursement programs. In addition, many payors, including Medicare and other government payors, are increasingly developing payment policies that result in more procedures being performed on an outpatient basis rather than on an inpatient basis. Such 20 Table of Contents policies will result in decreased revenues for our hospitals, since outpatient procedures are generally reimbursed at a lower rate than inpatient procedures. Recent budget proposals, if enacted in their current form, would freeze and/or reduce reimbursement for inpatient and outpatient hospital services. The Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system is evaluated on an annual basis. On August 22, 2007, CMS issued its final inpatient hospital prospective payment system rule for fiscal year 2008, which begins October 1, 2007. The final rule continues major DRG reforms designed to improve the accuracy of hospital payments. As introduced in the fiscal year 2007 final rule, CMS will continue to use hospital costs rather than charges to set payment rates. For fiscal year 2008, hospitals will be paid based upon a blend of 1/3 charge-based weights and 2/3 hospital cost-based weights for DRGs. Additionally, CMS adopted its proposal to restructure the current 538 DRGs to 745 MS-DRGs (severity-adjusted DRGs) to better recognize severity of patient illness. These MS-DRGs were phased in over a two-year period. Effective fiscal year 2009, CMS has identified eight conditions that will not be paid at a higher rate unless they were present on admission, including three serious preventable events deemed “never events.” CMS published the inpatient prospective payment system rule for 2009 on August 19, 2008. Due to the late enactment of the Medicare Improvements for Patient and Providers Act (“MIPPA”), CMS did not publish the final wage indices and payment rates for the 2009 IPPS final rule until October 2008. CMS issued the IPPS rule for 2010 on July 31, 2009. The Final IPPS rule for 2010 provides acute care hospitals with an inflation update of 2.1 percent in their 2010 payment rates. The Final IPPS rule also adds four new measures for which hospitals must submit data under the RHQDAPU program to receive the full market basket update During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, we derived 55.4% and 55.6%, respectively, of our net revenue from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Changes in laws or regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs or changes in the manner in which government agencies interpret them could materially and adversely affect our operating results or financial position. Our relationships with third-party payors are generally governed by negotiated agreements or out of network arrangements. These agreements set forth the amounts we are entitled to receive for our services. Third-party payors have undertaken cost-containment initiatives during the past several years, including different payment methods, monitoring healthcare expenditures and anti-fraud initiatives, that have made these relationships more difficult to establish and less profitable to maintain. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate if we are unable to establish favorable agreements with third-party payors or satisfactory out of network arrangements. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and government regulations applicable to us, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. We are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations relate to, among other things: • licensure, certification and accreditation, • billing, coverage and reimbursement for supplies and services, • relationships with physicians and other referral sources, • adequacy and quality of medical care, • quality of medical equipment and services, • qualifications of medical and support personnel, • confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records, • the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions, • building codes, • environmental protection, • clinical research, 21 Table of Contents • operating policies and procedures, and • addition of facilities and services. Many of these laws and regulations are expansive, and we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of them. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs, operating procedures, and contractual arrangements. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including: • criminal penalties, • civil penalties, including monetary penalties and the loss of our licenses to operate one or more of our facilities, and • exclusion of one or more of our facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. A number of initiatives have been proposed during the past several years to reform various aspects of the healthcare system at the federal level and in the states in which we operate. The U.S. Senate is currently debating the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which proposes significant changes to the healthcare payment system. Current or future legislative initiatives, government regulations or other government actions may have a material adverse effect on us. Companies within the healthcare industry continue to be the subject of federal and state investigations. Both federal and state government agencies as well as private payors have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare organizations including hospital companies. Like others in the healthcare industry, we receive requests for information from these governmental agencies in connection with their regulatory or investigative authority which, if determined adversely to us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. In addition, the Office of Inspector General and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, undertaken national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Moreover, healthcare providers are subject to civil and criminal false claims laws, including the federal False Claims Act, which allows private parties to bring what are called whistleblower lawsuits against private companies doing business with or receiving reimbursement under government programs. These are sometimes referred to as “qui tam” lawsuits. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware or which cannot be disclosed until the court lifts the seal from the case. Defendants determined to be liable under the False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Typically, each fraudulent bill submitted by a provider is considered a separate false claim, and thus the penalties under a false claim case may be substantial. Liability arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to a federal healthcare program. In some cases, whistleblowers or the federal government have taken the position that providers who allegedly have violated other statutes, such as the anti-kickback statute or the Stark Law, have thereby submitted false claims under the False Claims Act. Thus, it is possible that we have liability exposure under the False Claims Act. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. Publicity associated with the substantial amounts paid by other healthcare providers to settle these lawsuits may encourage current and former employees of ours and other healthcare providers to seek to bring more whistleblower lawsuits. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. Any such investigations of us, our executives or managers could result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse publicity. 22 Table of Contents In October 2007, we reached an agreement with the DOJ and the United States Attorneys’ Office in Phoenix, Arizona regarding clinical trials at the Arizona Heart Hospital, one of the ten hospitals in which we own an interest. The settlement concerns Medicare claims submitted between June 1998 and October 2002 for physician services involving the implantation of certain endoluminal graft devices (utilized to treat aneurysms) that had not received final marketing approval from the FDA, and allegedly were either implanted without an approved investigational device exception (“IDE”) or were implanted outside of the approved IDE protocol. The DOJ allegations did not involve patient care and related solely to whether the procedures were properly reimbursable by Medicare. The parties reached a settlement of the allegations to avoid the delay, uncertainty, inconvenience, and expense of protracted litigation. Further, the hospital denies engagement in any wrongdoing or illegal conduct, and the settlement agreement does not contain any admission of liability. As disclosed in previous filings, the hospital agreed to pay approximately $5.8 million to settle and obtain a release from any civil or administrative monetary claims related to the DOJ’s investigation. Additionally, the hospital has entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the OIG under which the hospital will continue to maintain its existing corporate compliance program and which relates to clinical trials conducted at the hospital. The $5.8 million was paid to the United States in November 2007. During fiscal years 2009 and 2008 we refunded certain reimbursements to CMS related to carotid artery stent procedures performed during prior fiscal years at two of the Company’s consolidated subsidiary hospitals. The DOJ initiated an investigation related to our return of these reimbursements. As a result of the DOJ’s investigation, the Company began negotiating a settlement agreement during the third quarter of fiscal 2009 with the DOJ whereby we are expected to pay approximately $0.8 million to settle and obtain a release from any federal civil false claims liability related to the DOJ’s investigation. The DOJ allegations do not involve patient care, and relate solely to whether the procedures were properly reimbursable by Medicare. The settlement would not include any finding of wrong-doing or any admission of liability. As part of the settlement, we are also negotiating with the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General (“OIG”), to obtain a release from any federal healthcare program permissive exclusion actions to be instituted by the OIG. As of September 30, 2009 we had reserved $0.8 million related to this matter. Medicare Recovery Audit Contractor In 2005, CMS began using Recovery Audit Contractors (“RAC”) to detect Medicare overpayments not identified through existing claims review mechanisms. The RAC program relies on private auditing firms to examine Medicare claims filed by healthcare providers. Fees to the RACs are paid on a contingency basis. The RAC program began as a demonstration project in 2005 in three states (New York, California and Florida) which was expanded into the three additional states of Arizona, Massachusetts and South Carolina in July 2007. No RAC audits, however, were initiated at our Arizona or California hospitals during the demonstration project. The program was made permanent by the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 enacted in December 2006. CMS announced in March 2008 the end of the demonstration project and the commencement of the permanent program by the expansion of the RAC program to additional states beginning in the summer and fall 2008 and its plans to have RACs in place in all 50 states by 2010. RACs perform post-discharge audits of medical records to identify Medicare overpayments resulting from incorrect payment amounts, non-covered services, incorrectly coded services, and duplicate services. CMS has given RACs the authority to look back at claims up to three years old, provided that the claim was paid on or after October 1, 2007. Claims identified as overpayments will be subject to the Medicare appeals process. Even though we believe the claims for reimbursement submitted to the Medicare program by our facilities have been accurate, we are unable to reasonably estimate what the potential result of future RAC audits or other reimbursement matters could be. If laws governing the corporate practice of medicine change, we may be required to restructure some of our relationships. The laws of various states in which we operate or may operate in the future do not permit business corporations to practice medicine, exercise control over physicians who practice medicine or engage in various business 23 Table of Contents practices, such as fee-splitting with physicians. The interpretation and enforcement of these laws vary significantly from state to state. We are not required to obtain a license to practice medicine in any jurisdiction in which we own or operate a hospital or other facility because our facilities are not engaged in the practice of medicine. The physicians who use our facilities to provide care to their patients are individually licensed to practice medicine. In most instances, the physicians and physician group practices are not affiliated with us other than through the physicians’ ownership interests in the facility or other joint ventures and through the service and lease agreements we have with some of these physicians. Should the interpretation, enforcement or laws of the states in which we operate or may operate change, we cannot assure you that such changes would not require us to restructure some of our physician relationships. If government laws or regulations change or the enforcement or interpretation of them change, we may be obligated to purchase some or all of the ownership interests of the physicians associated with us. Changes in government regulation or changes in the enforcement or interpretation of existing laws or regulations could obligate us to purchase at the then fair market value some or all of the ownership interests of the physicians who have invested in the ventures that own and operate our hospitals and other healthcare businesses. Regulatory changes that could create this obligation include changes that: • make illegal the referral of Medicare or other patients to our hospitals and other healthcare businesses by physicians affiliated with us, • create the substantial likelihood that cash distributions from the hospitals and other healthcare businesses to our physician partners will be illegal, or • make illegal the ownership by our physician partners of their interests in the hospitals and other healthcare businesses. From time to time, we may voluntarily seek to increase our ownership interest in one or more of our hospitals and other healthcare businesses, in accordance with any applicable limitations. We may seek to use shares of our common stock to purchase physicians’ ownership interests instead of cash. If the use of our stock is not permitted or attractive to us or our physician partners, we may use cash or promissory notes to purchase the physicians’ ownership interests. Our existing capital resources may not be sufficient for the acquisition or the use of cash may limit our ability to use our capital resources elsewhere, limiting our growth and impairing our operations. The creation of these obligations and the possible adverse effect on our affiliation with these physicians could have a material adverse effect on us. We may have fiduciary duties to our partners that may prevent us from acting solely in our best interests. We hold our ownership interests in hospitals and other healthcare businesses through ventures organized as limited liability companies or limited partnerships. As general partner, manager or owner of the majority interest in these entities, we may have special legal responsibilities, known as fiduciary duties, to our partners who own an interest in a particular entity. Our fiduciary duties include not only a duty of care and a duty of full disclosure but also a duty to act in good faith at all times as manager or general partner of the limited liability company or limited partnership. This duty of good faith includes primarily an obligation to act in the best interest of each business, without being influenced by any conflict of interest we may have as a result of our own business interests. We also have a duty to operate our business for the benefit of our stockholders. As a result, we may encounter conflicts between our fiduciary duties to our partners in our hospitals and other healthcare businesses, and our responsibility to our stockholders. For example, we have entered into management agreements to provide management services to our hospitals in exchange for a fee. Disputes may arise with our partners as to the nature of the services to be provided or the amount of the fee to be paid. In these cases, as manager or general partner we may be obligated to exercise reasonable, good faith judgment to resolve the disputes and may not be free to act solely in our own best interests or the interests of our stockholders. We cannot assure you that any dispute between us and our partners with respect to a particular business decision or regarding the interpretation of the provisions of the hospital operating agreement will be resolved or that, as a result of our fiduciary duties, any dispute resolution will be on terms favorable or satisfactory to us. 24 Table of Contents Material decisions regarding the operations of our facilities require consent of our physician and community hospital partners, and we may be unable as a result to take actions that we believe are in our best interest. The physician and community hospital partners in our healthcare businesses participate in material strategic and operating decisions we make for these facilities. They may do so through their representatives on the governing board of the subsidiary that owns the facility or a requirement in the governing documents that we obtain the consent of their representatives before taking specified material actions. We generally must obtain the consent of our physician and other hospital partners or their representatives before making any material amendments to the operating or partnership agreement for the venture or admitting additional members or partners. Although they have not done so to date, these rights to approve material decisions could in the future limit our ability to take actions that we believe are in our best interest and the best interest of the venture. We may not be able to resolve favorably, or at all, any dispute regarding material decisions with our physician or other hospital partners. We may experience difficulties in executing our growth strategy. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify attractive markets in which to expand existing facilities and establish new business ventures and to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. We may have difficulty in identifying potential markets that satisfy our criteria for expansion, for acquisition, or for developing a new facility or for entering into other business arrangements. Identifying physician and community hospital partners and negotiating and implementing the terms of an agreement with them can be a lengthy and complex process. As a result, we may not be able to develop new business ventures at the rate we currently anticipate. Our growth strategy also involves the expansion of several of our hospitals. The success of these expansions is dependant on increased regional support in each respective market. If the market conditions in these regions deteriorate, these expansion costs may not be recoverable. If we acquire an existing facility, there is no assurance that we will be able to operate it profitably. Our growth strategy will also increase demands on our management, operational and financial information systems and other resources. To accommodate our growth, we will need to continue to implement operational and financial information systems and controls, and expand, train, manage and motivate our employees. Our personnel, information systems, procedures or controls may not adequately support our operations in the future. Failure to recruit and retain strong management, implement operational and financial information systems and controls, or expand, train, manage or motivate our workforce, could lead to delays in developing and achieving expected operating results for new facilities. Unfavorable or unexpected results at one of our hospitals or in one of our markets could significantly impact our consolidated operating results. Each of our individual hospitals comprise a significant portion of our operating results and a majority of our hospitals are located in the southwestern United States. Any material change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in this region, a particular market in which one of our other hospitals operates or the United States in general could adversely affect our operating results. In particular, if economic conditions deteriorate in one or more of these markets, we may experience a shift in payor mix arising from patients’ loss of or changes in employer-provided health insurance resulting in higher co-payments and deductibles or an increased number of uninsured patients. Growth of self-pay patients and a deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. We have experienced growth in our self-pay patients, which includes situations in which each patient is responsible for the entire bill, as well as cases where deductibles are due from insured patients after insurance pays. We may have greater amounts of uninsured receivables in the future and if the collectability of those uninsured receivables deteriorates, increases in our allowance for doubtful accounts may be required, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Our hospitals and other facilities face competition for patients from other healthcare companies. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. Our facilities face competition for patients from other providers in our markets. In most of our markets we compete for market share of cardiovascular and other healthcare procedures that are the focus of our facilities with two to three providers. As we expand the scope of hospital services at our hospitals we may face even greater levels of competition from other larger general acute care hospitals in our markets that also provide those services. Some of these providers are part of large for-profit or not-for-profit hospital systems with greater financial resources than we have available to us and have been operating in the markets they serve for many years. Some of the hospitals that we compete against in certain of our markets and elsewhere have attempted to use their market position and managed care networks to influence physicians not to enter into or to abandon joint ventures that own facilities such as ours by, for example, revoking the admission privileges of our physician partners at the competing hospital. These practices of “economic credentialing” appear to be on the increase. Although these practices have not been successful to date in either preventing us from developing new ventures with physicians or causing us to lose existing investors, the future inability to attract new investors or loss of a significant number of our physician partners in one or more of our existing ventures could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We depend on our relationships with the physicians who use our facilities. Our business depends upon the efforts and success of the physicians who provide healthcare services at our facilities and the strength of our relationships with these physicians. Each member of the medical staffs at our hospitals may also serve on the medical staffs of, and practice at, hospitals not owned by us. At each of our hospitals, our business could be adversely affected if a significant number of key physicians or a group of physicians: • terminated their relationship with, or reduced their use of, our facilities, • failed to maintain the quality of care provided or to otherwise adhere to the legal professional standards or the legal requirements to obtain privileges at our hospitals or other facilities, • suffered any damage to their reputation, • exited the market entirely, • experienced financial issues within their medical practice or other major changes in its composition or leadership, or • align with another healthcare provider resulting in significant reduction in use of our facilities. Historically, the medical staff at each hospital ranges from approximately 150 to 400 physicians depending upon the size of the hospital and the number of practicing physicians in the market. If we fail to maintain our relationships with the physicians in this group at a particular hospital, many of whom are investors in our hospitals, the revenues of that hospital would be reduced. None of the physicians practicing at our hospitals has a legal commitment, or any other obligation or arrangement that requires the physician to refer patients to any of our hospitals or other facilities. From time to time physicians who are leaders of their medical groups and who use our hospitals may retire or otherwise cease practicing medicine or using our facilities for a variety of reasons. Those medical groups may not replace those physician leaders or may replace them with physicians who choose not to use our hospitals. Losing the utilization of our hospitals by those physicians and other physicians in their medical groups may result in material decreases in our revenue and financial performance. A hospital system with which one of our established hospitals competes recently announced a collaboration with one of the leading cardiac services physician groups in that market, some of whose physicians have historically used our hospital and are investors in that hospital. It is possible this collaboration could result in a decrease in the use of our hospital by those physicians, with a resulting decrease in the revenue and financial performance of that hospital. Similar transactions in other markets may occur in the future and could have similar negative impacts on our other facilities and the Company. 26 Table of Contents A shortage of qualified nurses could affect our ability to grow and deliver quality, cost-effective care services. We depend on qualified nurses to provide quality service to patients in our facilities. There is currently a shortage of qualified nurses in certain markets where we operate our facilities. This shortage of qualified nurses and the more stressful working conditions it creates for those remaining in the profession are increasingly viewed as a threat to patient safety and may trigger the adoption of state and federal laws and regulations intended to reduce that risk. For example, some states have adopted or are considering legislation that would prohibit forced overtime for nurses and/or establish mandatory staffing level requirements. Growing numbers of nurses are also joining unions that threaten and sometimes call work stoppages. In response to the shortage of qualified nurses, we have increased and are likely to have to continue to increase our wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses or to engage expensive contract nurses until we hire permanent staff nurses. We may not be able to increase the rates we charge to offset increased costs. The shortage of qualified nurses has in the past and may in the future delay our ability to achieve our operational goals at a hospital by limiting the number of patient beds available during the start-up phase of the hospital. The shortage of nurses also makes it difficult for us in some markets to reduce personnel expense at our facilities by implementing a reduction in the size of the nursing staff during periods of reduced patient admissions and procedure volumes. We rely heavily on our information systems and if our access to this technology is impaired or interrupted, or if such technology does not perform as warranted by the vendor, our business could be harmed and we may not comply with applicable laws and regulations. Increasingly, our business depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain in compliance with various regulations, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems, which may require the acquisition of equipment and third-party software. Our inability to implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to operate effectively, or any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities, for any reason including if such systems, or systems acquired in the future, do not perform appropriately, could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are considering acquiring EHR technology. The HITECH Act provides for incentive payments to eligible hospitals to encourage the acquisition and use of EHR systems. The amount of incentive payments a hospital may receive is based on a formula that considers the hospital’s share of Medicare patients and when the hospital satisfies all of the relevant requirements for the incentive payments. Hospitals will have to demonstrate compliance with a number of requirements in order to receive incentive payments, including without limitation, (i) meaningful use of certified EHR technology; (ii) connectivity of certified EHR technology in a manner that provides for the electronic exchange of information to improve the quality of healthcare; and (iii) submission of information to HHS on clinical quality and other measures determined by HHS. The HITECH Act directs the HHS Secretary to determine what constitutes meaningful use and connectivity, as well as to develop quality measures to be reported, and the HHS Secretary has not issued regulations or other guidance on these requirements to date. We do not know when or if EHR technology acquired by us would enable us to qualify for incentive payments under the HITECH Act, and if we did qualify for such payments, we do not know when such payments would be received or the amounts of such payments. Finally, the HITECH Act provides that hospitals that do not satisfy requirements related to EHR technology and submission of quality data by 2015 will be subject to reductions in reimbursement. Uninsured risks from legal actions related to professional liability could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. In recent years, physicians, hospitals, diagnostic centers and other healthcare providers have become subject, in the normal course of business, to an increasing number of legal actions alleging negligence in performing services, negligence in allowing unqualified physicians to perform services or other legal theories as a basis for liability. Many of these actions involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. We may be subject to such legal actions even though a particular physician at one of our hospitals or other facilities is not our employee and the governing documents for the medical staffs of each of our hospitals require physicians who provide services, 27 Table of Contents or conduct procedures, at our hospitals to meet all licensing and specialty credentialing requirements and to maintain their own professional liability insurance. We have established a reserve for malpractice claims based on actuarial estimates using our historical experience with malpractice claims and assumptions about future events. Due to the considerable variability that is inherent in such estimates, including such factors as changes in medical costs and changes in actual experience, there is a reasonable possibility that the recorded estimates will change by a material amount in the near term. Also, there can be no assurance that the ultimate liability we experience under our self-insured retention for medical malpractice claims will not exceed our estimates. It is also possible that such claims could exceed the scope of coverage, or that coverage could be denied. Our results of operations may be adversely affected from time to time by changes in treatment practice and new medical technologies. One major element of our business model is to focus on the treatment of patients suffering from cardiovascular disease. Our commitment and that of our physician partners to treating cardiovascular disease often requires us to purchase newly approved pharmaceuticals and devices that have been developed by pharmaceutical and device manufacturers to treat cardiovascular disease. At times, these new technologies receive required regulatory approval and become widely available to the healthcare market prior to becoming eligible for reimbursement by government and other payors. In addition, the clinical application of existing technologies may expand, resulting in their increased utilization. We cannot predict when new technologies will be available to the marketplace, the rate of acceptance of the new technologies by physicians who practice at our facilities, and when or if, government and third-party payors will provide adequate reimbursement to compensate us for all or some of the additional cost required to purchase new technologies. As such, our results of operations may be adversely affected from time to time by the additional, unreimbursed cost of these new technologies. In addition, advances in alternative cardiovascular treatments or in cardiovascular disease prevention techniques could reduce demand or eliminate the need for some of the services provided at our facilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, certain technologies may require significant capital investments or render existing capital obsolete which may adversely impact our cash flows or operations. California state law may impact our operations. Effective January 1, 2009, California licensed general acute hospitals are subject to increased administrative penalties associated with survey deficiencies impacting the health or safety of a patient, the unlawful or unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of a patient’s medical information and are required to screen specific patients for certain hospital-related infections and must maintain an infection control policy. Deficiencies constituting immediate jeopardy to the health or safety of a patient are subject to graduated penalties of up to a maximum $100,000 per violation (up from a maximum of $25,000 per violation). Deficiencies not constituting immediate jeopardy to the health or safety of a patient are subject to penalties up to a maximum of $25,000 per violation (up from a maximum of $17,500 per violation). Penalties for violation of the unlawful or unauthorized access are up to $25,000 per patient and a maximum of $17,500 for each subsequent access, use or disclosure of the patient’s medical information. We believe we are or will be in compliance with this new California provisions, but there can be no assurance that applicable regulatory agencies or individuals may challenge that assertion. On January 8, 2009, the California Supreme Court ruled in Prospect Medical Group, Inc., et al. v. Northridge Emergency Medical Group, et al. (2009) 45 Cal. 4th 497, that under California’s Knox-Keene statute, healthcare providers may not bill patients for covered emergency out patient services for which health plans or capitated payors are invoiced by the provider but fail to pay the provider. The California Supreme Court held that the only recourse for healthcare providers is to pursue the payors directly. The Prospect decision does not apply to amounts that the health plan or capitated payor is not obligated to pay under the terms of the insured’s policy or plan. Although the decision only considered emergency providers and referred to HMOs and capitated payors, future court decisions on how the so-called “balance billing” statute is interpreted does pose a risk to healthcare providers that perform emergency or other out-patient services in the state of California. 28 Table of Contents A purported class action law suit was recently filed by an individual against the Bakersfield Heart Hospital. In the complaint the plaintiff alleges that under California law, and specifically under the Knox-Keene Healthcare Service Plan Act of 1975, and under the Health and Safety Code of California that California prohibits the practice of “balance billing” patients who are provided “emergency services” as defined under California law. A class has not been certified by the court in this case. We are currently evaluating the claims asserted in this cause as well as the defense we may assert in this matter. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 