Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving industries such as the telecommunications and internet industries in China. As a result of our limited operating history, we have limited financial data that you can use to evaluate our business and prospects. As a result of these factors, the future revenue and income potential of our business is uncertain. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We sustained losses in the past and our historical financial information may not be representative of our future results of operations. We have experienced growth in recent periods, in part, due to the growth in China’s telecommunications and online marketing industry, which may not be representative of future growth or be sustainable. We cannot assure you that our historical financial information is indicative of our future operating results or financial performance, or that our profitability will be sustained. We face significant competition and may suffer from a loss of users and customers as a result. We face significant competition in almost every aspect of our business, particularly from other companies that seek to provide internet video services to users and provide online marketing services to customers. Our main competitors include U.S.-based internet video providers such as Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft, as well as other Chinese internet companies. These Chinese competitors include internet portals such as Netease, Sina and Sohu, other internet video service providers, such as Baidu, and business-to-business, or B2B, service providers such as Alibaba. We compete with these entities for both users and customers on the basis of user traffic, quality (relevance) and quantity (index size) of the video online, availability and ease restriction of use of products and services, the number of customers, distribution channels and the number of associated third-party websites. In addition, we may face greater competition from our U.S. competitors as a result of, among other things, a relaxation on the foreign ownership restrictions of PRC internet content and advertising companies, improvements in online payment systems and internet infrastructure in China and our U.S. competitors’ increased business activities in China. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do. They also have longer operating histories and more experience in attracting and retaining users and managing customers than we do. They may use their experience and resources to compete with us in a variety of ways, including by competing more heavily for users, customers, distributors and networks of third-party websites, investing more heavily in research and development and making acquisitions. If any of our competitors provide comparable or better Chinese language video sharing experience, our user traffic could decline significantly. Any such decline in traffic could weaken our brand, result in loss of customers and users and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We also face competition from traditional advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, yellow pages, billboards and other forms of outdoor media, television and radio. Most large companies in China allocate, and will likely continue to allocate, most of their marketing budgets to traditional advertising media and only a small portion of their budgets to online marketing. If these companies do not devote a larger portion of their marketing budgets to online marketing services provided by us, or if our existing customers reduce the amount they spend on online marketing, our results of operations and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our business depends on a strong network, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our network, we may lose customers, resulting in a reduction in revenue. We have developed our user base primarily by word-of-mouth and incurred limited brand promotion expenses. We have recently initiated brand promotion efforts, but we cannot assure you that our new marketing efforts will be successful in further promoting our brand. If we fail to promote and maintain the “MyStarU” and "Subaye" brands, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to continue to innovate and provide relevant products and services, we may not be able to generate sufficient user traffic levels to remain competitive, resulting in a loss of customers and reduction in revenue. Our success depends on providing products and services that people use for a high-quality internet video experience. Our competitors are constantly developing innovations in internet video and online marketing as well as enhancing users’ online experience. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development to enhance our internet video technology and our existing products and services and introduce additional high quality products and services to attract and retain users. If we are unable to anticipate user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose users and customers. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations do not respond to the needs of our users and customers, or are not appropriately timed with market opportunities or are not effectively brought to market. As video technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer video sharing results that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar to or better than those generated by our video services. This may force us to expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. 8 If we fail to keep up with rapid technological changes, our future success may be adversely affected due to a loss of customers and reduced ability to attract new customers. The online and telecommunications marketing industries are subject to rapid technological changes. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapidly changing technologies, adapt our services to evolving industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our services. Our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business. New marketing media could also adversely affect us. For example, the number of people accessing the internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile telephones and hand-held devices, has increased in recent years. If we are slow to develop products and technologies that are more compatible with those devices or non-PC communications devices, we may not be successful in capturing a significant share of this increasingly important market for media and other services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our products, services or infrastructure. If we fail to keep up with rapid technological changes to remain competitive in our rapidly evolving industry, our future success may be adversely affected. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could result in a reduction of income and loss of customers. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. The protection of intellectual property rights in China may not be as effective as those in the United States or other countries. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us. Moreover, unauthorized use of our technology could enable our competitors to offer internet videos online, or online advertising services that are comparable to or better than ours, which could harm our business and competitive position. From time to time, we may have to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Online marketing is a relatively novel concept in China and our business strategy may prove to be ineffective, resulting in loss of customers and revenue. If our Online Membership Services business segment fails to retain existing customers or attract new customers for our online marketing services, our business and growth prospects could be seriously harmed. Our online marketing customers will not continue to do business with us if their investment does not generate sales and ultimately consumers, or if we do not deliver their web pages in an appropriate and effective manner. Our customers may discontinue their business with us at any time and for any reason as they are not subject to fixed-term contracts. Failure to retain our existing online marketing customers or attract new customers for our online marketing services could seriously harm our business and growth prospects. Our reliance on third-party distributors poses operational risks to our business. Because we primarily rely on distributors in providing our Subaye.com VIDEO SHARING services, our failure to retain key distributors or attract additional distributors could materially and adversely affect our business. Online marketing is at an early stage of development in China and is not as widely accepted by or available to businesses in China as in the United States. As a result, we rely heavily on a nationwide distribution network of third-party distributors for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our VIDEO SHARING customers. If our distributors do not provide quality services to our VIDEO SHARING customers or otherwise breach their contracts with our VIDEO SHARING customers, we may lose customers and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our distributors, including our key distributors, and cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. Our distribution arrangements, except for those with our key distributors, are non-exclusive. Furthermore, some of our distributors also contract with our competitors or potential competitors and may not renew their distribution agreements with us. In addition, as new methods for accessing the internet, including the use of wireless devices, become available, we may need to expand our distribution network. If we fail to retain our key distributors or attract additional distributors on terms that are commercially reasonable, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 9 Our strategy of acquiring complementary businesses, assets and technologies may fail which could reduce our ability to compete for customers. As part of our business strategy, we have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, selective strategic acquisitions of businesses, assets and technologies that complement our existing business. We may make other acquisitions in the future if suitable opportunities arise. Acquisitions involve uncertainties and risks, including: • potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • failure to achieve the intended objectives, benefits or revenue-enhancing opportunities; • costs and difficulties of integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; and • diversion of resources and management attention. Our failure to address these risks successfully may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any such acquisition may require a significant amount of capital investment, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. In addition, if we use our equity securities to pay for acquisitions, we may dilute the value of your shares. If we borrow funds to finance acquisitions, such debt instruments may contain restrictive covenants that could, among other things, restrict us from distributing dividends. Such acquisitions may also generate significant amortization expenses related to intangible assets. We may not be able to manage our expanding operations effectively which could impede our growth. The Company was organized on January 6, 1997 and we have expanded our operations rapidly. We anticipate significant continued expansion of our business as we address growth in our user-base, customer-base and market opportunities. To manage the potential growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to improve operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Furthermore, our management will be required to maintain and expand our relationships with other websites, internet companies and other third parties. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly and annual revenues and costs and expenses as a percentage of our revenues may be significantly different from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause the price of our common stock to fall. Our user traffic tends to be seasonal. For example, we generally experience less user traffic during public holidays in China. In addition, advertising spending in China has historically been cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Our rapid growth has lessened the impact of the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As we continue to grow, we expect that the cyclicality and seasonality in our business may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Our business may be adversely affected by third-party software applications that interfere with our receipt of information from, and provision of information to, our users, which may impair our users’ experience, resulting in a loss of customers. Our business may be adversely affected by third-party malicious or unintentional software applications that make changes to our users’ computers and interfere with our products and services. These software applications may change our users’ internet experience by hijacking queries to our websites, altering or replacing our video play results, or otherwise interfering with our ability to connect with our users. The interference often occurs without disclosure to or consent from users, resulting in a negative experience that users may associate with our websites and the Company itself. These software applications may be difficult or impossible to remove or disable, may reinstall themselves and may circumvent other applications’ efforts to block or remove them. The ability to provide a superior user experience is critical to our success. If our efforts to combat these software applications are unsuccessful, our reputation may be harmed. This could result in a decline in user traffic and, consequently, our revenues. The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of the internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China and diminished reliability could result in loss of confidence among our users which could lead to reduced revenues or loss of customers. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the internet infrastructure in China. Almost all access to the internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Information Industry of China. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the internet through international gateways controlled by the PRC government. These international gateways are the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the internet. We cannot assure you that a more sophisticated internet infrastructure will be developed in China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s internet infrastructure. In addition, the internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in internet usage. 10 We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance and future success depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. We will need to continue to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. As competition in our industry intensifies, it may be more difficult for us to hire, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. If we do not succeed in attracting additional highly skilled personnel or retaining or motivating our existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively. If we are unable to adapt or expand our existing technology infrastructure to accommodate greater traffic or additional customer requirements, we may lose customers. Our www.mystaru.com website regularly serves a large number of users and customers and delivers a large number of daily video views. Our technology infrastructure is highly complex and may not provide satisfactory service in the future, especially as the number of customers using our web-based services increases. We may be required to upgrade our technology infrastructure to keep up with the increasing traffic on our websites, such as increasing the capacity of our hardware servers and the sophistication of our software. If we fail to adapt our technology infrastructure to accommodate greater traffic or customer requirements, our users and customers may become dissatisfied with our services and switch to our competitors’ websites, which could harm our business. If we fail to detect click-through fraud, we could lose the confidence of our customers and our revenues could decline. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks on ads posted by individuals seeking to increase the advertising fees paid to our web publishers when we commence internet advertising services. Although we have not historically generated revenues from advertising, we may do so in the future. We may have to refund revenue that our advertisers have paid to us and that was later attributed to click-through fraud. Click-through fraud occurs when an individual clicks on an ad displayed on a website for the sole intent of generating the revenue share payment to the publisher rather than to view the underlying content. From time to time it is possible that fraudulent clicks will occur and we would not allow our advertisers to be charged for such fraudulent clicks. This would negatively affect the profitability of our online advertising agency business, and this type of fraudulent act could hurt our brand. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the affected advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our performance-based advertising network, which could lead the advertisers to become dissatisfied with our online advertising agency business, and in turn lead to loss of advertisers and the related revenue. At the moment, we have no specific plans to focus on mitigating this risk through specific actions but we may need to subscribe to certain applicable software platforms that detect click-through fraud and possibly work with consultants to further mitigate this risk. This could adversely affect our business and our prospects. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Our ability to provide our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Any damage to or failure of our systems could interrupt our service. Service interruptions could reduce our revenues and profits, and damage our brand if our system is perceived to be unreliable. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of terrorist attacks, war, earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, interruptions in access to our websites through the use of “denial of service” or similar attacks, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. Our servers, which are hosted at third-party internet data centers, are also vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all possible scenarios. The occurrence of a natural disaster or a closure of an internet data center by a third-party provider without adequate notice could result in lengthy service interruptions. In October 2006, Subaye.com failed to provide internet video sharing results for approximately four hours as a result of an error in operations. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures on our website, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. The steps we plan to take to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, reduce our operating margin and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of service interruptions. If our software contains bugs, we could lose the confidence of users, resulting in loss of customers and a reduction of revenue. Our online systems, including our websites, our enterprise video play software and other software applications and products, could contain undetected errors or “bugs” that could adversely affect their performance. We regularly update and enhance our website and our other online systems and introduce new versions of our software products and applications. The occurrence of errors in any of these may cause us to lose market share, damage our reputation and brand name, and materially and adversely affect our business. 11 Concerns about the security of electronic commerce transactions and confidentiality of information on the internet may reduce use of our network and impede our growth. A significant barrier to electronic commerce and communications over the internet in general has been a public concern over security and privacy, including the transmission of confidential information. If these concerns are not adequately addressed, they may inhibit the growth of the internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. If a well-publicized internet breach of security were to occur, general internet usage could decline, which could reduce traffic to our destination websites and impede our growth. We have limited business insurance coverage and potential liabilities could exceed our ability to pay them. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure PRC laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions which could result in significant disruptions to our operations and/or our ability to generate revenues. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our vendors and customers. MyStarU.com is considered a foreign person or foreign enterprise under PRC law. As a result, we are subject to PRC law limitations on foreign ownership of internet and advertising companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. PRC laws currently provide limited guidance as to whether an internet video provider that provides video result links to domestic news websites is required to obtain an approval from the State Council News Office. PRC laws also do not provide clear guidance as to whether an internet video provider that provides links to online audio/video products is required to obtain an internet culture permit from the Ministry of Culture or a license for broadcasting audio/video programs from the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television. If the interpretation of existing laws and regulations changes or new regulations comes into effect requiring us to obtain any such licenses, permits or approvals, we cannot assure you that we may successfully obtain them, and we may need to remove links to news and audio/video products until we obtain the requisite licenses, permits and approvals. The PRC government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of internet business and companies could affect our operations, including placing limitations on our ability to own key assets, such as our websites. The PRC government extensively regulates the internet industry including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to companies in the internet industry. These internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be a violation of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to PRC government regulation of the internet industry include the following: • We only have contractual control over our websites. We do not own the websites due to the restriction of foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services in China, including online information services. • There are uncertainties relating to the regulation of the internet business in China, including evolving licensing practices, which means that permits, licenses or operations at some of our companies may be subject to challenge. This may disrupt our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement, or compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. • Certain PRC government authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of promulgating new laws and regulations that will regulate internet activities. The areas of regulation may include online advertising, online news displaying, online audio-video program broadcasting and the provision of culture-related information over the internet. Other aspects of our online operations may be regulated in the future. If our operations do not comply with these new regulations at the time they become effective, we could be subject to penalties. 12 The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, internet businesses in China, including our business. In order to comply with PRC laws limiting foreign ownership of internet and advertising businesses, we conduct our ICP (independent content provider) and online advertising businesses through our PRC-organized subsidiary. If the PRC government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our ability to operate could be significantly reduced resulting in loss of customers and revenue. The PRC government restricts foreign investment in internet and advertising businesses. Accordingly, we operate our websites and our online advertising business in China through our PRC-organized subsidiary. Our PRC-organized subsidiary holds the licenses and approvals necessary to operate our website and our online advertising business in China. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to enforce these contracts. Although we believe we comply with current PRC regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that these operating arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the PRC government determines that we do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, block our website, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. Risks Related to Doing Business in China If the internet and, in particular, online marketing are not broadly adopted in China, our ability to increase revenue and sustain profitability could be significantly reduced. The use of the internet as a marketing channel is at an early stage in China. Internet and broadband penetration rates in China are both relatively low compared to those in most developed countries. Many of our current and potential customers have limited experience with the internet as a marketing channel, and have not historically devoted a significant portion of their marketing budgets to online marketing and promotion. As a result, they may not consider the internet effective in promoting their products and services as compared to traditional print and broadcast media. Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the internet in China may disrupt our operations and subject us to liability for information linked to our websites, resulting in reduced income. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the internet. Under these regulations, internet content providers and internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is reactionary, obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the revocation of licenses to provide internet content and other licenses and the closure of the concerned websites. In the past, failure to comply with such requirements has resulted in the closure of certain websites. The website operator may also be held liable for such censored information displayed on or linked to the website. In addition, the Ministry of Information Industry has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for content displayed on their websites and the actions of users and others using their systems, including liability for violations of PRC laws prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local internet service provider to block any internet website at its sole discretion. From time to time, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the dissemination over the internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The State Secrecy Bureau is also authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking State secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of State secrets in the dissemination of online information. Although we attempt to monitor the content in our video sharing results and on our Subaye.com VIDEO UPLOADER, we are not able to control or restrict the content of other internet content providers linked to or accessible through our websites, or content generated or placed on our VIDEO UPLOADER by our users. To the extent that PRC regulatory authorities find any content displayed on our websites objectionable, they may require us to limit or eliminate the dissemination of such information on our websites, which may reduce our user traffic and have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may be subject to penalties for violations of those regulations arising from information displayed on or linked to our websites, including a suspension or shutdown of our online operations. 13 PRC government authorities may deem certain third-party websites unlawful and could require us to remove links to such websites, which may reduce our user traffic and reduce revenues. The internet industry in China, including the operation of online activities, is extensively regulated by the PRC government. Various PRC government authorities, such as the State Council, the Ministry of Information Industry, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the State Press and Publication Administration and the Ministry of Public Security are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the internet and online activities. Substantial uncertainties exist regarding the potential impact of current and future PRC laws and regulations on internet video providers. We are not able to control or restrict the operation of third-party websites linked to or accessible through our website. If third-party websites linked to or accessible through our websites operate unlawful activities such as online gambling on their websites, PRC regulatory authorities may require us to remove the links to such websites or suspend or shut down the operation of such websites. This in turn may reduce our user traffic and adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be subject to potential liabilities for providing links to third-party websites that operate unlawful activities. Intensified government regulation of internet cafes could restrict our ability to maintain or increase user traffic to our website. In April 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation of internet cafes. In particular, a large number of unlicensed internet cafes have been closed. In addition, the PRC government has imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of internet cafes. Furthermore, the PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional internet cafe chains and discourages the establishment of independent internet cafes, may slow down the growth of internet cafes. Recently, the Ministry of Culture, together with other government authorities, issued a joint notice suspending the issuance of new internet cafe licenses. It is unclear when this suspension will be lifted. So long as internet cafes are one of the primary venues for our users to access our website, any reduction in the number, or any slowdown in the growth, of internet cafes in China could limit our ability to maintain or increase user traffic to our website. If PRC law were to phase out the preferential tax benefits currently being extended to foreign invested enterprises and “new or high-technology enterprises” located in a high-tech zone, we would have to pay more taxes, which could result in reduced income. Under PRC laws and regulations, a foreign invested enterprise may enjoy preferential tax benefits if it is registered in a high-tech zone and also qualifies as a “new or high-technology enterprise” or a “software developer enterprise.” If the PRC law were to phase out preferential tax benefits currently granted to “new or high-technology enterprises” and technology consulting services, we would be subject to the standard statutory tax rate, which currently is 33%, and we would be unable to obtain business tax refunds for our provision of technology consulting services. Loss of these preferential tax treatments could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our cash receipts are primarily derived from cash transfers from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay cash or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our Common Stock. Recent PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or otherwise adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a public notice in January 2005 concerning foreign exchange regulations on mergers and acquisitions in China. The public notice states that if an offshore company intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the relevant foreign exchange authorities. The public notice also states that the approval of the relevant foreign exchange authorities is required for any sale or transfer by the PRC residents of a PRC company’s assets or equity interests to foreign entities, such as us, for equity interests or assets of the foreign entities. 14 In April 2005, SAFE issued another public notice clarifying the January notice. In accordance with the April notice, if an acquisition of a PRC company by an offshore company controlled by PRC residents had been confirmed by a Foreign Investment Enterprise Certificate prior to the issuance of the January notice, each of the PRC residents is required to submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch to register his or her respective ownership interests in the offshore company. The SAFE notices do not specify the timeframe during which such registration must be completed. The PRC resident must also amend such registration form if there is a material event affecting the offshore company, such as, among other things, a change to share capital, a transfer of stock, or if such company is involved in a merger and an acquisition or a spin-off transaction or uses its assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. We have notified our shareholders who are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notices. However, we cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE notices. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE notices will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE notices. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Fluctuation in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in RMB, while a significant portion of our financial assets are denominated in U.S. dollars. We rely entirely on dividends and other fees paid to us by our subsidiaries and affiliated entity in China. Any significant revaluation of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our stock in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investment or expenditure more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. An appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our RMB denominated financial assets into U.S. Dollars, as the U.S. Dollar is our reporting currency. Risks Related to Our Stock Being Publicly Traded Our stock price may be volatile. We cannot predict the extent to which a trading market will develop for our common stock or how liquid that market might become. The trading price of our common stock is expected to be highly volatile as well as subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • Quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors. • Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments. • Our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis. • Changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals. • Changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts. • General economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. You may experience substantial dilution if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity and/or convertible securities. We are likely to engage in equity financing in the future in order to raise funds for working capital, financing expansion efforts and/or investing in research and development. Such financing may result in a substantial dilution of your equity stake in our company. 15 