Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report, including the risk factors set forth. The following is not an exhaustive discussion of all of the risks facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may impair our wind-down. We cannot predict the timing, amount or mechanics of any potential future distributions to our stockholders. Many unknown variables will affect the amount, timing and mechanics of any potential future distributions to stockholders. Factors that could have a material effect on the amount of any potential future distributions include, but are not limited to, a failure to sell remaining assets, the amount of asset and corporate wind-down related operating and other expenses, MedCath’s tax treatment, inability to collect amounts owed to MedCath and any required reserves to address potential liabilities, including retained and contingent liabilities, including but not limited to those arising from the sales of the assets of both MedCath or its individual hospitals, and/or other unforeseen events. These and other factors, such as the procedures established under Delaware law for the dissolution of a Delaware corporation, could also delay the timing of any potential distributions. 11 Table of Contents Stockholders may not be able to recognize a loss for federal income tax purposes until they receive a final distribution from us, which may be three years or more after the Filing. As a result of our liquidation, for federal income tax purposes, stockholders will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between (1) the sum of the amount of cash and the aggregate fair market value of any property distributed to them (reduced by any liability assumed or subject to which it is taken), and (2) their tax basis in their shares of our common stock. A shareholder’s tax basis in our shares will depend upon various factors, including the shareholder’s cost and the amount and nature of any distributions received with respect thereto. A shareholder generally may recognize a loss only when he, she or it has received a final distribution from us, which may be as much as three years (or up to ten years if the Company elects to comply with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law) after our Dissolution. Furthermore, gain on the distributions in liquidation of the Company will be recognized with respect to a share only when the amount of the aggregate distributions (in money or in the fair market value of property distributed to the stockholder or on his behalf) with respect to such share exceeds the tax basis in such share. After the stockholder has received distributions with respect to a share that equal his tax basis in such share, all distributions with respect to such share will be taxable as capital gain. We urge each stockholder to consult with his or her own tax advisors regarding tax consequences of the distributions. Future cash distributions to stockholders could be substantially reduced and delayed as part of our liquidation and dissolution due to the pending ICD Investigation. On March 12, 2010, the DOJ issued a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) to one of the Company’s hospitals regarding ICD implantations (the “ICD Investigation”). The CID was issued in connection with an ongoing, national investigation relating to ICDs and Medicare coverage requirements for these devices. The CID requested certain documents and patient medical records regarding the implantation of ICDs for the period 2002 to the present. The Company has provided materials responsive to the CID. On September 17, 2010, consistent with letters received by other hospitals and hospital systems, the DOJ sent a letter notifying the Company of the DOJ’s investigation of eight Company hospitals (including the hospital receiving the CID) regarding ICD implantations. Of such hospitals, the Company is not liable for findings for two of these hospitals under the terms of the sales agreements of these two hospitals. In its letter, the DOJ stated that its review was preliminary and its data suggests that Company hospitals may have submitted claims for ICDs and related services that were inconsistent with Medicare policy. The primary focus of the DOJ’s investigation involves ICDs implanted since October 1, 2003 within prohibited timeframes (i.e., timeframe violations). A “timeframe violation” involves an ICD implanted for “primary prevention” (i.e., prevention of sudden cardiac death in patients without a history of induced or spontaneous arrhythmias) within 30 days of a myocardial infarction, or within 90 days of a coronary artery bypass graft or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. The timeframes do not apply to ICDs implanted for “secondary prevention” (i.e., prevention of sudden cardiac death in patients who have survived a prior cardiac arrest or sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia). On November 19, 2010, the DOJ provided the Company a spreadsheet detailing instances (based upon the DOJ’s data) in which an ICD was implanted at the eight Company hospitals in potential violation of the applicable timeframes. The data provided by the DOJ is “raw,” and the Company understands that, as of this date, such data had not been analyzed by the DOJ. Additionally, the DOJ confirmed that some of the ICDs identified in its data as alleged timeframe violations were in fact appropriately implanted and billed to Medicare, including those implanted for secondary prevention. Since November 2010, the Company has developed and presented arguments to the DOJ supporting the ICD implantations under investigation. On August 30, 2012, the DOJ publicly released a proposed framework for potential resolution of the ICD Investigation. The Company has reviewed and continues to provide input to the DOJ regarding the investigation. As discussed above, the Company has complied with all requests from the DOJ for information and is actively engaged in discussions with the DOJ regarding the issues involved in the ICD Investigation. Pursuant to the DOJ’s requests, the Company has entered into tolling agreements that tolled the statute of limitations for allegations related to ICDs until April 30, 2013. To date, the DOJ has not asserted any claims against the Company and the Company expects to continue to have input into the investigation. The Company is unable to evaluate the outcome of the investigation and is unable to reasonably estimate the amounts to be repaid, which may be material upon resolution of the investigation. However, the Company understands that this investigation is being conducted under the False Claims Act which could expose the Company to treble damages should the DOJ’s preliminary analysis of the Company’s hospitals’ ICD claims be substantiated. The Company’s total ICD net revenue historically has been a material component of total net patient revenue and the results of this investigation could have a material effect on the Company’s net assets in liquidation and the amount it will be able to distribute to its stockholders in connection with any post-Filing liquidating distributions. Cash distributions to stockholders could be substantially limited and delayed since, as part of our liquidation and dissolution, the Company is required to make adequate provision to satisfy all of our known and unknown liabilities before authorizing any cash distribution to stockholders. Prior to making any post-Filing liquidating distributions, the Company must pay, or establish reserves to pay, the Company’s liabilities (which may be material), including without limitation (a) any liabilities arising out of the ICD Investigation, (b) other currently unknown or unanticipated liabilities, and (c) any additional liabilities that may arise or be identified after the Filing. However, the process of accounting for our liabilities (including those that are presently unknown) involve assumptions, estimates and complex valuations. 12 Table of Contents These uncertainties could impede the Board’s ability to make, and diminish the amount available, for distribution to our stockholders. Substantial time may be required for us to determine the extent of our liabilities to known third party creditors and claimants and for us to settle or judicially resolve any claims that are contested. Furthermore, pursuant to the DGCL, we may be subject to claims being commenced against us for liabilities unknown to us after dissolution. A period of time, likely more than nine months but potentially a significantly longer period, must elapse before we may make any post-Filing liquidating distributions, if any, to allow for the notice and claims process. Such distributions may be made in more than one installment over an extended period of time. If our Holdback is insufficient to satisfy our liabilities, creditors could assert claims against us seeking to prevent distributions or against our stockholders to the extent of distributions received. If a court holds at any time that we have failed to make adequate provision for our expenses and liabilities or if the amount ultimately required to be paid in respect of such liabilities exceeds the amount available from the Holdback, our creditors could seek an injunction preventing us from making post-Filing liquidating distributions to our stockholders. Any such action could delay or substantially diminish the amount of any cash distributions to stockholders. If we fail to create an adequate Holdback for payment of our expenses and liabilities, creditors could assert claims against each stockholder receiving a distribution for the payment of such stockholder’s pro rata share of any shortfall, up to the amounts previously received by the stockholder in post-Filing liquidating distributions from us. The directors and officers of the Company will continue to receive benefits from the Company following the sale of all or substantially all of the remaining assets, the Complete Liquidation and the Dissolution. Following the Filing, we will continue to indemnify each of our current and former directors and officers to the extent permitted under the DGCL and the Company’s certificate of incorporation, bylaws and agreements as in effect at the time of the Filing. In addition, we intend to maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance coverage throughout the wind down period and through the lapse of the statute of limitations period on potential claims. We depend on key personnel including our senior management who are important to the success of the liquidation of our business. We have entered into an employment contract with Lora Ramsey, our Chief Financial Officer who will become the Company’s President in addition to serving as our Chief Financial Officer, upon the retirement in December 2012 of Art Parker, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer. The successful winding down of our affairs will depend to a significant extent on the employment and services of Mrs. Ramsey. The loss of this relationship could have a material adverse effect on the process of winding down our affairs and our ability to settle and close our business, to dispose of and convey our remaining property, to discharge our liabilities and to distribute to our stockholders any remaining assets. We may have fiduciary duties to our partners that may prevent us from acting solely in our best interests. We held our ownership interests in hospitals and other healthcare businesses through ventures organized as limited liability companies or limited partnerships. As general partner, manager or owner of the majority interest in these entities, we may have special legal responsibilities, known as fiduciary duties, to our partners who own an interest in a particular entity. Our fiduciary duties may include not only a duty of care and a duty of full disclosure but also a duty to act in good faith at all times as manager or general partner of the limited liability company or limited partnership. This duty of good faith includes an obligation to act in the best interest of each business, without being influenced by any conflict of interest we may have as a result of our own business interests to the extent they might conflict. We also have a duty to operate our business for the benefit of our stockholders. As a result, we may have had conflicts between our fiduciary duties to our partners in our hospitals and other healthcare businesses, and our responsibility to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that any dispute between us and our partners with respect to a particular business decision or regarding the interpretation of the provisions of the hospital operating agreement will be resolved or that, as a result of our fiduciary duties, any dispute resolution will be on terms favorable or satisfactory to us. Companies within the healthcare industry continue to be the subject of federal and state investigations. Both federal and state government agencies as well as private payors have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare organizations including hospital companies. Like others in the healthcare industry, we receive requests for information from these governmental agencies in connection with their regulatory or investigative authority which, if determined adversely to us, could have a material effect on our financial condition or our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, the Office of Inspector General and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, undertaken national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Moreover, healthcare providers are subject to civil and criminal false claims laws, including the federal False Claims Act, which allows private parties to bring what are called whistleblower lawsuits against private companies doing business with or receiving reimbursement under government programs. These are sometimes referred to as “qui tam” lawsuits. 13 Table of Contents Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware or which cannot be disclosed until the court lifts the seal from the case. Defendants determined to be liable under the False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Typically, each fraudulent bill submitted by a provider is considered a separate false claim, and thus the penalties under a false claim case may be substantial. Liability arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to a federal healthcare program. In some cases, whistleblowers or the federal government have taken the position that providers who allegedly have violated other statutes, such as the anti-kickback statute or the Stark Law, have thereby submitted false claims under the False Claims Act. Thus, it is possible that we have liability exposure under the False Claims Act. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. Publicity associated with the substantial amounts paid by other healthcare providers to settle these lawsuits may encourage current and former employees of ours and other healthcare providers to seek to bring more whistleblower lawsuits. Some of our previous activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. Any such investigations of us, our current or former executives or managers could result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse publicity. In June 2011, we reached agreement with the United States Attorneys’ Office in Phoenix regarding an excluded individual at one of the Company’s former hospitals. As part of the settlement agreement, the Company denied engagement in any wrongdoing or illegal conduct and the settlement agreement does not contain any admission of liability. On June 27, 2011, the Company paid approximately $0.2 million to settle the matter. During 2012, the DOJ/OIG has been investigating one of the Company’s former hospitals regarding certain procedures performed at the hospital during the period January 2003 through December 2009. To date, the DOJ/OIG has not requested any documents or patient medical records from the hospital nor requested to meet with any Company personnel or representatives. The Company retains responsibility for any potential hospital liability associated with the investigation and intends to cooperate with the investigation. The DOJ/OIG has not asserted any claims against the Company. Because the investigation is in its early stages, the Company is unable to evaluate the outcome of the investigation and is unable to reasonably estimate the amounts to be repaid, if any. See also the discussion above regarding the risk that future cash distributions to stockholders could be substantially reduced and delayed as part of our liquidation and dissolution due to the pending ICD investigation. Ongoing audits by Recovery Audit Contractors (“RAC”) could have a material effect on our net assets in liquidation. In 2005, the CMS began using RACs to detect Medicare overpayments not identified through existing claims review mechanisms. The RAC program relies on private auditing firms to examine Medicare claims filed by healthcare providers and fees are paid to the RACs on a contingency basis. RACs perform post-discharge audits of medical records to identify Medicare overpayments resulting from incorrect payment amounts, non-covered services, incorrectly coded services, and duplicate services. The CMS has given RACs the authority to look back at claims up to three years old, provided that the claim was paid on or after October 1, 2007. Claims identified as overpayments will be subject to the Medicare appeals process. The Health Care Reform Laws expanded the RAC program’s scope to include Medicaid claims by requiring all states to enter into contracts with RACs. During the last quarter, there has been an increase in RAC activity nationwide. Even though we believe the claims for reimbursement submitted to the Medicare and Medicaid program by our former facilities have been accurate, we are unable to reasonably estimate what the potential result of future RAC audits or other reimbursement matters could be. Uninsured risks from legal actions related to professional liability could adversely affect our net assets in liquidation. In recent years, physicians, hospitals, diagnostic centers and other healthcare providers have become subject, in the normal course of business, to an increasing number of legal actions alleging negligence in performing services, negligence in allowing unqualified physicians to perform services or other legal theories as a basis for liability. Many of these actions involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. Our subsidiaries that previously owned hospitals may be subject to such legal actions even though a particular physician at one of our hospitals or other facilities was not our employee and the governing documents for the medical staffs of each of our previously owned hospitals required physicians who provide services, or conduct procedures, at our hospitals to meet all licensing and specialty credentialing requirements and to maintain their own professional liability insurance. We have established a reserve for malpractice claims based on actuarial estimates using our historical experience with malpractice claims and assumptions about future events. Due to the considerable variability that is inherent in such estimates, including such factors as changes in medical costs and changes in actual experience, there is a reasonable possibility that the recorded estimates will change by a material amount in the near term. Also, there can be no assurance that the ultimate liability we experience under our self-insured retention for medical malpractice claims will not exceed our estimates. It is also possible that such claims could exceed the scope of coverage, or that coverage could be denied. 14 Table of Contents Uninsured risks from other legal matters could adversely affect our net assets in liquidation. On September 18, 2012 the former physician-controlled partners in the limited partnership that previously owned a hospital located in San Antonio, Texas (the “Plaintiffs”) filed a lawsuit in the District Court of Bexar County, Texas against San Antonio Hospital Management, Inc., San Antonio Holdings, Inc. and MedCath Incorporated (the “San Antonio Defendants”), each of which is a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company. In their lawsuit, which has subsequently been removed by the San Antonio Defendants to and is currently pending in the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas, the Plaintiffs allege that the San Antonio Defendants breached certain contractual obligations, fiduciary and other duties which they purportedly owed to the San Antonio Defendants in connection with the sale of the hospital interests of the Plaintiffs to the San Antonio Defendants and the defense of allegations by the DOJ regarding its ICD Investigation (the “San Antonio Action”). The Plaintiffs are seeking compensatory damages of $3.3 million, exemplary damages of $6.6 million and other relief. The San Antonio Defendants intend to vigorously defend the San Antonio Action. If the San Antonio Action is adversely determined, the amounts available for future distribution to our stockholders could be reduced. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 