Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our securities could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. A substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, in particular commercial real estate. Continued deterioration in the real estate markets or other segments of our loan portfolio could lead to additional losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, excluding loans acquired in the Heritage, Benchmark, Broadway and New Century FDIC-assisted transactions and covered by our loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC for those transactions, approximately 45% of our total loan portfolio was secured by real estate (compared to approximately 50% as of December 31, 2010), the majority of which is commercial real estate. The commercial and residential real estate market continues to experience a variety of difficulties. In particular, market conditions in the Chicago metropolitan area, in which a majority of our real estate loans are concentrated, have declined significantly beginning in 2008. As a result of increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declining real estate values, which reduce the customer’s borrowing power and the value of the collateral securing the loan, for the last four years, we have experienced much higher than normal levels of charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continued increases in delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate values, which cause our borrowers’ loan-to-value ratios to increase, could result in additional charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. This could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. Our commercial real estate loans make up approximately 31% of the loan portfolio and underlying weakness in the real estate market result in additional risk in the portfolio. Our commercial real estate portfolio consists of healthcare, industrial, multifamily, office, retail and church and schools loans. Our concentration in commercial real estate loans involves additional risk as the values of the properties securing the loans have declined. Vacancy rates have increased, resulting in lower cash flows on the underlying properties and stress on our customers to repay their loans. At December 31, 2011, excluding loans acquired in the Heritage, Benchmark, Broadway and New Century FDIC-assisted transactions and covered by our loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC for those transactions, our commercial real estate loans totaled $1.9 billion, or 31% of our total loan portfolio. This loan type represented approximately 59% of our total non-performing loans as of December 31, 2011. The deterioration in the quality of our commercial real estate portfolio has been a significant factor behind the higher than normal charge-offs and provisions for loan losses we have experienced over the last three years. The Chicago area real estate market remains weak, and we believe that further deterioration in the quality of our commercial real estate portfolio is a possibility. This could result in additional charge-offs and provisions for loan losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Repayment of our commercial loans and lease loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower or lessee, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. We make our commercial loans primarily based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Collateral securing commercial loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and fluctuate in value. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect the amounts due from its customers. Accordingly, we make our commercial loans primarily based on the historical and expected cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on underlying collateral provided by the borrower. We lend money to small and mid-sized independent leasing companies to finance the debt portion of leases (which we refer to as lease loans). A lease loan arises when a leasing company discounts the equipment rental revenue stream owed to the leasing company by a lessee. Our lease loans entail many of the same types of risks as our commercial loans. Lease loans generally are non-recourse to the leasing company, and, consequently, our recourse is limited to the lessee and the leased equipment. As with commercial loans secured by equipment, the equipment 17 Table of Contents securing our lease loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. We rely on the lessee’s continuing financial stability, rather than the value of the leased equipment, for the repayment of all required amounts under lease loans. In the event of a default on a lease loan, it is unlikely that the proceeds from the sale of the leased equipment will be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding unpaid amounts under the terms of the loan. Changes in economic conditions, particularly a further economic slowdown in the Chicago area, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2008, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that continued through 2011. Further deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within the Chicago area, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could hurt our business materially: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; · collateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power and reducing the value of collateral securing our loans; and · the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us. Except for our leasing and lease loan activities and certain treasury management services, which are nationwide, our lending and deposit gathering activities are concentrated in the Chicago metropolitan area. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of this metropolitan area and its surrounding areas. Many of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate. Most of these loans are secured by properties located in the Chicago metropolitan area. Deterioration in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could negatively affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as tornados. Negative changes in the regional and general economy could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans and generally have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. The United States has experienced an economic downturn beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2011. While economic growth may have resumed recently, the rate of this growth has been very low and unemployment remains at high levels. Many lending institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, especially construction and commercial real estate loans. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. These conditions may have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices, regulations requiring higher capital levels and liquidity standards are expected, and bank regulatory agencies have been and are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation and regulations in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate loans, and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Overall, during the past few years, the general business environment has had a negative effect on our business. Until there is a sustained improvement in economic conditions, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be negatively affected. 18 Table of Contents The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and Europe’s debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+ on August 5, 2011. A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Any such adverse impact could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our investment securities are issued by and some of our loans are made to U.S. government agencies and U.S. government sponsored entities. In addition, the possibility that certain European Union (“EU”) member states will default on their debt obligations have negatively impacted economic conditions and global markets. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of international and the EU’s financial support programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets could also have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; · the credit experience of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and · the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: · our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience as well as current macroeconomic factors; and · our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and their underlying collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we may need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, most likely, capital, and may have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The value of the securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. Due to heightened credit and liquidity risks and the volatile economy, making the determination of the value of a securities portfolio is less certain. There can be no assurance that decline in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary or permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could significantly increase our non-interest expense. FDIC insurance rates increased significantly in 2009, and we may pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum DRR. The FDIC has determined that the DRR should be 2.0% and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum DRR of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the statutory minimum DRR to 1.35% from the former statutory minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset or how larger institutions will be affected by it. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the FDIC to base insurance premium on an institution’s total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. The FDIC has adopted regulations under which, effective for assessments for the second quarter of 2011 and payable at the end of September 2011, a bank that has had total assets of $10 billion or more for four consecutive quarters is assessed quarterly for deposit insurance under a scorecard method, using a performance score and a loss severity score, which are combined and converted into an initial base assessment rate which is subject to certain adjustments. It is possible that our insurance premiums will increase under these regulations. Changes in interest rates may reduce our net interest income. Our consolidated operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense incurred on deposits and other borrowings. Our net interest income is impacted by changes in market rates of interest, changes in credit spreads, changes in the shape of the yield curve, the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities, prepayments on our loans and investments, and the mix of our funding sources and assets. Our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. Interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types may lag behind. The result of these changes to rates may cause differing spreads on interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. While we take measures intended to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates, we cannot control or accurately predict changes in market rates of interest or be sure our protective measures are adequate. We pursue a strategy of supplementing internal growth by acquiring other financial companies or their assets and liabilities that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy, including the following: · We may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets, and liabilities we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected; · Prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future; · The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful. · To the extent our costs of an acquisition exceed the fair value of the net assets acquired, the acquisition will generate goodwill. As discussed below, we are required to assess our goodwill for impairment at least annually, and any goodwill impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition; · To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; and · We have completed various acquisitions and opened additional banking offices in the past few years that enhanced our rate of growth. We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future. Our participation in the loss-share agreements with the FDIC requires that we follow certain servicing procedures. MB Financial Bank entered into loss-share agreements with the FDIC as part of the Heritage, Benchmark, 20 Table of Contents Broadway and New Century transactions. These loss-share agreements require that MB Financial Bank follow certain servicing procedures as specified in the agreement. A failure to follow these procedures or any other breach of the agreement by MB Financial Bank could result in the loss of FDIC reimbursement of losses on covered loans and other real estate owned, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth or losses, both internally and through acquisitions. Any capital we obtain may result in the dilution of the interests of existing holders of our common stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time (which are outside our control) and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances of our ability to raise additional capital if needed, or if the terms will be acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and negatively affected. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs. Liquidity is essential to our business, as we must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or negative regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits or support our future growth. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. These sources include brokered certificates of deposit, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Negative operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to an inability to replace these additional funding sources at maturity. Our financial flexibility could be constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. The soundness of other financial institutions could negatively affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be negatively affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of the difficulties or failures of other banks, which would increase the capital we need to support our growth. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could 21 Table of Contents result in fines or sanctions. During the last year, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. We provide treasury management services to money services businesses, which include: check cashers, issuers/sellers of traveler’s checks, money orders and stored value cards, and money transmitters. Money services businesses pose risk of compliance with regulatory guidance. We provide treasury management services to the check cashing industry, offering: check clearing, monetary instrument, depository, and credit services. We also provide treasury management services to money transmitters. Financial institutions that open and maintain accounts for money services businesses are expected to apply the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act and Bank Secrecy Act, as they do with all accountholders, on a risk-assessed basis. As with any category of accountholder, there will be money services businesses that pose little risk of money laundering or lack of compliance with other laws and regulations and those that pose a significant risk. Providing treasury management services to money services businesses represent a significant compliance and regulatory risk, and failure to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements could result in fines or sanctions. Financial reform legislation will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. This law significantly changes the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Among the many requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for new banking regulations is a requirement for new capital regulations to be adopted within 18 months. These regulations must be at least as stringent as, and may call for higher levels of capital than, current regulations. Generally, trust preferred securities will no longer be eligible as Tier 1 capital, but the Company’s currently outstanding trust preferred securities will be grandfathered and its currently outstanding TARP preferred securities will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital. In addition, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is required to seek to make its capital requirements for national banks, such as MB Financial Bank, countercyclical so that capital requirements increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, one year after the date of its enactment, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution and are generally expected to increase for institutions having total assets in excess of $10 billion. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts and IOLTA accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act increased the authority of the Federal Reserve Board to examine the Company and its non-bank subsidiaries and gave the Federal Reserve Board the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for an electronic debit transaction by a payment card issuer that, together with its affiliates, has assets of $10 billion or more, and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer. By regulation, the Federal Reserve Board has limited the fees for such a transaction to the sum of 21 cents plus five basis points times the value of the transaction, plus up to one cent for fraud prevention costs. The Dodd-Frank Act also restricts proprietary trading by banks, bank holding companies and others, and their acquisition and retention of ownership interests in and sponsorship of hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to an exception allowing a bank to organize and offer hedge funds and private equity funds to 22 Table of Contents customers if certain conditions are met, including, among others, a requirement that the bank limit its ownership interest in any single fund to 3% and its aggregate investment in all funds to 3% of Tier 1 capital, with no director or employee of the bank holding an ownership interest in the fund unless he or she provides services directly to the funds. The Dodd-Frank Act created a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company. However, compliance with this law and its implementing regulations has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion of the Dodd-Frank Act, see “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation-Regulatory Reform.” New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company’s stockholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Item 1. Business-Supervision and Regulation”. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial liabilities. We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of certain key personnel could negatively affect our operations. Our success depends in large part on the retention of a limited number of key management and other banking personnel. We could undergo a difficult transition period if we were to lose the services of any of these individuals. Our success also depends on the experience of our banking facilities’ managers and bankers and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve. The loss of these key persons could negatively impact the affected banking operations. As a result of our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to significant restrictions on compensation payable to our executive officers and other key employees. Our ability to attract and retain key officers and employees may be impacted by legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. In 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the “ARRA”) became law. The ARRA, through the implementing regulations of the U.S. Treasury, significantly expanded the executive compensation restrictions originally imposed on TARP participants, including us. Among other things, these restrictions limit our ability to pay bonuses and other incentive compensation and make severance payments. These restrictions will continue to apply to us for as long as the preferred stock we issued pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program remains outstanding. These restrictions may negatively affect our ability to compete with financial institutions that are not subject to the same limitations. We may experience future goodwill impairment. If our estimates of the fair value of our goodwill change as a result of changes in our business or other factors, we may determine that an impairment charge is necessary. Estimates of fair value are based on a complex model using, among other things, cash flows and company comparisons. As of December 31, 2011, our market capitalization 23 Table of Contents was less than the book value of our total common stockholders’ equity. Should this condition continue to exist for an extended period of time, the Company will consider this and other factors, including the Company’s anticipated cash flows, to determine whether goodwill is impaired. Our future cash flows estimates assume similar credit performance as we have seen in the last two quarters of 2011. If this does not happen, our future cash flows would be negatively impacted. Given the weak economy and the credit performance we experienced in 2009 and 2010, there is a high degree of uncertainty regarding this assumption. No assurance can be given that the Company will not record an impairment loss on goodwill in the future and any such impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our business lines and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, brokerage houses, mutual funds, insurance companies and specialized finance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than we are in order to obtain a share of the market. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. In addition, increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies may negatively affect our ability to successfully market our products and services. As a result, these competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our customers’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may seek to implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, which could in turn have a material negative effect on our operating results. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 