Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving industries such as the Internet industry in China. As a result of our limited operating history, we have limited financial data that you can use to evaluate our business and prospects. As a result of these factors, the future revenue and income potential of our business is uncertain. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We have generated profits in the past but our historical financial information may not be representative of our future results of operations. We have experienced growth in recent periods, in part, due to the growth in China’s Internet industry, which may not be representative of future growth or be sustainable. We cannot assure you that our historical financial information is indicative of our future operating results or financial performance, or that our profitability will be sustained. Most potential customers of our BCP have previously and possibly recently invested significantly in traditional enterprise computer hardware and computer software products. As a result, these potential customers may be unwilling or unable to justify a transition to a cloud computing product such as our BCP. We focus our business development efforts on SMEs. Cloud computing is at an early stage of development and deployment in China. As a result, we acknowledge that most of our potential customers currently utilize traditional enterprise computer hardware and computer software. Transitioning to cloud computing would result in the traditional enterprise computer hardware and software being replaced not just on a temporary basis but more likely on a permanent basis. As a result, the loss on the investment in the traditional enterprise computer hardware and computer software may be difficult for our potential customers to accept in the near future and there may be an inherent delay in the adoption of cloud computing by these potential customers. 15 We face significant competition and may suffer from a loss of customers as a result. We face significant competition in almost every aspect of our business, particularly from other companies that seek to provide Internet-based business services such as cloud computing and video-based marketing services to SMEs. Our main competitors include both Chinese companies and global technology providers. We compete with these entities for customers on the basis of the quality of our online business services, user traffic, quality (relevance) and quantity (index size) of the information being searched, availability and ease restriction of use of products and services, the number of customers, distribution channels and the number of associated third-party websites. In addition, we may face greater competition from global technology providers as a result of, among other things, a relaxation on the foreign ownership restrictions of Chinese Internet content and advertising companies, improvements in online payment systems and Internet infrastructure in China and increased business activities by global technology providers in China. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do. They also have longer operating histories and more experience in attracting and retaining users and managing customers than we do. They may use their experience and resources to compete with us in a variety of ways, including by competing more heavily for users, customers, distributors and networks of third-party websites, investing more heavily in research and development and making acquisitions. If any of our competitors provide comparable or better Chinese language cloud computing and online marketing services, our revenues could decline significantly. Any such decline in revenues could weaken our brand, result in a loss of other customers and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We also face competition from traditional advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, yellow pages, billboards and other forms of outdoor media, television and radio. Most large companies in China allocate, and will likely continue to allocate, most of their marketing budgets to traditional advertising media and only a small portion of their budgets to online marketing. If these companies do not devote a larger portion of their marketing budgets to online marketing services provided by us, or if our existing customers reduce the amount they spend on online marketing, our results of operations and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our business depends on a strong network, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our network, we may lose customers, resulting in a reduction in revenue. We developed our customer base primarily by word-of-mouth and incurred limited brand promotion expenses prior to December 2008. We have committed to brand promotion efforts, but we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts will be successful in further promoting our brand. If we fail to promote and maintain the "Subaye" brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to continue to innovate and provide relevant products and services, we may not be able to generate maintain our customer base such that the customer base is large enough to allow us to remain competitive, resulting in a loss of customers and reduction in revenue. Our success depends on providing products and services that people use for a high-quality cloud computing and online marketing purposes. Our competitors are constantly developing innovations in cloud computing and online marketing as well as enhancing their customers’ online experience. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development to enhance our technology and our existing products and services and introduce additional high quality products and services to attract and retain customers. If we are unable to anticipate customer preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose customers and customers. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations do not respond to the needs of our customers and customers, or are not appropriately timed with market opportunities or are not effectively brought to market. As online services technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer products or services that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar to or better than our services. This may force us to expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. 16 If we fail to keep up with rapid technological changes, our future success may be adversely affected due to a loss of customers and reduced ability to attract new customers. The Internet industry is subject to rapid technological changes. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapidly changing technologies, adapt our services to evolving industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our services. Our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business. New marketing media could also adversely affect us. For example, the number of people accessing the Internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile telephones and hand-held devices, has increased in recent years. If we are slow to develop products and technologies that are more compatible with those devices or non-PC communications devices, we may not be successful in capturing a significant share of this increasingly important market for media and other services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our products, services or infrastructure. If we fail to keep up with rapid technological changes to remain competitive in our rapidly evolving industry, our future success may be adversely affected. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could result in a reduction of income and loss of customers. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. The protection of intellectual property rights in China may not be as effective as those in the U.S. or other countries. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us. Moreover, unauthorized use of our technology could enable our competitors to offer online services that are comparable to or better than ours, which could harm our business and competitive position. From time to time, we may have to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Cloud Computing and online marketing are relatively novel concepts in China and our business strategy may prove to be ineffective, resulting in loss of customers and revenue. If our business fails to retain existing customers or attract new customers for our online marketing services, our business and growth prospects could be seriously harmed. Our cloud computing and online marketing customers will not continue to do business with us if their investment does not increase their employee productivity and generate sales growth. Our customers may discontinue their business with us at any time and for any reason as they are not subject to fixed-term contracts. Failure to retain our existing online marketing customers or attract new customers for our online marketing services could seriously harm our business and growth prospects. Our reliance on third-party distribution agents poses operational risks to our business. Because we primarily rely on distribution agents in providing services through www.subaye.com, our failure to retain key distribution agents or attract additional distribution agents could materially and adversely affect our business. Cloud computing and online marketing are both at early stages of development in China and are not as widely accepted by or available to businesses in China as in the U.S. As a result, we rely heavily on a nationwide distribution network of third-party distributors for our sales to, and collection of payment from our customers. If our distribution agents do not provide quality services to our customers or otherwise breach their contracts with us, we may lose customers and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have long-term agreements with most of our distribution agents, including our key distribution agents, but we cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. Our distribution arrangements, except for those with our key distribution agents, are non-exclusive. Furthermore, some of our distribution agents also contract with our competitors or potential competitors and may not renew their distribution agreements with us. In addition, as new methods for accessing the Internet, including the use of wireless devices, become available, we may need to expand our distribution network. If we fail to retain our key distribution agents or attract additional distribution agents on terms that are commercially reasonable, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 17 Our strategy of acquiring complementary businesses, assets and technologies may fail which could reduce our ability to compete for customers. As part of our business strategy, we have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, selective strategic acquisitions of businesses, assets and technologies that complement our existing business. We may make other acquisitions in the future if suitable opportunities arise. Acquisitions involve uncertainties and risks, including: • potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • failure to achieve the intended objectives, benefits or revenue-enhancing opportunities; • costs and difficulties of integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; and • diversion of resources and management attention. Our failure to address these risks successfully may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any such acquisition may require a significant amount of capital investment, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. In addition, if we use our equity securities to pay for acquisitions, we may dilute the value of your shares. If we borrow funds to finance acquisitions, such debt instruments may contain restrictive covenants that could, among other things, restrict us from distributing dividends. Such acquisitions may also generate significant amortization expenses related to intangible assets. We may not be able to manage our expanding operations effectively which could impede our growth. The Company was organized on January 6, 1997 and we have expanded our operations rapidly. We anticipate significant continued expansion of our business as we address growth in our customer-base, customer-base and market opportunities. To manage the potential growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to improve operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Furthermore, our management will be required to maintain and expand our relationships with other websites, Internet companies and other third parties. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly and annual revenues and costs and expenses as a percentage of our revenues may be significantly different from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause the price of our common stock to fall. Our customer traffic tends to be seasonal. For example, we generally experience less customer traffic during public holidays in China. In addition, business spending in China has historically been cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Our rapid growth has lessened the impact of the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As we continue to grow, we expect that the cyclicality and seasonality in our business may cause our operating results to fluctuate. 18 Our business may be adversely affected by third-party software applications that interfere with our receipt of information from, and provision of information to, our customers, which may impair our customers’ experience, resulting in a loss of customers. Our business may be adversely affected by third-party malicious or unintentional software applications that make changes to our customers’ computers and interfere with our products and services. These software applications may change our customers’ Internet experience by hijacking queries to our websites, altering or replacing our video play results, or otherwise interfering with our ability to connect with our customers. The interference often occurs without disclosure to or consent from customers, resulting in a negative experience that customers may associate with our websites and the Company itself. These software applications may be difficult or impossible to remove or disable, may reinstall themselves and may circumvent other applications’ efforts to block or remove them. The ability to provide a superior customer experience is critical to our success. If our efforts to combat these software applications are unsuccessful, our reputation may be harmed. This could result in a decline in our customer base and, consequently, our revenues. The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China and diminished reliability could result in loss of confidence among our customers which could lead to reduced revenues or loss of customers. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Information Industry of China. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the Chinese government. These international gateways are the only channels through which a domestic customer can connect to the Internet. We cannot assure you that a more sophisticated Internet infrastructure will be developed in China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure. In addition, the Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance and future success depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. We will need to continue to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. As competition in our industry intensifies, it may be more difficult for us to hire, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. If we do not succeed in attracting additional highly skilled personnel or retaining or motivating our existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively. If we are unable to adapt or expand our existing technology infrastructure to accommodate greater traffic or additional customer requirements, we may lose customers. Our www.subaye.com website regularly serves a large number of customers and customers and delivers a large number of daily video views. Our technology infrastructure is highly complex and may not provide satisfactory service in the future, especially as the number of customers using our web-based services increases. We may be required to upgrade our technology infrastructure to keep up with the increasing traffic on our websites, such as increasing the capacity of our hardware servers and the sophistication of our software. If we fail to adapt our technology infrastructure to accommodate greater traffic or customer requirements, our customers may become dissatisfied with our services and switch to our competitors’ websites, which could harm our business. 19 Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Our ability to provide our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Any damage to or failure of our systems could interrupt our service. Service interruptions could reduce our revenues and profits, and damage our brand if our system is perceived to be unreliable. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of terrorist attacks, war, earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, interruptions in access to our websites through the use of “denial of service” or similar attacks, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. Our servers, which are hosted at third-party Internet data centers, are also vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all possible scenarios. The occurrence of a natural disaster or a closure of an Internet data center by a third-party provider without adequate notice could result in lengthy service interruptions. In October 2006, Subaye.com failed to provide Internet video sharing results for approximately four hours as a result of an error in operations. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures on our website, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. The steps we plan to take to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, reduce our operating margin and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of service interruptions. If our software contains bugs, we could lose the confidence of customers, resulting in loss of customers and a reduction of revenue. Our online systems, including our websites, our enterprise video play software and other software applications and products, could contain undetected errors or “bugs” that could adversely affect their performance. We regularly update and enhance our website and our other online systems and introduce new versions of our software products and applications. The occurrence of errors in any of these may cause us to lose market share, damage our reputation and brand name, and materially and adversely affect our business. Concerns about the security of electronic commerce transactions and confidentiality of information on the Internet may reduce use of our network and impede our growth. A significant barrier to electronic commerce and communications over the Internet in general has been a public concern over security and privacy, including the transmission of confidential information. If these concerns are not adequately addressed, they may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. If a well-publicized Internet breach of security were to occur, general Internet usage could decline, which could reduce traffic to our destination websites and impede our growth. We have limited business insurance coverage and potential liabilities could exceed our ability to pay them. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Chinese laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions which could result in significant disruptions to our operations and/or our ability to generate revenues. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our vendors and customers. Subaye is considered a foreign person or foreign enterprise under Chinese law. As a result, we are subject to Chinese law limitations on foreign ownership of Internet and advertising companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. 20 Chinese laws currently provide limited guidance as to whether an Internet video provider that provides video result links to domestic news websites is required to obtain an approval from the State Council News Office. Chinese laws also do not provide clear guidance as to whether an Internet video provider that provides links to online audio/video products is required to obtain an Internet culture permit from the Ministry of Culture or a license for broadcasting audio/video programs from the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television. If the interpretation of existing laws and regulations changes or new regulations comes into effect requiring us to obtain any such licenses, permits or approvals, we cannot assure you that we may successfully obtain them, and we may need to remove links to news and audio/video products until we obtain the requisite licenses, permits and approvals. The Chinese government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future Chinese laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Complexity, uncertainties and changes in Chinese regulation of Internet business and companies could affect our operations, including placing limitations on our ability to own key assets, such as our websites. The Chinese government extensively regulates the Internet industry including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to companies in the Internet industry. These Internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be a violation of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to Chinese government regulation of the Internet industry include the following: • We only have contractual control over our websites. We do not own the websites due to the restriction of foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services in China, including online information services. • There are uncertainties relating to the regulation of the Internet business in China, including evolving licensing practices, which means that permits, licenses or operations at some of our companies may be subject to challenge. This may disrupt our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement, or compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. • Certain Chinese government authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of promulgating new laws and regulations that will regulate Internet activities. The areas of regulation may include online advertising, online news displaying, online audio-video program broadcasting and the provision of culture-related information over the Internet. Other aspects of our online operations may be regulated in the future. If our operations do not comply with these new regulations at the time they become effective, we could be subject to penalties. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Internet businesses in China, including our business. 21 In order to comply with Chinese laws limiting foreign ownership of Internet and advertising businesses, we conduct our ICP (independent content provider) and online advertising businesses through our subsidiary, Guangzhou Subaye Computer Tech Limited. If the Chinese government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our ability to operate could be significantly reduced resulting in loss of customers and revenue. The Chinese government restricts foreign investment in Internet and advertising businesses. Accordingly, we operate our websites and our online advertising business in China through Guangzhou Subaye Computer Tech Limited ”GZ Subaye,” our wholly-owned subsidiary. GZ Subaye holds the licenses and approvals necessary to operate our website and our online advertising business in China. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to enforce these contracts. Although we believe we comply with current Chinese regulations, we cannot assure you that the Chinese government would agree that these operating arrangements comply with Chinese licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the Chinese government determines that we do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, block our website, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. Risks Related to Doing Business in China If the Internet and, in particular, cloud computing and online marketing are not broadly adopted in China, our ability to increase revenue and sustain profitability could be significantly reduced. The use of the Internet as a business platform and marketing channel is at an early stage in China. Internet and broadband penetration rates in China are both relatively low compared to those in most developed countries. Many of our current and potential customers have limited experience with the Internet as a business platform and marketing channel, and have not historically devoted a significant portion of their annual budgets to online services and online marketing and promotions. As a result, they may not consider the Internet effective in promoting their products and services as compared to traditional computer networking systems and print and broadcast media, among others. Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may disrupt our operations and subject us to liability for information linked to our websites, resulting in reduced income. The Chinese government has adopted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the Internet. Under these regulations, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet content that, among other things, violates Chinese laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is reactionary, obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the revocation of licenses to provide Internet content and other licenses and the closure of the concerned websites. In the past, failure to comply with such requirements has resulted in the closure of certain websites. The website operator may also be held liable for such censored information displayed on or linked to the website. In addition, the Ministry of Information Industry has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for content displayed on their websites and the actions of customers and others using their systems, including liability for violations of Chinese laws prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local Internet service provider to block any Internet website at its sole discretion. From time to time, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the dissemination over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The State Secrecy Bureau is also authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking State secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of State secrets in the dissemination of online information. 22 Although we attempt to monitor the content in our video sharing results at www.subaye.com, we are not able to control or restrict the content of other Internet content providers linked to or accessible through our websites, or content generated or placed on www.subaye.com by our customers. To the extent that Chinese regulatory authorities find any content displayed on our websites objectionable, they may require us to limit or eliminate the dissemination of such information on our websites, which may reduce our customer traffic and have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may be subject to penalties for violations of those regulations arising from information displayed on or linked to our websites, including a suspension or shutdown of our online operations. Chinese government authorities may deem certain third-party websites unlawful and could require us to remove links to such websites, which may reduce our customer traffic and reduce revenues. The Internet industry in China, including the operation of online activities, is extensively regulated by the Chinese government. Various Chinese government authorities, such as the State Council, the Ministry of Information Industry, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the State Press and Publication Administration and the Ministry of Public Security are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the Internet and online activities. Substantial uncertainties exist regarding the potential impact of current and future Chinese laws and regulations on Internet video providers. We are not able to control or restrict the operation of third-party websites linked to or accessible through our website. If third-party websites linked to or accessible through our websites operate unlawful activities such as online gambling on their websites, Chinese regulatory authorities may require us to remove the links to such websites or suspend or shut down the operation of such websites. This in turn may reduce our customer traffic and adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be subject to potential liabilities for providing links to third-party websites that operate unlawful activities. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafes could restrict our ability to maintain or increase customer traffic to our website. In April 2001, the Chinese government began tightening its regulation of Internet cafes. In particular, a large number of unlicensed Internet cafes have been closed. In addition, the Chinese government has imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafes. Furthermore, the Chinese government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet cafe chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafes, may slow down the growth of Internet cafes. Recently, the Ministry of Culture, together with other government authorities, issued a joint notice suspending the issuance of new Internet cafe licenses. It is unclear when this suspension will be lifted. So long as Internet cafes are one of the primary venues for our customers to access our website, any reduction in the number, or any slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafes in China could limit our ability to maintain or increase customer traffic to our website. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi (“RMB”) into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our cash receipts are primarily derived from cash transfers from our Chinese subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries and our affiliated entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay cash or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our Common Stock. 23 Recent Chinese regulations relating to acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could limit our Chinese subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or otherwise adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. The Chinese State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or (“SAFE”), issued a public notice in January 2005 concerning foreign exchange regulations on mergers and acquisitions in China. The public notice states that if an offshore company intends to acquire a Chinese company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the relevant foreign exchange authorities. The public notice also states that the approval of the relevant foreign exchange authorities is required for any sale or transfer by the Chinese residents of a Chinese company’s assets or equity interests to foreign entities, such as us, for equity interests or assets of the foreign entities. In April 2005, SAFE issued another public notice clarifying the January notice. In accordance with the April notice, if an acquisition of a Chinese company by an offshore company controlled by Chinese residents had been confirmed by a Foreign Investment Enterprise Certificate prior to the issuance of the January notice, each of the Chinese residents is required to submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch to register his or her respective ownership interests in the offshore company. The SAFE notices do not specify the timeframe during which such registration must be completed. The Chinese resident must also amend such registration form if there is a material event affecting the offshore company, such as, among other things, a change to share capital, a transfer of stock, or if such company is involved in a merger and an acquisition or a spin-off transaction or uses its assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. We have notified our shareholders who are Chinese residents to register with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notices. However, we cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are Chinese residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE notices. The failure or inability of our Chinese resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our Chinese subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE notices will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a Chinese company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE notices. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Fluctuation in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in RMB, while a significant portion of our financial assets are denominated in U.S. dollars. We rely entirely on dividends and other fees paid to us by our subsidiaries and affiliated entity in China. Any significant revaluation of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our stock in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investment or expenditure more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. An appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our RMB denominated financial assets into U.S. Dollars, as the U.S. Dollar is our reporting currency. 24 We may have significant assets located overseas, which could result in stockholders not receiving distributions that they would otherwise be entitled to if we were declared bankrupt or insolvent. We have significant assets located in China. Any assets we have in China may be outside of the jurisdiction of U.S. courts to administer if we are the subject of an insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding. As a result, if we declared bankruptcy or insolvency, our stockholders may not receive the distributions on liquidation that they would otherwise be entitled to if our assets were to be located within the U.S., under U.S. Bankruptcy law. Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. All of our business operations are conducted in China, under the jurisdiction of the government of the PRC. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, and control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. China’s government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, China’s government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operations in China may subject us, or any Chinese subsidiaries we may have, to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. China’s legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new, in particular, the regulatory regime relating to renewable energy projects, and China’s legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. New labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. On January 1, 2008, the PRC government promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the New Labor Contract Law. The New Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly impacts the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires certain terminations to be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce in China, the New Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. 25 Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, payoffs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur from time to time in China. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our reputation or our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unprecedented rapid economic growth in China may increase our costs of doing business in China, and may negatively impact our profit margins and/or profitability. The development of our Internet-based businesses in China will depend, in part, upon the availability of an Internet connection and the quality and usefulness of our Internet applications available to enterprises and individuals, as well as the number of sales persons we employ and the level of sophistication and understanding these salespersons hold in relation to our BCP. Rising wages in China may increase our overall costs in connection with an increasingly significant team of salespeople and third party agents. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of an epidemic outbreak, such as the SARS epidemic in April 2004 or the swine flu pandemic in 2009. Any prolonged recurrence of such adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue business operations. For instance, health or other government regulations adopted in response may require temporary closure of our projects or any offices we may have in China. Such closures would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of SARS, swine flu or any other epidemic. It may be difficult to effect service of process upon us or our directors or executive officers who reside in China, or to enforce against them or us in China any judgments obtained from non-Chinese courts. All but one of our directors and executive officers reside within China. Substantially all of our assets and those of such directors and executive officers are located within the China. China does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan and many other countries. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process upon us or those persons in China, or to enforce against us or them in China, any judgments obtained from non-Chinese courts. In addition, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court of any other jurisdiction in relation to any matter not subject to a binding arbitration provision may be difficult or impossible. If we or certain shareholders who are PRC individuals are found to not be in compliance with the Stock Option Rule promulgated by SAFE, we may be charged certain penalties and fees by the Chinese government. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE promulgated the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in an Overseas-Listed Company’s Employee Stock Holding or Stock Option Plan , or the Stock Option Rules. The Stock Option Rules stipulate that PRC individuals who have been granted stock options and other types of stock-based awards by an overseas listed company are required to obtain approval from their local SAFE branches through an agent of the overseas listed company (generally its PRC subsidiary or a financial institution). 26 The failure by any entities or PRC individuals to complete their SAFE registration pursuant to the requirement of the SAFE or its local branches or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules may subject these entities or PRC individuals to fines and legal sanctions, and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to their shareholders or otherwise materially adversely affect their business. As a company listed on a stock exchange in the United States, we and our PRC directors, management personnel, employees, consultants and employees of our equity investee who have been granted share options and other awards under our equity incentive plan are subject to the Stock Option Rules. Risks Related to Our Stock Being Publicly Traded Our stock price may be volatile. We cannot predict the extent to which a trading market will develop for our common stock or how liquid that market might become. The trading price of our common stock is expected to be highly volatile as well as subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • Quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors. • Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments. • Our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis. • Changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals. • Changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts. • General economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. You may experience substantial dilution if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity and/or convertible securities. We may engage in equity financing in the future in order to raise funds for working capital, financing expansion efforts and/or investing in research and development. Such financing may result in a substantial dilution of your equity stake in our company. FINRA sales practice requirements may also limit a shareholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the “penny stock” rules described above, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. 27 To date, we have not paid any cash dividends and no cash dividends are currently scheduled to be paid in the foreseeable future. We have no scheduled cash dividends and have no formal plans to begin issuing cash dividends in the foreseeable future and we may not have sufficient funds legally available to pay dividends. Even if the funds are legally available for distribution, we may nevertheless decide not to pay any dividends. We presently intend to retain all earnings for our operations. Our common stock is currently traded at low volume, and you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell or liquidate a substantial number of shares at one time. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for its common stock will develop or be sustained. Our common shares are currently traded, but currently with low volume, based on quotations on the NASDAQ Global Stock Market Stock Exchange, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is still relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that trading levels will be sustained. Item 