Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report, including the risk factors set forth below before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. The following is not an exhaustive discussion of all of the risks facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may impair our business operations and results of operations. Our efforts to enhance stockholder value through our strategic options process may not be successful. On March 1, 2010, in an effort to enhance stockholder value, we announced that our Board of Directors had formed a Strategic Options Committee to consider the sale of either MedCath or the sale of our individual hospitals and other assets. Since March 2010, we have announced the completion of sales involving the assets of, or MedCath’s interests in, the following entities: Arizona Heart Hospital, Avera Heart Hospital of South Dakota, Heart Hospital of Austin, TexSAn Heart Hospital, Louisiana Medical Center and Heart Hospital, Hualapai Mountain Medical Center, Harlingen Medical Center and HMC Realty, LLC, MedCath Partners and the minority ownership interest our MedCath Partners division held in Southwest Arizona Heart and Vascular, LLC. We cannot assure you that our continuing efforts to enhance stockholder value through the conduct of our strategic options process will succeed. There will be risks associated any transaction alternative, including whether we will develop acquirers of our individual hospitals, or our ownership in these hospitals, at valuations that we deem reasonable or at any valuation. Moreover, the timing and terms of any transaction will depend on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. A delay in or failure to complete one or more of the remaining asset transactions could have a material effect on our stock price and the amount of any potential distributions to our stockholders. We cannot predict the timing, amount or mechanics of any potential future distributions to our stockholders. Many unknown variables will affect the amount, timing and mechanics of any potential future distributions to stockholders. Factors that could have a material effect on the amount of any potential future distributions include, but are not limited to, decreases in the purchase price third parties are willing to pay for our assets, a failure to sell remaining assets, the amount of asset and corporate wind-down related operating and other expenses, MedCath’s tax treatment, inability to collect amounts owed to MedCath and any required reserves to address potential liabilities, including retained and contingent liabilities, including but not limited to those arising from the sales of our assets of both MedCath or its individual hospitals, and/or other unforeseen events. These and other factors, such as the procedures established under Delaware law for the dissolution of a Delaware corporation, could also delay the timing of any potential distributions. A delay in the sales of our remaining assets is likely to decrease the funds available for distribution to stockholders. Claims, liabilities and expenses from operations (including operating costs such as salaries, directors’ fees, directors and officers’ insurance, federal and state income taxes, payroll and local taxes, legal, investment banking, consulting and accounting fees and miscellaneous office expenses) will continue to be incurred by us as we seek to close sales of our remaining assets and wind-down our operations. In the event the sales of our remaining assets are delayed, we may incur additional claims, and will incur liabilities and expenses from operations that will reduce the net funds ultimately available for distribution to our stockholders. If the sales of our remaining assets are not completed, or they are delayed, there will be fewer funds available for distribution to our stockholders. If sales of our remaining assets are not consummated or they are delayed, we believe we will have limited alternative strategic options available with respect to these assets, and there is a substantial risk that our stockholders will realize materially less value from the proposed liquidation and dissolution of the Company. As of this time, we are not aware of any alternatives that would enable the Company to deliver similar or higher value to our stockholders as compared to the value to be received in connection with already completed or planned sales of our assets. Cash distributions to stockholders could be substantially limited and delayed since, as part of our liquidation and dissolution, the Company is required to make adequate provision to satisfy all of our known and unknown liabilities before authorizing any cash distribution to stockholders. Following (i) if successful, the sale of a substantial portion, but not necessarily all, of our Remaining Assets and (ii) the payment, or establishment of a reserve to pay, the Company’s liabilities (which may be material), including without limitation (a) any liabilities arising out of the ICD Investigation, (b) other currently unknown or unanticipated liabilities, (c) a reserve of such additional amount as the Board of Directors determines to be necessary or appropriate under the DGCL with respect to additional liabilities that may arise or be identified after the Filing, the Company currently anticipates making one or more Additional Liquidating Distributions prior to the Outside Filing Date (as may be extended to the Extended Filing Date) and the Filing. However, the process of accounting for our liabilities (including those that are presently unknown) involve assumptions, estimates and complex valuation. These uncertainties could impede the Board’s ability to make, and diminish the amount available, for distribution to our stockholders. Substantial time may be required for us to determine the extent of our liabilities to known third party creditors and claimants and for us to settle or judicially resolve any claims that are contested. Furthermore, pursuant to the DGCL, we may be subject to claims being commenced against us for liabilities unknown to us after dissolution. Assuming we follow the notice and claims process provided by Sections 280 and 281(a) of the DGCL, a period of time, likely more than nine months but potentially a significantly longer period, must elapse after the Filing and commencement of the wind down process before we may make any Additional Liquidating Distributions, if any, to allow for the notice and claims process. Such distributions may be made in more than one installment over an extended period of time. If our contingent reserves are insufficient to satisfy our liabilities, creditors could assert claims against us seeking to prevent distributions or against our stockholders to the extent of distributions received. If a court holds at any time that we have failed to make adequate provision for our expenses and liabilities or if the amount ultimately required to be paid in respect of such liabilities exceeds the amount available from the contingency reserve, our creditors could seek an injunction against the making of distributions on the grounds that the amounts to be distributed are needed to provide for the payment of our expenses and liabilities. Any such action could delay or substantially diminish the amount of any cash distributions to stockholders. If we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities, creditors could assert claims against each stockholder receiving a distribution for the payment of such stockholder’s pro rata share of any shortfall, up to the amounts previously received by the stockholder in distributions from us. After the Filing, Stockholders may not be able to recognize a loss for federal income tax purposes until they receive a final distribution from us, which may possibly be a number of years after our Dissolution. In a complete liquidation if a stockholder sells his shares of stock in the Company after receiving some liquidating distributions, gain or loss will be recognized on the shares sold at the time of the sale. However, after the Filing, a sale of Company shares will not be possible, and a stockholder with a loss will only be able to recognize the loss when the stockholder has received the final liquidating distribution from us. Such final liquidating distribution may possibly be a number of years after our Dissolution. 16 Table of Contents If the Company provides seller financing in connection with the sale of any of its assets, the purchaser of any such assets may not succeed in refinancing or repaying the Company. The Company provided seller financing to the purchaser of LMCHH. The purchaser of LMCHH, and the purchaser of any remaining assets for which the Company provides seller financing, may not succeed in refinancing or repaying the Company, or may not do so on a timely basis, in which event the amounts available for distribution to our stockholders may be materially reduced or delayed. On September 30, 2011, the Company entered into a definitive Debt and Equity Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to sell its interest in LMCHH to Cardiovascular Care Group (“CCG”). MedCath financed CCG’s purchase with a secured promissory note that was initially scheduled to mature 60 days after closing, subject to extension at CCG’s election for up to 60 additional days. CCG has notified MedCath that CCG has elected to extend the maturity date of this promissory note from November 30, 2011 to December 31, 2011. In accordance with the terms of the purchase agreement, CCG retains the right to extend the maturity of this promissory note for another 30 days beyond December 31, 2011. There are no assurances that CCG will pay the amount due under such promissory note. If CCG fails to make such payment the amounts available for distribution to our stockholders may be materially reduced or delayed. Future cash distributions to stockholders could be substantially reduced and delayed as part of our liquidation and dissolution due to the pending ICD Investigation. On March 12, 2010, the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) issued a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) to one of the Company’s hospitals regarding implantable cardioverter defibrillators (“ICD”) implantations (the “ICD Investigation”). The CID was issued in connection with an ongoing, national investigation relating to ICDs and Medicare coverage requirements for these devices. The CID requested certain documents and patient medical records regarding the implantation of ICDs for the period 2002 to the present. The Company has provided materials responsive to the CID. On September 17, 2010, consistent with letters received by other hospitals and hospital systems, DOJ sent a letter notifying the Company of DOJ’s investigation of eight Company hospitals regarding ICD implantations. In its letter, DOJ stated that its review was preliminary and its data suggests that Company hospitals may have submitted claims for ICDs and related services that were inconsistent with Medicare policy. Based upon the Company’s legal advisors’ discussions and meetings with DOJ, the primary focus of the investigations involves ICDs implanted since October 1, 2003 within prohibited timeframes (i.e., timeframe violations). A “timeframe violation” involves an ICD implanted for “primary prevention” (i.e., prevention of sudden cardiac death in patients without a history of induced or spontaneous arrhythmias) within 30 days of a myocardial infarction, or within 90 days of a coronary artery bypass graft or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. The timeframes do not apply to ICDs implanted for “secondary prevention” (i.e., prevention of sudden cardiac death in patients who have survived a prior cardiac arrest or sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia). On November 19, 2010, DOJ provided the Company a spreadsheet detailing instances (based upon DOJ’s data) in which an ICD was implanted at the eight Company hospitals in potential violation of the applicable timeframes. The data provided by DOJ is “raw,” and the Company understands that, as of this date, such data had not been analyzed by DOJ. Additionally, DOJ confirmed that some of the ICDs identified in its data as alleged timeframe violations were in fact appropriately implanted and billed to Medicare, including those implanted for secondary prevention. On February 17, 2011, legal counsel for the Company met with representatives of DOJ to discuss the agency’s review of the patient medical records provided in response to the CID. In addition to discussing DOJ’s review process, DOJ reconfirmed that certain ICD implantations were not being examined by the agency. As noted above, these include implantations prior to October 1, 2003 and implantations for secondary (rather than primary) prevention. With respect to primary prevention implantations, the Company discussed clinical comments supporting the implantations and agreed to additional meetings and presentations regarding those implantations for other Company hospitals. During the period March 2011 through July 2011, legal counsel for the Company has met on multiple occasions with representatives of DOJ to discuss the investigation and present preliminary findings regarding an internal review of a Company hospital other. These preliminary findings were submitted to DOJ and continue to be discussed by the parties. The Company intends to similarly present and submit findings for its other hospitals under investigation. As discussed above, the Company has complied with all requests from DOJ for information, is actively engaged in discussions with DOJ regarding the issues involved in the ICD Investigation, and continues the ICD implantations. Pursuant to DOJ’s request, the Company originally entered into a tolling agreement that tolled the statute of limitations for allegations related to ICDs until October 2011. The Company received a request from the DOJ to extend the tolling agreement for one additional year until October 31, 2012. The Company has agreed to the extension and has entered into a one year tolling agreement extension with the DOJ until October 31, 2012. To date, DOJ has not asserted any claims against the Company and the Company expects to continue to have input into the investigation. Because the investigation is in its early stages, however, the Company is unable to evaluate the outcome of the investigations and is unable to reasonably estimate the amounts to be paid, if any, upon the resolution of the investigations. However, the Company understands that this investigation is being conducted under the False Claims Act which could expose the Company to treble damages should the DOJ’s preliminary analysis of the Company’s hospitals’ ICD claims be substantiated. The Company’s total ICD net revenue is a material 17 Table of Contents component of total net patient revenue and the results of this investigation could have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and a material effect on the amount the Company is able to distribute to its stockholders in connection with the proposed liquidation and dissolution. If we do not meet the requirements for continued listing on The Nasdaq Stock Market, our common stock could be delisted which would adversely affect the ability of our stockholders to sell shares of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market. The Nasdaq Stock Market imposes continued listing requirements that companies must meet to remain listed on that market. These requirements include, among other things, minimum levels of assets and revenues. The Nasdaq Stock Market also considers factors like the number of employees of a company and a company’s ongoing revenue generating operations and plans. If we do not meet the requirements for continued listing on The Nasdaq Stock Market, our common stock could be delisted. Such a delisting could occur before the Filing. The delisting of our common stock would have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock, such as the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares of our common stock, and its trading price. Our stockholders will not be able to buy or sell shares of our common stock after we close our stock transfer books on the date on which we make the Filing. We currently intend to close our stock transfer books and discontinue recording transfers of our common stock on the date on which we make the Filing with the Delaware Secretary of State (the “Dissolution Effective Date”). After we close our stock transfer books, we will not record any further transfers of our common stock on our books except by will, intestate succession or operation of law. Therefore, shares of our common stock will not be voluntarily transferable after the Dissolution Effective Date. All distributions after the Dissolution Effective Date will be made to our stockholders pro rata according to their respective holdings of common stock as of the Dissolution Effective Date. We intend to provide our stockholders notice of the date we intend to make the Filing with the Delaware Secretary of State by public announcement and by filing a current report on Form 8-K, no less than 20 calendar days’ prior to the Filing. The directors and officers of the Company will continue to receive benefits from the Company following the sale of all or substantially all of the remaining assets, the Complete Liquidation and the Dissolution. Following the Filing, we will continue to indemnify each of our current and former directors and officers to the extent permitted under the DGCL and the Company’s certificate of incorporation, bylaws and agreements as in effect at the time of the Filing. In addition, we intend to maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance coverage throughout the wind down period and through the lapse of the statute of limitations period on potential claims. We depend on key personnel including our senior management who are important to the success of the liquidation of our business. We have implemented stay-on incentive programs and have entered into long-term contractual employment contracts for certain of our key employees. However, the success of our Plan of Dissolution depends to a significant extent on the services of members of our senior management team and other key employees. The loss of one or more of these individuals or other key personnel could have a material effect on our liquidation process and our ability to report the changes in our consolidated net assets in liquidation. We will continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome. In order to curtail expenses, we currently intend, after the Filing, to seek relief from the SEC from the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. However, the SEC may not grant any such relief, in which case we would be required to continue to bear the expense of being a public reporting company. If we are granted relief of our SEC reporting requirement, we plan to continue to provide regular updates to our stockholders in some manner, such as via our website. Despite the Company’s intention to completely liquidate, there can be no assurance that its efforts to do so will be successful. The Company intends to complete the complete liquidation and dissolution of the Company in a manner that will qualify as a “complete liquidation” within the meaning of Section 346(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, but there can be no assurance that its efforts to do so will be successful. Under Delaware law, the Board of Directors does have the authority to abandon the Plan of Dissolution prior to the Filing without further stockholder action, if the Board of Directors determines that liquidation and dissolution are not in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders However, such action by the Board of Directors is not contemplated and is very unlikely. If the Company does not completely liquidate within the meaning of Section 346(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, then all or a portion of the amounts distributed could be treated as dividend distributions instead of distributions in complete liquidation. We may have fiduciary duties to our partners that may prevent us from acting solely in our best interests. We hold our ownership interests in hospitals and other healthcare businesses through ventures organized as limited liability companies or limited partnerships. As general partner, manager or owner of the majority interest in these entities, we may have special legal responsibilities, known as fiduciary duties, to our partners who own an interest in a particular entity. Our fiduciary duties include not only a duty of care and a duty of full disclosure but also a duty to act in good faith at all times as manager or general partner of the limited liability company or limited partnership. This duty of good faith includes an obligation to act in the best interest of each business, without being influenced by any conflict of interest we may have as a result of our own business interests to the extent they might conflict. We also have a duty to operate our business for the benefit of our stockholders. As a result, we may encounter conflicts between our fiduciary duties to our partners in our hospitals and other healthcare businesses, and our responsibility to our stockholders. For example, we have entered into management agreements to provide management services to our hospitals in exchange for a fee. Disputes may arise with our 18 Table of Contents partners as to the nature of the services to be provided or the amount of the fee to be paid. In these cases, as manager or general partner we may be obligated to exercise reasonable, good faith judgment to resolve the disputes and may not be free to act solely in our own best interests or the interests of our stockholders. We cannot assure you that any dispute between us and our partners with respect to a particular business decision or regarding the interpretation of the provisions of the hospital operating agreement will be resolved or that, as a result of our fiduciary duties, any dispute resolution will be on terms favorable or satisfactory to us. Material decisions regarding the operations or sale of our facilities require consent of our physician and community hospital partners, and limit our ability to take actions that we believe are in our best interest. The physician and community hospital partners in our healthcare businesses participate in material strategic and operating decisions we make for these facilities, including those relating to the disposition of assets or the hospital. They may do so through their representatives on the governing board of the MedCath affiliate that owns the facility or a requirement in the governing documents that we obtain the consent of their representatives before taking specified material actions, such as a sale of a hospital. We generally must obtain the consent of our physician and other hospital partners or their representatives before making any material amendments to the operating or partnership agreement for the venture or admitting additional members or partners. These rights to approve material decisions could in the future limit our ability to take actions that we believe are in our best interest and the best interest of the venture. Disputes may arise that might result in significant litigation and settlement costs or might damage or reduce the purchase price from the sale of a remaining asset. We may not be able to resolve any dispute regarding material decisions with our physician or other hospital partners favorably, or at all. Unfavorable or unexpected results at Bakersfield Heart Hospital could significantly impact our consolidated operating results and the value received upon a disposition. Any material change in the financial or operating results of our Bakersfield Heart Hospital or the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in the geographic region of Bakersfield Heart Hospital could adversely affect our operating results, the purchase price a third party would be willing to pay for our interest in Bakersfield Heart Hospital and the amount available for distribution to our stockholders. In particular, if economic conditions deteriorate in the Bakersfield Heart Hospital market, we may experience a shift in payor mix arising from patients’ loss of or changes in employer-provided health insurance resulting in higher co-payments and deductibles or an increased number of uninsured patients. If the anti-kickback, physician self-referral or other fraud and abuse laws are modified, interpreted differently or if other regulatory restrictions become effective, we could incur significant civil or criminal penalties and loss of reimbursement or be required to revise or restructure aspects of our business arrangements. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federal healthcare program. The anti-kickback statute also prohibits any form of remuneration in return for purchasing, leasing or ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchasing, leasing or ordering of items or services payable by these programs. The anti-kickback statute is very broad in scope and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law, regulations or advisory opinions. Violations of the anti-kickback statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including criminal fines of up to $25,000 for each violation or imprisonment and civil penalties of up to $50,000 for each violation, plus three times the amount claimed and exclusion from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare reimbursement programs. Any exclusion of our hospitals from these programs would result in significant reductions in revenue and would have a material effect on our business. The requirements of the physician self-referral statute, or Stark Law, are very complex and while federal regulations have been issued to implement all of its provisions, proper interpretation and application of the statute remains challenging. The Stark Law prohibits a physician who has a “financial relationship” with an entity from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to that entity for certain “designated health services.” A “financial relationship” includes a direct or indirect ownership or investment interest in the entity, and a compensation arrangement between the physician and the entity. Designated health services include some radiology services and all inpatient and outpatient hospital services. There are various ownership and compensation arrangement exceptions to this self-referral prohibition. Our hospitals rely upon the whole hospital exception to allow referrals from physician investors. Under this ownership exception, physicians may make referrals to a hospital in which he or she has an ownership interest if (1) the physician is authorized to perform services at the hospital and (2) the ownership interest is in the entire hospital, as opposed to a department or a subdivision of the hospital. Another exception for ownership of publicly traded securities permits physicians who own shares of our common stock to make referrals to our hospitals, provided our stockholders’ equity exceeded $75.0 million at the end of our most recent fiscal year or on average during the three previous fiscal years. This exception applies if, prior to the time the physician makes a referral for a designated health service to a hospital, the physician acquired the securities on terms generally available to the public and the securities are traded on one of the major exchanges. In July 2007 as part of proposed revisions to the Medicare physician fee scheduled for fiscal year 2008, CMS proposed certain additional changes to the Stark Law. In particular, the proposed rule would revise the Stark Law exception for space and equipment rentals. In instances 19 Table of Contents where a physician leases space or equipment to an entity who accepts patients referred by that physician, the CMS proposal would no longer allow unit-of-service or “per click” payments for such leases. Additionally, the proposed rule would no longer treat “under arrangements” between hospitals and physician-owned entities as compensation instead of ownership relationships. Specifically, the proposal would revise the definition of “entity” under the Stark Law to include not only the entity billing for the service but also the entity that has performed the designated health service CMS finalized these proposed changes to the Stark Law in the 2009 IPPS final rule published on August 19, 2008. These changes were effective October 1, 2009. Specifically, the 2009 IPPS final rule limited the ability of hospitals to enter into under arrangements with physicians and physician-owned entities and thus, physician-owned joint venture entities deemed to be “performing Designated Health Services (DHS)” were required to comply with one of the more limited Stark Law “ownership” exceptions, rather than the previously acceptable Stark Law “compensation” exceptions. In addition, the 2009 IPPS final rule finalized the prohibition on per unit compensation in space and equipment lease transactions. We restructured certain space and equipment lease transactions with physicians that include per unit or per use compensation effective October 1, 2009 as well certain arrangements with community hospitals. While we believe that such restructured arrangements comply with applicable law, we cannot be assured, however, that government officials will agree with our interpretation of applicable law. The Health Care Reform Laws also made changes to the Stark Law, effectively preventing new physician-owned hospitals after March 23, 2010, and limiting the capacity and amount of physician ownership in existing physician-owned hospitals. As revised, the Stark law prohibits physicians from referring Medicare patients to a hospital in which they have an ownership or investment interest unless the hospital has physician ownership and a Medicare provider agreement as of March 23, 2010 (or, for those hospitals under development, as of December 31, 2010). A physician-owned hospital that meets these requirements will still be subject to restrictions that limit the hospital’s aggregate physician ownership and, with certain narrow exceptions for high Medicaid hospitals, prohibit expansion of the number of operating rooms, procedure rooms or beds. The legislation also subjects a physician-owned hospital to reporting requirements and extensive disclosure requirements on the hospital’s website and in any public advertisements. Possible further amendments to the Stark Law, including any modification or revocation of the whole hospital exception upon which we rely in maintaining or establishing many of our relationships with physicians, could require us to change or adversely impact our relationships with physicians to own and operate a facility. There also can be no assurance the CMS will not promulgate additional regulations under the Stark Law that may change or adversely impact our arrangements with referring physicians. Reductions or changes in reimbursement from government or third-party payors could adversely impact our operating results. Historically, Congress and some state legislatures have, from time to time, proposed significant changes in the healthcare system, including the Health Care Reform Laws. Many of these changes have resulted in limitations on, and in some cases, significant reductions in the levels of, payments to healthcare providers for services under many government reimbursement programs. In addition, many payors, including Medicare and other government payors, are increasingly developing payment policies that result in more procedures being performed on an outpatient basis rather than on an inpatient basis. Such policies will result in decreased revenues for our hospitals, since outpatient procedures are generally reimbursed at a lower rate than inpatient procedures. Recent budget proposals, if enacted in their current form, would freeze and/or reduce reimbursement for inpatient and outpatient hospital services. The Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system is evaluated on an annual basis. On August 22, 2007, CMS issued its final inpatient hospital prospective payment system rule for fiscal year 2008, which began October 1, 2007. The final rule continues major DRG reforms designed to improve the accuracy of hospital payments. As introduced in the fiscal year 2007 final rule, CMS will continue to use hospital costs rather than charges to set payment rates. For fiscal year 2008, hospitals will be paid based upon a blend of 1/3 charge-based weights and 2/3 hospital cost-based weights for DRGs. Additionally, CMS adopted its proposal to restructure the current 538 DRGs to 745 MS-DRGs (severity-adjusted DRGs) to better recognize severity of patient illness. These MS-DRGs were phased in over a two-year period. Effective fiscal year 2009, CMS has identified eight conditions that will not be paid at a higher rate unless they were present on admission, including three serious preventable events deemed “never events.” CMS published the inpatient prospective payment system rule for 2009 on August 19, 2008. Due to the late enactment of the Medicare Improvements for Patient and Providers Act (“MIPPA”), CMS did not publish the final wage indices and payment rates for the 2009 IPPS final rule until October 2008. CMS issued the IPPS rule for 2010 on July 31, 2009. The Final IPPS rule for 2010 provides acute care hospitals with an inflation update of 2.1 percent in their 2010 payment rates. The Final IPPS rule also adds four new measures for which hospitals must submit data under the RHQDAPU program to receive the full market basket update. CMS published an amended IPPS for 2010 on May 21, 2010 which included a 0.25% market basket reduction and a related reduction to the outlier threshold. The market basket adjustment applies to discharges on or after April 1, 2010 and before October 1, 2010. CMS published the IPPS for 2011 on July 30, 2010, which includes the following payment and policy changes effective for discharges on or after October 1, 2010, the beginning of the Company’s fiscal 2011: a net inflation update of 2.35%; a net increase of 1.25% for MS-DRG capital payments; an additional reduction of 2.9% to the operating and capital rate updates to recoup 50% of the estimated overpayments in 2008 and 2009 due to hospital coding and documentation processes in connection with the transition to MS-DRGs; a decrease in the cost outlier threshold from $23,135 to $23,075; and the addition of 12 new quality measures to the RHQDAPU program set and the retirement of one measure (10 of the new measures will be considered in determining a hospital’s 2012 update; the remaining two measures to be reported in 2011 will be considered in a hospital’s 2013 update). On August 1, 2011, CMS published an updated IPSS for 2012 (the “2012 Final Rule”). The 2012 Final Rule includes the following payment and policy changes: • A market basket increase of 3.0% for Medicare severity-adjusted diagnosis-related group (“MS-DRG”) operating payments for hospitals reporting specified quality measure data (hospitals that do not report specified quality measure data will receive an increase of 1.0%); CMS also made certain adjustments to the estimated 3.0% market basket increase that will result in a net market basket update of 1.0%, including the following adjustments to the market basket index: • Market basket index and productivity reductions required by the Affordable Care Act of 0.10% and 1.0%, respectively; • a reduction of 2.0% to permanently remove approximately one half of the estimated 3.9% documentation and coding adjustment resulting from the conversion to MS-DRGs; and • an increase of 1.1% to prospectively correct an error in the standardized rate related to the rural floor budget neutrality adjustment that occurred in prior years; • A 0.34% net increase in the capital federal MS-DRG rate; and • A decrease in the cost outlier threshold from $23,075 to $22,385. During the 2011 fiscal period and the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, we derived 55%, 57% and 53%, respectively, of our net revenue from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Changes in laws or regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs or changes in the manner in which government agencies interpret them could materially and adversely affect our operating results or financial position. 20 Table of Contents Our relationships with third-party payors are generally governed by negotiated agreements or out of network arrangements. These agreements set forth the amounts we are entitled to receive for our services. Third-party payors have undertaken cost-containment initiatives during the past several years, including different payment methods, monitoring healthcare expenditures and anti-fraud initiatives, that have made these relationships more difficult to establish and less profitable to maintain. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate if we are unable to establish favorable agreements with third-party payors or satisfactory out of network arrangements. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and government regulations applicable to us, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. We are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations relate to, among other things: • licensure, certification and accreditation, • billing, coverage and reimbursement for supplies and services, • relationships with physicians and other referral sources, • adequacy and quality of medical care, • quality of medical equipment and services, • qualifications of medical and support personnel, • confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records, • the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions, • building codes, • environmental protection, • clinical research, • operating policies and procedures, and • addition of facilities and services. Many of these laws and regulations are expansive, and we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of them. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs, operating procedures, and contractual arrangements. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including: • criminal penalties, • civil penalties, including monetary penalties and the loss of our licenses to operate one or more of our facilities, and • exclusion of one or more of our facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Current or future legislative initiatives, government regulations or other government actions may have a material effect on us. 21 Table of Contents Companies within the healthcare industry continue to be the subject of federal and state investigations. Both federal and state government agencies as well as private payors have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare organizations including hospital companies. Like others in the healthcare industry, we receive requests for information from these governmental agencies in connection with their regulatory or investigative authority which, if determined adversely to us, could have a material effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. In addition, the Office of Inspector General and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, undertaken national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Moreover, healthcare providers are subject to civil and criminal false claims laws, including the federal False Claims Act, which allows private parties to bring what are called whistleblower lawsuits against private companies doing business with or receiving reimbursement under government programs. These are sometimes referred to as “qui tam” lawsuits. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware or which cannot be disclosed until the court lifts the seal from the case. Defendants determined to be liable under the False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Typically, each fraudulent bill submitted by a provider is considered a separate false claim, and thus the penalties under a false claim case may be substantial. Liability arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to a federal healthcare program. In some cases, whistleblowers or the federal government have taken the position that providers who allegedly have violated other statutes, such as the anti-kickback statute or the Stark Law, have thereby submitted false claims under the False Claims Act. Thus, it is possible that we have liability exposure under the False Claims Act. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. Publicity associated with the substantial amounts paid by other healthcare providers to settle these lawsuits may encourage current and former employees of ours and other healthcare providers to seek to bring more whistleblower lawsuits. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. Any such investigations of us, our executives or managers could result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse publicity. In October 2007, we reached an agreement with the DOJ and the United States Attorneys’ Office in Phoenix, Arizona regarding clinical trials at the Arizona Heart Hospital, one of the eight hospitals in which we owned an interest. The settlement concerns Medicare claims submitted between June 1998 and October 2002 for physician services involving the implantation of certain endoluminal graft devices (utilized to treat aneurysms) that had not received final marketing approval from the FDA, and allegedly were either implanted without an approved investigational device exception (“IDE”) or were implanted outside of the approved IDE protocol. The DOJ allegations did not involve patient care and related solely to whether the procedures were properly reimbursable by Medicare. The parties reached a settlement of the allegations to avoid the delay, uncertainty, inconvenience, and expense of protracted litigation. Further, the hospital denied engagement in any wrongdoing or illegal conduct, and the settlement agreement does not contain any admission of liability. As disclosed in previous filings, the hospital agreed to pay approximately $5.8 million to settle and obtain a release from any civil or administrative monetary claims related to the DOJ’s investigation. Additionally, the hospital entered into corporate integrity agreement (“CIA”) with the OIG under which the hospital continued to maintain its existing corporate compliance program and which related to clinical trials conducted at the hospital. The $5.8 million was paid to the United States in November 2007 and in June 2011, the OIG issued its letter terminating the CIA. During fiscal years 2008 and 2007 we refunded certain reimbursements to CMS related to carotid artery stent procedures performed during prior fiscal years at two of the Company’s consolidated subsidiary hospitals. The DOJ initiated an investigation related to our return of these reimbursements. As a result of the DOJ’s investigation, the Company began negotiating settlement agreements during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 with the DOJ whereby we are expected to pay approximately $0.8 million to settle and obtain releases from any federal civil false claims liability related to the DOJ’s investigation. The DOJ allegations do not involve patient care, and relate solely to whether the procedures were properly reimbursable by Medicare. The settlement does not include any finding of wrong-doing or any admission of liability. As of September 30, 2010, both settlement agreements had been executed and we had paid the United States $0.8 million related to this matter. In June 2011, we reached agreement with the United States Attorneys’ Office in Phoenix regarding an excluded individual at one of the Company’s former hospitals. As part of the settlement agreement, the Company denied engagement in any wrongdoing or illegal conduct and the settlement agreement does not contain any admission of liability. On June 27, 2011, the Company paid approximately $225,000 to settle the matter. See also the discussion above regarding the risk that future cash distributions to stockholders could be substantially reduced and delayed as part of our liquidation and dissolution due to the pending ICD investigation. Future audits by Recovery Audit Contractors (“RACs”) could have a material effect on our reported financial results. In 2005, the CMS began using RACs to detect Medicare overpayments not identified through existing claims review mechanisms. The RAC program relies on private auditing firms to examine Medicare claims filed by healthcare providers and fees are paid to the RACs on a contingency basis. RACs perform post-discharge audits of medical records to identify Medicare overpayments resulting from incorrect payment amounts, non-covered services, incorrectly coded services, and duplicate services. The CMS has given RACs the authority to look back at claims up to three years old, provided that the claim was paid on or after October 1, 2007. Claims identified as overpayments will be subject to the Medicare appeals process. The Health Care Reform Laws expand the RAC program’s scope to include Medicaid claims by requiring all states to enter into contracts with RACs by December 31, 2010. 22 Table of Contents Even though we believe the claims for reimbursement submitted to the Medicare and Medicaid program by our facilities have been accurate, we are unable to reasonably estimate what the potential result of future RAC audits or other reimbursement matters could be. If government laws or regulations change or the enforcement or interpretation of them change, we may be obligated to purchase some or all of the ownership interests of the physicians associated with us. Changes in government regulation or changes in the enforcement or interpretation of existing laws or regulations could obligate us to purchase at the then fair market value some or all of the ownership interests of the physicians who have invested in our Bakersfield Heart Hospital. Regulatory changes that could create this obligation include changes that: • make illegal the referral of Medicare or other patients to our hospitals and other healthcare businesses by physicians affiliated with us, • create the substantial likelihood that cash distributions from the hospitals and other healthcare businesses to our physician partners will be illegal, or • make illegal the ownership by our physician partners of their interests in the hospitals and other healthcare businesses. Growth of self-pay patients and a deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. We have experienced growth in our self-pay patients, which includes situations in which each patient is responsible for the entire bill, as well as cases where deductibles are due from insured patients after insurance pays. We may have greater amounts of uninsured receivables in the future and if the collectability of those uninsured receivables deteriorates, increases in our allowance for doubtful accounts may be required, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Our hospitals and other facilities face competition for patients from other healthcare companies. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. Our remaining hospital faces competition for patients from other providers in its markets where we compete for market share of cardiovascular and other healthcare procedures that are the focus of our facilities with two to three providers. Some of these providers are part of large for-profit or not-for-profit hospital systems with greater financial resources than we have available to us and have been operating in the markets they serve for many years. Some of the hospitals that we compete against in certain of our markets and elsewhere have attempted to use their market position and managed care networks to influence physicians not to enter into or to abandon joint ventures that own facilities such as ours by, for example, revoking the admission privileges of our physician partners at the competing hospital. These practices of “economic credentialing” appear to be on the increase. Although these practices have not been successful to date in causing us to lose existing investors, the future loss of a significant number of our physician partners in one or more of our existing ventures could have a material effect on our business and operating results. We depend on our relationships with the physicians who use our facilities. The business of Bakersfield Heart Hospital depends upon the efforts and success of the physicians who provide healthcare services at that facility and the strength of our relationships with these physicians. Each member of the medical staffs at our hospital may also serve on the medical staffs of, and practice at, hospitals not owned by us. Such physicians may also collaborate with other hospitals in our remaining markets, which may affect the revenues and financial performance of our hospitals. The business at the Bakersfield Heart Hospital could be adversely affected if a significant number of key physicians or a group of physicians: • terminated their relationship with, or reduced their use of, that hospital, • failed to maintain the quality of care provided or to otherwise adhere to the legal professional standards or the legal requirements to obtain privileges at our hospitals or other facilities, • suffered any damage to their reputation, • exited the market entirely, • experienced financial issues within their medical practice or other major changes in its composition or leadership, or • align with another healthcare provider resulting in significant reduction in use of our facilities. 23 Table of Contents Historically, the medical staff at each of our hospitals ranged from approximately 100 to 400 physicians depending upon the size of the hospital and the number of practicing physicians in the market. If we fail to maintain our relationships with the physicians in this group at a particular hospital, many of whom are investors in our hospitals, the revenues of that hospital would be reduced. None of the physicians practicing at our hospitals has a legal commitment, or any other obligation or arrangement that requires the physician to refer patients to any of our hospitals or other facilities. From time to time physicians who are leaders of their medical groups and who use our hospital may retire or otherwise cease practicing medicine or using our facility for a variety of reasons. Those medical groups may not replace those physician leaders or may replace them with physicians who choose not to use our hospitals. Losing the utilization of our hospital by those physicians and other physicians in their medical groups may result in material decreases in our revenue and financial performance. We rely heavily on our information systems and if our access to this technology is impaired or interrupted, or if such technology does not perform as warranted by the vendor, our business could be harmed and we may not comply with applicable laws and regulations or meet our obligations to the purchasers of our hospitals. Increasingly, our business depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain in compliance with various regulations, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems, which may require the acquisition of equipment and third-party software. Our inability to implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to operate effectively, or any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities, for any reason including if such systems, or systems acquired in the future, or the vendors that supply or service them, do not perform appropriately, could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. In connection with our liquidation and dissolution we have subcontracted material portions of our information services and systems to third parties. If those third parties fail to fulfill all of their obligations to us, we in turn may be in default of material transition service obligations we have undertaken to the purchasers of our hospitals. Such a default could have a material adverse effect upon the Company and the amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Uninsured risks from legal actions related to professional liability could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. In recent years, physicians, hospitals, diagnostic centers and other healthcare providers have become subject, in the normal course of business, to an increasing number of legal actions alleging negligence in performing services, negligence in allowing unqualified physicians to perform services or other legal theories as a basis for liability. Many of these actions involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. We may be subject to such legal actions even though a particular physician at one of our hospitals or other facilities is not our employee and the governing documents for the medical staffs of each of our hospitals require physicians who provide services, or conduct procedures, at our hospitals to meet all licensing and specialty credentialing requirements and to maintain their own professional liability insurance. We have established a reserve for malpractice claims based on actuarial estimates using our historical experience with malpractice claims and assumptions about future events. Due to the considerable variability that is inherent in such estimates, including such factors as changes in medical costs and changes in actual experience, there is a reasonable possibility that the recorded estimates will change by a material amount in the near term. Also, there can be no assurance that the ultimate liability we experience under our self-insured retention for medical malpractice claims will not exceed our estimates. It is also possible that such claims could exceed the scope of coverage, or that coverage could be denied. Our results of operations may be adversely affected from time to time by changes in treatment practice and new medical technologies. One major element of our business model is to focus on the treatment of patients suffering from cardiovascular disease. Our commitment and that of our physician partners to treating cardiovascular disease often requires us to purchase newly approved pharmaceuticals and devices that have been developed by pharmaceutical and device manufacturers to treat cardiovascular disease. At times, these new technologies receive required regulatory approval and become widely available to the healthcare market prior to becoming eligible for reimbursement by government and other payors. In addition, the clinical application of existing technologies may expand, resulting in their increased utilization. We cannot predict when new technologies will be available to the marketplace, the rate of acceptance of the new technologies by physicians who practice at our facilities, and when or if, government and third-party payors will provide adequate reimbursement to compensate us for all or some of the additional cost required to purchase new technologies. As such, our results of operations may be adversely affected from time to time by the additional, unreimbursed cost of these new technologies. In addition, advances in alternative cardiovascular treatments or in cardiovascular disease prevention techniques could reduce demand or eliminate the need for some of the services provided at our facilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, certain technologies may require significant capital investments or render existing capital obsolete which may adversely impact our cash flows or operations. 24 Table of Contents California state law could have a material adverse impact on our financial results or cause significant changes to our existing approach to control of patient medical information. Effective January 1, 2009, California licensed general acute hospitals are subject to increased administrative penalties associated with survey deficiencies impacting the health or safety of a patient, the unlawful or unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of a patient’s medical information and are required to screen specific patients for certain hospital-related infections and must maintain an infection control policy. Deficiencies constituting immediate jeopardy to the health or safety of a patient are subject to graduated penalties of up to a maximum $100,000 per violation (up from a maximum of $25,000 per violation). Deficiencies not constituting immediate jeopardy to the health or safety of a patient are subject to penalties up to a maximum of $25,000 per violation (up from a maximum of $17,500 per violation). Penalties for violation of the unlawful or unauthorized access are up to $25,000 per patient and a maximum of $17,500 for each subsequent access, use or disclosure of the patient’s medical information. We believe we are in compliance with this new California provisions, but there can be no assurance that applicable regulatory agencies or individuals may challenge that assertion. On January 8, 2009, the California Supreme Court ruled in Prospect Medical Group, Inc., et al. v. Northridge Emergency Medical Group, et al. (2009) 45 Cal. 4th 497, that under California’s Knox-Keene Healthcare Service Plan act of 1975, healthcare providers may not bill patients for covered emergency out patient services for which health plans or capitated payors are invoiced by the provider but fail to pay the provider. The California Supreme Court held that the only recourse for healthcare providers is to pursue the payors directly. The Prospect decision does not apply to amounts that the health plan or capitated payor is not obligated to pay under the terms of the insured’s policy or plan or amounts the plan participant is obligated to pay under the terms of the insured’s policy. Although the Prospect decision only considered emergency providers and referred to HMOs and capitated payors, future court decisions on how the so-called “balance billing” statute is interpreted does pose a risk to healthcare providers that perform emergency or other out-patient services in the state of California. A purported class action law suit was filed by an individual against the Bakersfield Heart Hospital. In the complaint the plaintiff alleges that under California law, and specifically under the Knox-Keene Healthcare Act, and under the Health and Safety Code of California that California prohibits the practice of “balance billing” patients who are provided “emergency services” as defined under California law. On November 24, 2010, the court granted the Bakersfield Heart Hospital’s motion to strike plantiff’s class allegations, which the plaintiff appealed. In February 2011, the parties negotiated and executed a settlement agreement whereby the plaintiff dismissed both his complaint (with prejudice) and his pending appeal. If laws governing the corporate practice of medicine change, we may be required to restructure some of our relationships. The laws of various states in which we operate or may operate in the future do not permit business corporations to practice medicine, exercise control over physicians who practice medicine or engage in various business practices, such as fee-splitting with physicians. The interpretation and enforcement of these laws vary significantly from state to state. We are not required to obtain a license to practice medicine in any jurisdiction in which we own or operate a hospital or other facility because our facilities are not engaged in the practice of medicine. The physicians who use our facilities to provide care to their patients are individually licensed to practice medicine. In most instances, the physicians and physician group practices are not affiliated with us other than through the physicians’ ownership interests in the facility or other joint ventures and through the service and lease agreements we have with some of these physicians. Should the interpretation, enforcement or laws of the states in which we operate or may operate change, we cannot assure you that such changes would not require us to restructure some of our physician relationships. The stockholders rights plan may make it more difficult for investors to acquire our common stock. In June 2011, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”) and declared a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right on each outstanding share of our common stock. The Rights Plan helps to protect the utilization of certain of our favorable tax attributes by deterring a potential buyer of our stock from accumulating an ownership position that could jeopardize our ability to utilize our net favorable tax attributes. However, the Rights plan does not ensure that a change of ownership which would jeopardize our tax attributes will not occur. The Rights Plan is intended to act as a deterrent to any person acquiring 4.99% or more of the outstanding shares of the Company’s Common Stock or any existing 4.99% or greater holder from acquiring any additional shares without the approval of the Board. The Plan includes a procedure whereby the Board may consider requests to exempt certain proposed acquisitions of Common Stock from the applicable ownership trigger if the Board determines that the requested acquisition will not limit or impair the value or availability of the Tax Attributes to the Company. The Rights Plan may make it more difficult for other persons or entities, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock, or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder’s best interests. The Rights Plan also may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 