Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. A large percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, in particular commercial real estate. Continued deterioration in the real estate markets or other segments of our loan portfolio could lead to additional losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, excluding loans acquired in the Heritage and Benchmark acquisitions and covered by our loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC for those transactions, approximately 57% of our loan portfolio was secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate. The commercial real estate market continues to experience a variety of difficulties. In particular, market conditions in the Chicago metropolitan area, in which a majority of our commercial real estate loans are concentrated, have declined significantly in the past year. As a result of increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declining real estate values, which reduce the customer's borrowing power and the value of the collateral securing the loan, we have experienced increasing levels of charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continued increases in delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate values, which cause our borrowers’ loan-to-value ratios to increase, could result in additional charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. This could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate. A substantial portion of our construction loans were non-performing at December 31, 2009. 10-K Index 17 We provide loans for the acquisition and development of land and for the acquisition, development, and construction of condominiums, townhomes, and one-to-four family residences. We also provide acquisition, development and construction loans for retail and other commercial properties, primarily in our market areas. Construction lending can involve a higher level of risk than other types of lending because funds are often advanced based upon the value of the project, which is uncertain prior to the project's completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs and the timing of project completion as well as the market value of a completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, our estimates with regard to the total funds required to complete a project, the proceeds from a project’s sale or refinance, and the related loan-to-value ratio may vary from actual results. Construction loans of for sale properties (residential or commercial) often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness. If our estimate of the value of a project at completion proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for repayment of the loan and we may incur a loss. At December 31, 2009, excluding loans acquired in the Heritage and Benchmark acquisitions and covered by our loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC for those transactions, our construction loans totaled approximately $594.5 million, or 9% of our total loan portfolio. Of these loans, approximately $312.7 million, or 53%, were residential construction-related and approximately $262.9 million, or 44%, were commercial construction related. Approximately $181.0 million, or 30%, of the $594.5 million of our construction loans were non-performing at December 31, 2009. These loans represented approximately 67% of our total non-performing loans as of December 31, 2009, excluding loans covered by our loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC for the Heritage and Benchmark acquisitions. The deterioration in the quality of our construction loan portfolio has been the primary factor behind the substantial increases in charge-offs and provisions for loan losses we have experienced in recent periods. Our provision for loan losses was $70.0 million for the fourth quarter of 2009, while our net charge-offs were $82.2 million. For the third quarter of 2009, our provision for loan losses and net charge-offs were $45.0 million and $37.1 million, respectively. Our provisions for loan losses and net charge offs for the full 2009 year were $231.8 million and $198.7 million, respectively, compared with $125.7 million and $46.8 million, respectively, for 2008. The Chicago area real estate market remains very weak, and we believe that further deterioration in the quality of our construction loan portfolio is a possibility. This could result in additional charge-offs and provisions for loan losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Repayment of our commercial loans and lease loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower or lessee, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. We make our commercial loans primarily based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Collateral securing commercial loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and fluctuate in value. In addition, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect the amounts due from its customers. Accordingly, we make our commercial loans primarily based on the historical and expected cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on underlying collateral provided by the borrower. We lend money to small and mid-sized independent leasing companies to finance the debt portion of leases (which we refer to as lease loans). A lease loan arises when a leasing company discounts the equipment rental revenue stream owed to the leasing company by a lessee. Our lease loans entail many of the same types of risks as our commercial loans. Lease loans generally are non-recourse to the leasing company, and, consequently, our recourse is limited to the lessee and the leased equipment. As with commercial loans secured by equipment, the equipment securing our lease loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. We rely on the lessee's continuing financial stability, rather than the value of the leased equipment, for the repayment of all required amounts under lease loans. In the event of a default on a lease loan, it is unlikely that the proceeds from the sale of the leased equipment will be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding unpaid amounts under the terms of the loan. Changes in economic conditions, particularly a further economic slowdown in the Chicago area, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2007, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that continued through 2009. Further deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within the Chicago area, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could hurt our business materially: 10-K Index 18 · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; · collateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer's borrowing power and reducing the value of collateral securing our loans; and · the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009. While economic growth may have resumed recently, the rate of this growth has been very low and unemployment remains at high levels. Many lending institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, especially construction and commercial real estate loans. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. These conditions may have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and capital and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies have been and are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. In this regard, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the "U.S. Treasury") has announced that more rigorous regulatory capital and liquidity standards for banks should be established by December 31, 2010 and implemented by December 31, 2012, but no specific measures have yet been published. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation and regulations in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate loans, and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Overall, during the past few years, the general business environment has had a negative effect on our business. Until there is a sustained improvement in economic conditions, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be negatively affected. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; · the credit history of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and · the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: · our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience; · our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and their underlying collateral; and · current macroeconomic factors and model imprecision factors. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 10-K Index 19 The value of the securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. Due to heightened credit and liquidity risks and the volatile economy, among other things, the market for some of the securities held in our investment portfolio has become increasingly volatile over the past two years, making the determination of the value of these securities less certain. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary or permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could significantly increase our non-interest expense. FDIC insurance premiums increased significantly in 2009 and we expect to pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. Recent bank failures have substantially depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the fund's ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC implemented a special assessment equal to five basis points of each insured depository institution's assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $3.6 million in the second quarter of 2009 for this special assessment. In November 2009, the FDIC amended its assessment regulations to require insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly regular risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012, on December 30, 2009. We prepaid $45.0 million, which will be expensed in the normal course of business throughout this three-year period. We participate in the FDIC's Transaction Account Guarantee Program, or TAGP, for non-interest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. The TAGP is a component of the FDIC's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLGP. The TAGP was originally set to expire on December 31, 2009, but the FDIC established an extension period for the TAGP to run from January 1, 2010 through June 30, 2010. During the extension period, the fees for participating banks range from 15 to 25 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance, depending on the risk category to which the bank is assigned for deposit insurance assessment purposes. To the extent that assessments under the TAGP are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLGP, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLGP upon depository institution holding companies, as well. These charges would cause the premiums and TAGP assessments charged by the FDIC to increase. These actions could significantly increase our non-interest expense for the foreseeable future. Changes in interest rates may reduce our net interest income. Our consolidated operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense incurred on deposits and other borrowings. Our net interest income is impacted by changes in market rates of interest, changes in credit spreads, changes in the shape of the yield curve, the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities, prepayments on our loans and investments, and the mix of our funding sources and assets. Our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. Interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types may lag behind. The result of these changes to rates may cause differing spreads on interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. While we take measures intended to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates, we cannot control or accurately predict changes in market rates of interest or be sure our protective measures are adequate. Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions exposes us to financial, execution and operational risks that could negatively affect us. We pursue a strategy of supplementing internal growth by acquiring other financial institutions or their assets and liabilities that will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy, including the following: 10-K Index 20 · We may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets, and liabilities we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our earnings and financial condition may be negatively affected; · Prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future; · The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful. These risks are present in our recently completed FDIC-assisted transaction involving our assumption of the deposits and the acquisition of certain assets of Benchmark; · The Company entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC as part of the Heritage and Benchmark transactions. These loss sharing agreements require that MB Financial Bank follow certain servicing procedures as specified in the agreement or risk losing FDIC reimbursement of losses on covered loans and other real estate owned. · To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; and · We have completed various acquisitions and opened additional banking offices in the past few years that enhanced our rate of growth. We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth or losses, both internally and through acquisitions. Any capital we obtain may result in the dilution of the interests of existing holders of our common stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances of our ability to raise additional capital if needed, or if the terms will be acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and negatively affected. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs. Liquidity is essential to our business, as we must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or negative regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits or support our future growth. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. These sources include brokered certificates of deposit, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased, Federal Reserve term auction funds and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Negative operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to an inability to replace these additional funding sources at maturity. Our financial flexibility could be constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. 10-K Index 21 Since our business is concentrated in the Chicago metropolitan area, a further decline in the economy of this area may negatively affect our business. Except for our lease banking activities, which are nationwide, our lending and deposit gathering activities are concentrated primarily in the Chicago metropolitan area. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of this metropolitan area and its surrounding areas. Many of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate. Most of these loans are secured by properties located in the Chicago metropolitan area. Deterioration in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could negatively affect the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as tornados. Negative changes in the regional and general economy could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans and generally have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could negatively affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be negatively affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of the difficulties or failures of other banks, which would increase the capital we need to support our growth. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. During the last year, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. New or changes in existing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a financial company's stockholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Item 1. Business-Supervision and Regulation”. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial liabilities. We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. 10-K Index 22 The loss of certain key personnel could negatively affect our operations. Our success depends in large part on the retention of a limited number of key management, lending and other banking personnel. We could undergo a difficult transition period if we were to lose the services of any of these individuals. Our success also depends on the experience of our banking facilities' managers and lending officers and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve. The loss of these key persons could negatively impact the affected banking operations. As a result of our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to significant restrictions on compensation payable to our executive officers and other key employees. Our ability to attract and retain key officers and employees may be impacted by legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. In 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the “ARRA”) became law. The ARRA, through the implementing regulations of the U.S. Treasury, significantly expanded the executive compensation restrictions originally imposed on TARP participants, including us. Among other things, these restrictions limit our ability to pay bonuses and other incentive compensation and make severance payments. These restrictions will continue to apply to us for as long as the preferred stock we issued pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program remains outstanding. These restrictions may negatively affect our ability to compete with financial institutions that are not subject to the same limitations. We may experience future goodwill impairment. If our estimates of the fair value of our goodwill change as a result of changes in our business or other factors, we may determine that an impairment charge is necessary. Estimates of fair value are based on a complex model using, among other things, cash flows and company comparisons. To the extent our market capitalization (market value of total common shares outstanding) is less than the book value of our total stockholders’ equity, this will be considered, along with other pertinent factors, in determining whether goodwill is impaired. If our estimates of future cash flows or other components of our fair value calculations are inaccurate, the fair value of goodwill reflected in our financial statements could be inaccurate and we could be required to take asset impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our business lines in our geographic markets and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, brokerage houses, mutual funds, insurance companies and specialized finance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than we are in order to obtain a share of the market. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. In addition, increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies may negatively affect our ability to successfully market our products and services. As a result, these competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. 10-K Index 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 