Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our securities could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. A substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. Deterioration in the real estate markets or other segments of our loan portfolio could lead to losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, excluding loans acquired in the Heritage, Benchmark, Broadway and New Century FDIC-assisted transactions and covered by our loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC for those transactions, approximately 42% of our total loan portfolio was secured by real estate (compared to approximately 43% as of December 31, 2012), a majority of which is commercial real estate. Our commercial real estate portfolio consists of health care, industrial, multifamily, office, retail and church and schools loans. Our concentration in commercial real estate loans involves additional risk as the values of the properties securing the loans have declined over the past several years. Vacancy rates have increased over the past several years, resulting in lower cash flows on the underlying properties and stress on our customer's ability to repay their loans. At December 31, 2013, excluding loans acquired in the Heritage, Benchmark, Broadway and New Century FDIC-assisted transactions and covered by our loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC for those transactions, our commercial real estate loans totaled $1.6 billion, or 29% of our total loan portfolio. This loan type represented approximately 55% of our total non-performing loans as of December 31, 2013. A weak real estate market could result in additional charge-offs and provisions for loan losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Repayment of our commercial loans and lease loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower or lessee, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. We make our commercial loans primarily based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Collateral securing commercial loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and fluctuate in value. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect the amounts due from its customers. Accordingly, we make our commercial loans primarily based on the historical and expected cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on underlying collateral provided by the borrower. At December 31, 2013, our commercial loans totaled $1.3 billion, or 22% of our total loan portfolio. This loan type represented approximately 17% of our total non-performing loans as of December 31, 2013. We lend money to small and mid-sized independent leasing companies to finance the debt portion of leases. A lease loan arises when a leasing company discounts the equipment rental revenue stream owed to the leasing company by a lessee. Our lease loans entail many of the same types of risks as our commercial loans. Lease loans generally are non-recourse to the leasing company, and, consequently, our recourse is limited to the lessee and the leased equipment. As with commercial loans secured by equipment, the equipment securing our lease loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. We rely on the lessee’s continuing financial stability, rather than the value of the leased equipment, for the repayment of all required amounts under lease loans. In the event of a default on a lease loan, it is unlikely that the proceeds from the sale of the leased equipment will be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding unpaid amounts under the terms of the loan. At December 31, 2013, our lease loans totaled $1.5 billion, or 26% of our total loan portfolio. This loan type represented approximately 4% of our total non-performing loans as of December 31, 2013.17We have been negatively affected by credit risk associated with residential real estate. We originate fixed and adjustable rate loans secured by one- to four-family residential real estate. Our general practice is to sell a majority of our newly originated fixed-rate residential real estate loans and to hold in portfolio a limited number of adjustable-rate residential real estate loans with 15 and 30 year maturities. Our portfolio also includes home equity lines of credit and fixed-rate second mortgage loans. Home equity lines of credit are generally extended up to 80% of the value of the property, less existing liens. Terms for second mortgages typically range from five to ten years. This type of real estate lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Chicago-area housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we will incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios generally will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, the borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our non-performing consumer related loans decreased from $30.9 million, or 26% of our total non-performing loans, as of December 31, 2012 to $25.4 million, or 24% of our total non-performing loans, as of December 31, 2013, primarily due to decreases in non-performing home equity and residential real estate loans. These two categories combined accounted for 94% of the consumer related non-performing loans as of December 31, 2013. As it relates to our residential mortgage loan sales, we may be required to repurchase some of those loans or indemnify the loan purchaser for damages caused by a breach of representations and warranties contained in the loan sale agreement. Although we believe that our mortgage documentation and procedures have been appropriate, it is possible that we will receive repurchase requests from our mortgage purchasers, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, in the future, and we may not be able to reach favorable settlements with respect to such requests. It is possible that we may sustain losses associated with such loan repurchases and indemnification payments. Changes in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown in the Chicago area, could hurt our business.Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within the Chicago area, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could hurt our business materially: •loan delinquencies may increase;•problem assets and foreclosures may increase;•demand for our products and services may decline;•collateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power; and•the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us. Except for our leasing and lease loan activities and certain treasury management services, which are nationwide, our lending and deposit gathering activities are concentrated in the Chicago metropolitan area. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of this metropolitan area and its surrounding areas. Many of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate. Most of these loans are secured by properties located in the Chicago metropolitan area. Deterioration in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could negatively affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as tornados. Negative changes in the regional and general economy could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans and generally have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18Negative developments in the financial industry have adversely affected our industry and our business. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation and regulations in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate loans, and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Overall, during the past few years, the regulatory environment has had a negative effect on our business.Fiscal challenges facing the U.S. government and the governments of other countries could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our investment securities are issued by and some of our loans are made to the U.S. government and government agencies and sponsored entities. As a result of uncertain domestic political conditions, including the recent federal government shutdown and potential future federal government shutdowns, the possibility of the federal government defaulting on its obligations for a period of time due to debt ceiling limitations or other unresolved political issues, investments in financial instruments issued or guaranteed by the federal government and loans to the federal government pose credit default and liquidity risks. In 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States from AAA to AA+. A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies, as well as sovereign debt issues facing the governments of other countries, could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Any such adverse impact could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: •cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;•changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan;•credit experience of a particular borrower;•changes in economic and industry conditions; and•duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:•our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience as well as current macroeconomic factors; and•our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and their underlying collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we may need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, most likely, capital, and may have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to market conditions outside of our control. As of December 31, 2013, our investment securities portfolio contained 345 securities in an unrealized loss position (with total unrealized losses of $11.3 million as of that date), compared to 117 securities in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2012 (with total unrealized losses of $6.4 million as of that date). Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our investment securities portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include but are not limited to rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, changes in market interest rates and instability in the credit markets. Any of these mentioned factors could cause an-other-than-temporary impairment or permanent impairment of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we have a large longer term municipal security portfolio that would decline substantially in value if interest rates increase materially.19Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could significantly increase our non-interest expense. FDIC insurance rates increased significantly in 2009, and we may pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio ("DRR"). The FDIC has determined that the DRR should be 2.0% and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum DRR of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect of the increase in the statutory minimum DRR to 1.35% from the former statutory minimum of 1.15% on institutions with assets less than $10 billion. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset or how larger institutions will be affected by it. Changes in interest rates may reduce our net interest income, and may result in higher defaults in a rising rate environment. Our consolidated operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense incurred on deposits and other borrowings. Our net interest income is impacted by changes in market rates of interest, changes in credit spreads, changes in the shape of the yield curve, the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities, prepayments on our loans and investments, and the mix of our funding sources and assets, among other things. Our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. Interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types may lag behind. The result of these changes to rates may cause differing spreads on interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. While we take measures intended to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates, we cannot control or accurately predict changes in market rates of interest or be sure our protective measures are adequate.If the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest bearing liabilities increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other interest earning assets, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. As a result of the relatively low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of deposits bearing no or a relatively low rate of interest. We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment. In addition, a substantial portion of our loans (approximately 41% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2013) have adjustable interest rates. While the higher payment amounts we would receive on these loans in a rising interest rate environment may increase our interest income, some borrowers may be unable to afford the higher payment amounts, which may result in a higher rate of default. A portion of our adjustable rate loans have interest rate floors that are in-the-money and may not adjust upward immediately with increases in interest rates. Rising interest rates also may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our fixed-rate investment securities. We pursue a strategy of supplementing internal growth by acquiring other financial companies or their assets and liabilities that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy, including the following:•We may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets, and liabilities we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected;•Prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future;•The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful;•To the extent our costs of an acquisition exceed the fair value of the net assets acquired, the acquisition will generate goodwill. As discussed below, we are required to assess our goodwill for impairment at least annually, and any goodwill impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition;•To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; and•We have completed various acquisitions in the past few years that enhanced our rate of growth. We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future.20The success of our pending acquisition of Taylor Capital is dependent on a number of factors beyond our control. The success of our pending acquisition of Taylor Capital, whereby Taylor Capital would be merged with MB Financial, Inc. and Taylor Capital's bank subsidiary, Cole Taylor Bank, would be merged with MB Financial Bank, is subject to a number of uncertain factors, including, but not limited to:•obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals in order to consummate the transactions. MB Financial and Taylor Capital must obtain approvals from the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Other approvals, waivers or consents from regulators may also be required. An adverse development in either party’s regulatory standing or other factors could result in an inability to obtain approval or delay their receipt. These regulators may impose conditions on the completion of the transactions. It is a condition to each company’s obligation to complete the merger that the requisite regulatory approvals be obtained without the imposition of any condition or restriction that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on, or materially and adversely affect the economic benefits to be realized by MB Financial (as the surviving corporation of the merger) and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, after giving effect to the merger;•obtaining the requisite stockholder approvals from the MB Financial and Taylor Capital stockholders;•our ability to realize expected revenues, cost savings, synergies and other benefits from the acquisition within the expected time frames or at all, and costs or difficulties relating to integration matters, including but not limited to customer and employee retention, might be greater than expected; and•the credit quality of loans and other assets acquired from Taylor Capital.MB Financial and Taylor Capital have operated and, until the completion of the acquisition, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the acquisition, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on MB Financial’s ability to successfully combine the businesses of MB Financial and Taylor Capital. To realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, after the completion of the acquisition, MB Financial expects to integrate Taylor Capital’s business into its own. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger. The loss of key employees could adversely affect MB Financial’s ability to successfully conduct its business in the markets in which Taylor Capital now operates, which could have an adverse effect on MB Financial’s financial results and the value of its common stock. If MB Financial experiences difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. As with any merger of financial institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause MB Financial and/or Taylor Capital to lose customers or cause customers to close their accounts with MB Financial and/or Taylor Capital and move their business to competing financial institutions. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. Post-acquisition, our total consolidated assets will exceed $10 billion and as a result, there may be higher expectations from regulators, formal capital stress testing requirements and direct examination by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. In addition, post acquisition the Company may be impacted by the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act regarding limits on debit card interchange fees. Our participation in the loss-share agreements with the FDIC requires that we follow certain servicing procedures, and the terms of certain loans may exceed the coverage periods under the loss-share agreements. MB Financial Bank entered into loss-share agreements with the FDIC as part of the Heritage, Benchmark, Broadway and New Century transactions. These loss-share agreements require that MB Financial Bank follow certain servicing procedures as specified in the agreement. A failure to follow these procedures or any other breach of the agreement by MB Financial Bank could result in the loss of FDIC reimbursement of losses on covered loans and other real estate owned, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the loss-share agreements protect MB Financial Bank against losses for limited periods of time (generally ten years for single family residential real estate loans and five years for commercial loans). To the extent MB Financial Bank continues to hold any of the covered loans following the expiration of the applicable loss-share period, it will absorb 100% of any losses. The commercial loan loss-share agreements begin to expire as follows: Heritage in March 2014, Benchmark in December 2014, and Broadway and New Century in June 2015. 21Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth or losses, both internally and through acquisitions. Any capital we obtain may result in the dilution of the interests of existing holders of our common stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time (which are outside our control) and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances of our ability to raise additional capital if needed, or if the terms will be acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and negatively affected. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs. Liquidity is essential to our business, as we must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or negative regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits or support our future growth. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. These sources include brokered certificates of deposit, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Negative operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to an inability to replace these additional funding sources at maturity. Our financial flexibility could be constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. The soundness of other financial institutions could negatively affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be negatively affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of the difficulties or failures of other banks, which would increase the capital we need to support our growth. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. During the last year, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. 22We provide treasury management services to money services businesses, which include check cashers, issuers/sellers of traveler’s checks, money orders and stored value cards, and money transmitters. Providing banking services to money service businesses exposes us to enhanced risks from noncompliance with a variety of laws and regulations. We provide treasury management services to the check cashing industry, offering check clearing, monetary instrument, depository, and credit services. We also provide treasury management services to money transmitters. Financial institutions that open and maintain accounts for money services businesses are expected to apply the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act and Bank Secrecy Act, as they do with all accountholders, on a risk-assessed basis. As with any category of accountholder, there will be money services businesses that pose little risk of money laundering or lack of compliance with other laws and regulations and those that pose a significant risk. Providing treasury management services to money services businesses represent a significant compliance and regulatory risk, and failure to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements could result in fines or sanctions.Prepaid card products and services are subject to extensive regulatory supervision and rules which are expensive to comply with. We offer several prepaid card products for our retail and commercial banking customers and to support our national product initiative. We are the issuing bank for all products, and in some cases are also the program manager. We currently have general purpose reloadable payroll, incentive and gift card programs. Prepaid cards are highly regulated by federal and state authorities. Some of the laws and related regulations in this area include consumer protection, escheatment, privacy, anti-money laundering and data protection laws. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, difficult and requires significant personnel resources.Issuers of prepaid cards have suffered significant losses in recent years with respect to the theft of cardholder data that has been illegally exploited for personal gain. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities involving cards and cardholder information, such as counterfeiting, fraudulent payment or refund schemes and identity theft. We rely upon third parties for some transaction processing services, which subject us and our cardholders to risks related to the vulnerabilities of those third parties. Theft or fraud-related losses involving our prepaid cards and other products and services could result in reputational damage to us and adversely affect our operating results. Financial reform legislation will, among other things, tighten capital standards and result in new regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. This law significantly changes the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Among the many requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for new banking regulations is the requirement for new capital regulations. Generally, trust preferred securities will no longer be eligible as Tier 1 capital, but the Company’s currently outstanding trust preferred securities will be grandfathered. See “Item 1. Business-Supervision and Regulation-New Capital Regulations.” The Dodd-Frank Act also broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution and are generally expected to increase for institutions having total assets in excess of $10 billion. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act increased the authority of the Federal Reserve Board to examine the Company and its non-bank subsidiaries and gave the Federal Reserve Board the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for an electronic debit transaction by a payment card issuer that, together with its affiliates, has assets of $10 billion or more, and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer. By regulation, the Federal Reserve Board has limited the fees for such a transaction to the sum of 21 cents plus five basis points times the value of the transaction, plus up to one cent for fraud prevention costs. The Dodd-Frank Act created a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, 23including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company. However, compliance with this law and its implementing regulations has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion of the Dodd-Frank Act, see “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation-Regulatory Reform.” New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company’s stockholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Item 1. Business-Supervision and Regulation”. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial liabilities. We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of certain key personnel could negatively affect our operations. Our success depends in large part on the retention of a limited number of key management and other banking personnel. We could undergo a difficult transition period if we were to lose the services of any of these individuals. Our success also depends on the experience of our banking facilities’ managers and bankers and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve. The loss of these key persons could negatively impact the affected banking operations. The pending Taylor Capital acquisition could impact the retention of key personnel. See "--The success of our pending acquisition of Taylor Capital is dependent on a number of factors beyond our control." We may experience future goodwill impairment. If our estimates of the fair value of our goodwill change as a result of changes in our business or other factors, we may determine that an impairment charge is necessary. Estimates of fair value are based on a complex model using, among other things, estimated cash flows and industry pricing multiples. Based on the Company's 2013 goodwill impairment testing, the fair values of the two reporting units, banking and leasing, were in excess of their carrying value. If the fair values of the two reporting units were less than their book value of total common stockholders' equity for an extended period of time, the Company will consider this and other factors, including the anticipated cash flows of each of the reporting units, to determine whether goodwill is impaired. No assurance can be given that the Company will not record an impairment loss on goodwill in the future and any such impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. It is expected that the completion of our acquisition of Taylor Capital will increase goodwill.Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our business lines and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, brokerage houses, mutual funds, insurance companies and specialized finance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than we are in order to obtain a share of the market. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with 24which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. In addition, increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies may negatively affect our ability to successfully market our products and services. As a result, these competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services.Our operations rely on numerous external vendors.We rely on numerous external vendors to provide us with products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which in turn could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We also could be adversely affected to the extent such an agreement is not renewed by the third party vendor or is renewed on terms less favorable to us. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology.Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber attack or cyber theft.Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger and virtually all other aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have a security impact. If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We could also suffer significant reputational damage.Security breaches in our internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures, which could result in significant legal liability and significant damage to our reputation and our business.Our security measures may not protect us from systems failures or interruptions. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may seek to implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, which could in turn have a material negative effect on our operating results.25Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 