Item 1A. Risk Factors Fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly and annual basis could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As a result, you should not rely on period to period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our revenue and results of operations may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Factors that are likely to cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate include those discussed in the risk factors below. If demand for our chipsets declines or does not grow, we will be unable to increase or sustain our revenue and our business will be severely harmed. We derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of chipsets for wireless applications. We currently expect our chipsets for wireless applications to account for substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to develop new products in a timely manner or demand for our chipsets declines as a result of competition or technological changes, it would have a material negative impact on our business, operating results and financial position and our competitive position. The markets for our wireless networking products are characterized by frequent introduction of next generation and new products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. If our customers or we are unable to manage product transitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations will suffer. In addition, frequent technology changes and introduction of next generation products may result in inventory obsolescence, which could reduce our gross margins and adversely affect our operating performance. Also, we are currently dependent on one customer for our single chip solution for PAS products. If we fail to maintain or grow our share of business with this customer and to win new customers for our PAS product, our revenue growth would be adversely affected. Since we have limited visibility as to the volume of sales of our products by our customers and inventory levels of our products held by our customers, our ability to forecast accurately future demand for and sales of our products is limited. We sell our chipsets to OEMs who integrate our chipsets into their products or to ODMs who include our chipsets in the products they supply to OEMs. We have limited visibility as to the volume of our products that our OEM and ODM customers are selling to their customers or carrying in their inventory. If our customers have excess inventory or experience a slowing of products sold through to their end customers, it would likely result in a slowdown in orders from our customers and adversely impact our future sales and inventory. Any future downturns in the semiconductor industry may reduce our revenue and result in excess inventory. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has, from time to time, experienced significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns may reduce our revenue or our percentage of revenue growth on a quarter-to-quarter basis and result in us having excess inventory. Furthermore, any upturn in the wireless communications market in which we sell our chipsets could result in increased competition for access to limited third-party foundry, assembly and test capacity. 12 Table of Contents Although we achieved profitability in past quarters and in fiscal 2005 and 2004, we incurred a net loss in the second quarter of 2005, and we may incur losses in the future. Accordingly, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue, or sufficiently control costs, in the future to sustain profitability. At December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $57.1 million. During 2005, we incurred $75.5 million in operating expenses and generated net income of $16.7 million. During 2004, we incurred operating expenses of $68.6 million and generated net income of $10.8 million. We did, however, incur a net loss in the second quarter of 2005 and may incur losses in the future. To sustain profitability, we will need to maintain or increase our revenue while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. In addition, since we expect average selling prices of our products to continue to decrease in the future, we will need to continue to reduce the average unit costs of our products and increase sales volumes in our existing markets as well as successfully introduce additional products for new markets in order to maintain profitability. We expect to increase expense levels in absolute dollars in each of the next several quarters to support increased research and development efforts related to new and existing product development and sales and marketing efforts. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short term, or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross profits. The products we develop and sell, especially those for wireless networking solutions, are used for high volume applications and are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices. The average selling prices have historically decreased significantly in order to meet market demand, and we expect that we will continue to reduce prices in the future. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could impact our average selling prices to all customers. Historically, we have generally been able to substantially offset reductions in our average selling prices with decreases in our product costs and increases in our unit volumes. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our unit volumes, reducing our costs or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross profit. While gross profit may decline as a result of reductions in average selling prices, we may continue to incur research and development costs at higher or existing levels to develop future products. This continued spending would have an adverse impact on our immediate operating results if our revenue does not continue to grow or our gross margins decline. We may not be able to compete effectively and increase or maintain revenue and market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. If we do not compete successfully, our market share and revenue may decline. We compete with large semiconductor manufacturers and designers and start-up integrated circuit companies. Most of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition and a larger base of customers than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. In addition, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. Moreover, many of our competitors have been doing business with customers for a longer period of time and have established relationships, which may provide them with information regarding future trends and requirements that may not be available to us. In addition, some of our larger competitors may be able to provide greater incentives to customers through rebates and marketing development funds and similar programs. Some of our competitors with multiple product lines may bundle their products to offer a broader product portfolio or integrate wireless functionality into other products that we do not sell, which may make it difficult for us to gain or maintain market share. For example, Intel markets its Centrino mobile technology brand and we believe they provide a substantial marketing development fund incentive for buyers of a combination of its microprocessor, related chipsets and wireless networking module that use the brand. Intel or other large competitors may also be able to discourage OEMs from placing our brand on their products, which could substantially harm our marketing efforts. 13 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel and consultants to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. The loss of any key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products and harm the market’s perception of us. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of our senior management, including our President and Chief Executive Officer and our senior engineering personnel. We do not have long-term employment contracts with these or any other key personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. There is currently a shortage of qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacture, marketing and sales of integrated circuits for use in wireless products. Our key technical personnel and consultants represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of technical personnel to support our business plan. We may not be able to sustain our recent growth rate, and we may not be able to manage our future growth effectively. We have experienced significant growth in a short period of time. Our revenue increased from $169.6 million in 2004 to $183.5 million in 2005 and our quarterly revenue increased from $41.2 million in the first quarter of 2005 to $53.1 million in the fourth quarter. We may not be able to achieve similar revenue growth rates for 2006 or in future periods. In the event that we do achieve continued growth, the expansion of our business and operations will likely place a significant strain on our resources and increased demands on our management information and reporting systems, financial and management controls and personnel. We may not be able to develop the internal capabilities or collaborative relationships required to manage future growth and expansion or to support future operations. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our financial results could be adversely affected. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and enhancements for wireless applications or if our proprietary features do not achieve market acceptance on a timely basis, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impaired, and our competitive position may be harmed. The wireless communications market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, rapid changes in customer requirements and frequent product introductions. We must continually design, develop and introduce new products with improved features to be competitive. Our current and future products may not achieve market acceptance or adequately address the changing needs of the wireless market, and we may not be successful in developing and marketing new products or enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis. The introduction of products embodying new technologies, the emergence of new industry standards or changes in customer requirements could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. In addition, we introduce from time to time products with proprietary enhancements. Although we believe our products are fully compliant with applicable industry standards, proprietary enhancements may not in the future result in full conformance with existing industry standards under all circumstances. Our introduction of proprietary features involves risks associated with market acceptance of these new products and certification by industry standards groups. We have reviewed the rules and regulations of the various standards bodies and related industry organizations to which we belong or with which we are affiliated, and we believe there is not a significant risk that action would be taken that would undermine our ability to continue to leverage our affiliation with these organizations. The development of our products is highly complex. We occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could 14 Table of Contents experience delays in the future. Unanticipated problems in developing wireless products could also divert substantial engineering resources, which may impair our ability to develop new products and enhancements and could substantially increase our costs. Even if the new and enhanced products are introduced to the market, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance of these products and our proprietary features in a timely manner. We will continue to expend substantial resources developing products for new applications or markets and may never achieve the sales volume for these products that we anticipate, which may limit our future growth and harm our results of operations. With the exception of our new product for the PAS cellular handset market, all of our products introduced to date have been for use in wireless networking applications. Our strategy includes developing and introducing new products for use in applications other than wireless networking. Our future success will depend in part upon the success of any such products, and we face a number of risks in connection with these products, including those described in other risk factors in this report. We have in the past, and will likely in the future, expend substantial resources in developing new and additional products for new applications and markets. We may experience unforeseen difficulties and delays in developing these products and defects upon volume production and broad deployment. In addition, we have no experience in markets other than wireless networking and PAS, and may be unsuccessful in marketing and selling any products we develop. The markets we choose to enter will likely be highly competitive and many of our competitors will have substantially more experience in these markets. Our success will depend on the growth of the markets we enter, the competitiveness of our products and our ability to increase our market share in these markets. If we choose to enter markets that do not achieve or sustain the growth we anticipate, or if our products are not competitive, we may not achieve volume sales, which may limit our future growth and harm our results of operations. If our product for the PAS cellular market is not successful, or if the PAS cellular market does not grow, our future results will be harmed. We introduced a new product for the PAS cellular handset market and commenced shipments in the second quarter of 2005. Our future success will depend in part upon the success of this product, and we face a number of risks in connection with the product, including those described in the risk factors in this report. Since the product was recently developed, we may experience unforeseen defects in this product upon volume production and broad deployment. In addition, we have no experience in the cellular market, and may be unsuccessful in marketing and selling this product. The China PAS cellular market is dominated by a very small number of handset providers and to date we have relied solely on UTStarcom for sales of our new product. If these providers, and in particular UTStarcom, are not successful in this market, or if they do not choose to incorporate our products into a significant number of their handsets, we will not be successful in selling our product. In addition we have no control over UTStarcom’s schedule for launching its products, and UTStarcom’s initial launch of products using our PAS product was delayed from our prior expectations. Any further delay by UTStarcom would delay revenues for our PAS products and could adversely affect our quarterly operating results. In addition, the China PAS cellular market may stop growing or may contract as competing technologies, such as wideband cellular third generation technologies become available. The market for cellular handset semiconductors is highly competitive and many of our competitors have substantially more experience in this market. There are a number of cellular technologies, some of which have technological advantages over PAS, and the market for PAS cellular may not continue to grow or remain a successful technology. If this product is not successful, our future growth would be adversely affected and our future results harmed. Our PAS customer has trial licenses for PAS handsets in China. Our PAS customer has trial licenses for PAS systems and handsets. Our customer has applied for, but has not yet received, a final official network access license for its PAS systems and handsets, including handsets that include our chipsets. We understand that these PAS systems and handsets are considered to still be in the trial period and that sales of PAS systems and handsets may continue to be made by our customer during this trial 15 Table of Contents period, but that licenses will ultimately be required. If our customer fails to obtain the required licenses, or if the trial period ends, it could be prohibited from making further sales of the unlicensed products in China, including PAS handsets that include our chipsets, which would substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The regulations implementing these requirements have not been applied by a court and may be interpreted and enforced by regulatory authorities in a number of different ways. China’s governmental authorities may interpret or apply the regulations with respect to which licenses are required, and with respect to our customers’ ability to sell a product while a product is in the trial period, in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a limited number of independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our chipsets and on a third party logistics provider to ship products to our customers. The failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have limited in-house testing facilities. Therefore, we must rely on third-party vendors to manufacture, assemble and test the products we design. We primarily rely on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation in Taiwan, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation in Shanghai, China and Tower Semiconductor Ltd. in Israel to produce our chips. We also rely on Amkor Technology, Inc. in China and Korea, ASAT Holdings Limited in China and Hong Kong, Siliconware Precision Industries Co., Ltd. in Taiwan, STATS ChipPAC Limited in Singapore and other third-party assembly and test subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products. In addition, we use JSI Shipping in Singapore to warehouse and ship our products to our customers. If these vendors do not provide us with high-quality products, services and/or production and test capacity in a timely manner, or if the relationship with one or more of these vendors is terminated, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacements and/or we may be unable to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, our relationships with our customers could suffer, our sales could decrease and our growth could be limited. We face risks associated with relying on third-party vendors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our chipsets. We face significant risks associated with relying on third-party vendors, including: • capacity shortages; • reduced control over product cost, delivery schedules and product quality; • potential price increases; • inability to achieve sufficient production, increase production or test capacity and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis; • increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; • shortages of materials that foundries use to manufacture products; and • labor shortages or labor strikes. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party manufacturing vendors and they may allocate capacity to other customers and may not allocate sufficient capacity to us to meet future demands for our products. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our third-party vendors. Therefore, they are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular accepted purchase order. None of our third-party foundry or assembly and test vendors has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demand for our products. Recently, our manufacturing vendors have indicated that, due to the current upturn in the semiconductor market, they will likely experience production capacity 16 Table of Contents constraints for the foreseeable future. Under these circumstances, these foundries and assembly and test vendors may allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice. In particular, other customers that are larger and better financed than us or that have long-term agreements with these foundries or assembly and test vendors may cause these foundries or assembly and test vendors to reallocate capacity to those customers, decreasing the capacity available to us. If we enter into costly arrangements with suppliers that include nonrefundable deposits or loans in exchange for capacity commitments, commitments to purchase specified quantities over extended periods or investment in a foundry, our operating results could be harmed. To date, we have not entered into such arrangements with our suppliers. If we need another integrated circuit foundry or assembly and test subcontractor because of increased demand, or the inability to obtain timely and adequate deliveries from our providers, we might not be able to cost-effectively and quickly retain other vendors to satisfy our requirements. If our third-party foundries or suppliers do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our relationships with our customers and our reputation will be harmed. The fabrication of chipsets is a complex and technically demanding process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. Our third-party foundries and suppliers have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. In addition, designing RF circuits using standard, complementary metal-oxide semiconductor processes is difficult and can result in unsatisfactory yields. Because we primarily purchase wafers, our exposure to low wafer yields from our foundries is increased. Poor yields from our foundries or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, or force us to sell our products at lower gross margins and therefore harm our financial results. In addition, manufacturing defects may not be detected by our testing, or may be caused by defective packaging of our products by our third-party suppliers. If these defects arise or are discovered after we have shipped our products, our reputation and business would suffer. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. If we fail to retain or expand customer relationships, our revenue could decline. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers, and we anticipate that we will continue to do so in the foreseeable future. These customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, to purchase fewer products than they did in the past, for example due to an increase in inventory, or to alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty. In the year ended December 31, 2005, Alpha Networks, Inc., Hon-Hai Precision Industry, Cameo Communications, Inc., and Askey Computer Corporation accounted for 15%, 15%, 13% and 10% of our net revenue, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2004, Hon-Hai Precision Industry, Askey Computer Corporation, Cameo Communications, Inc., and Alpha Networks, Inc. accounted for 23%, 17%, 12% and 10% of our net revenue, respectively. Some of our OEM customers are also original design manufacturer customers, which may increase the impact of the loss of any customer. We must obtain orders from new customers on an ongoing basis to increase our revenue and grow our business. Our largest customers are typically ODMs. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to OEMs that incorporate our products changing their designated ODM and the continued diversification of our OEM customer base in our current markets. We believe that sales will likely continue to fluctuate significantly in the future as we enter into new markets. The loss of any significant customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, or any problems collecting receivables from them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We will have difficulty selling our products if customers do not design our products into their product offerings or if our customers’ product offerings are not commercially successful. We sell our products directly to OEMs, who include our chipsets in their products, and to ODMs, who include our chipsets in the products they supply to OEMs. Our products are generally incorporated into our customers’ products at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEMs to design our products into the products they sell. Without these design wins, our business would be materially and adversely affected. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that an OEM will select our product for design into its own product. Once an OEM designs a competitor’s product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Furthermore, even if an OEM designs one of our products into its product offering, we cannot be assured that its product will be commercially successful, that we will receive any revenue from that manufacturer or that a successor design will include one of our products. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses from undetected defects, errors or bugs in hardware or software, which could reduce the market acceptance for our new products, damage our reputation with current or prospective customers and adversely affect our operating costs. Highly complex products such as our chipsets and the related reference designs we provide to our customers frequently contain defects, errors and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. We have in the past and may in the future experience these defects, errors and bugs. If any of our products have reliability, quality, or compatibility problems, we may not be able to successfully correct these problems. In addition, if any of our proprietary features contain defects, errors or bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released, we may be unable to correct these problems. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers and our financial results. In addition, these defects, errors or bugs could interrupt or delay sales to our customers. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recalls, repairs or replacement costs. These problems may also result in claims against us by our customers or others. Because we do not have long-term commitments from our customers, we must estimate customer demand, and errors in our estimates can have negative effects on our inventory levels, sales and operating results. Our sales are largely made on the basis of individual purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our customers have the right to cancel or defer some purchase orders. We have experienced in the past cancellations or deferrals of purchase orders, and additional cancellations and deferrals may occur from time to time. We have historically placed firm orders for products with our foundries up to approximately 16 weeks prior to the anticipated delivery date and typically prior to receiving an order for the product. Therefore, our order volumes are based on our forecasts of demand from our customers. This process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand or incorrectly estimate product mix, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect or at all. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would harm our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. On occasion, we have been unable to adequately respond to increases in customer purchase orders, and therefore, were unable to complete, or needed to delay, sales. We have in the past, and may in the future, allocate our supply among our customers. Product allocation may result in the loss of current customers, and if we are unable to commit to provide specified quantities of products over a given period of time, we will not attract new customers. The failure to maintain customer relationships would decrease our revenue and harm our business. 18 Table of Contents We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. To remain competitive, we continually work to improve our chipsets and, in particular, our high-performance RF products, to be manufactured using increasingly smaller geometries and to achieve higher levels of design integration. These ongoing efforts require us from time to time to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. To remain competitive, our chipset must be redesigned from time to time, which may result in delays in product deliveries. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. In addition, while we purchase wafers from foundries, we also assume the yield risk related to manufacturing these wafers into die. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses in the future. We depend on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully and cannot assure that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition. If our foundries, or we, experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement these transitions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and could cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting rules and regulations. A change in those accounting rules can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, in December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment” which will require us, starting in our first quarter of 2006, to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. Since we historically have used equity-related compensation as a component of our total employee compensation program, the accounting change could make the use of equity-related compensation less attractive to us and therefore make it more difficult to attract and retain employees. However, because we believe that providing equity-related compensation for our employees is a competitive necessity, we will likely incur significant and ongoing accounting charges resulting from option grants and other equity incentive expensing that could adversely affect our overall results of operations. Moreover, we intend to implement the requirements of SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method and accordingly we will not be restating prior period financial statements to reflect the historical impact of option grants. This may potentially cause readers of our financial statements to draw incorrect conclusions regarding our future operating performance since our financial statements going forward, which will reflect stock-based compensation expense, will not be comparable to our prior period financial statements that exclude stock-based compensation expense. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results. Our future effective tax rate could be unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, since we operate in different countries and are subject to taxation in different jurisdictions, our future effective tax rates could be impacted by changes in such countries tax laws or their interpretations. Both domestic and international tax laws are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, evolution of regulation and court rulings. The application of these tax laws and related regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Changes in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to consummate or successfully integrate any businesses that we may choose to acquire and any future acquisitions could harm our operating results and share price. We expect at some point in the future that we may make acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses that may offer complementary products and technologies, augment our market segment coverage, or enhance our technological capabilities, if appropriate opportunities arise. Risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition include among other things: • the difficulty or inability of completing the development and application of the acquired technology or products or of integrating that technology with our own, • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses, • the potential disruption of our ongoing business, • the distraction of management and employees from our business, • the risk of entering a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience, • the difficulty of establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures, • the risk that there could be deficiencies in the internal control of any acquired company that could result in a material weakness in our overall internal control, • the potential for unanticipated costs, expenditures and liabilities, • the potential for incurring amortization expenses or impairment charges if an acquisition results in significant goodwill or other intangible assets, • the potential for changing relationships with customers, suppliers or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues, including the potential loss of key employees, and • the potential for dilution if we pay for the transaction with equity securities. Any future acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, one-time charges, the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, deferred compensation charges, dilution to future earnings and amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and certain purchased intangible assets and large and immediate write-offs, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations and could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot assure that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions that are acceptable to us, that such transactions or relationships will be successful or that we will achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue or increase our costs. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies or may be held invalid or unenforceable in court. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as United States law. Any patents we have obtained, or may obtain in the future, may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Our competitors may independently develop or may have already developed similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be required to license our patents as a result of our participation in various standards organizations. 20 Table of Contents Because we license some of our software source code directly to customers, we face increased risks that our trade secrets will be exposed through inadvertent or intentional disclosure, which could harm our competitive position or increase our costs. We license some of our software source code to our customers, which increases the number of people who have access to some of our trade secrets and other proprietary rights. Contractual obligations of our licensees not to disclose or misuse our source code may not be sufficient to protect us from disclosure or misuse. The costs of enforcing contractual rights could substantially increase our operating costs and may not ultimately succeed in protecting our proprietary rights. If our competitors access our source code, they may gain further insight into the technology and design of our products, which would harm our competitive position. Intellectual property litigation, which is common in our industry, could be costly, harm our reputation, limit our ability to license or sell our proprietary technologies or products and divert the attention of management and technical personnel. The wireless communications market is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In the last few years, we have received several written notices or offers from our competitors and others claiming to have patent and other intellectual property rights in certain technology and inviting us to license this technology and related patents that apply to the IEEE family of wireless local area networking standards, including the 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11e, 802.11g and 802.11n wireless standards, as well as other technology and patents relevant to our chips, software and system solutions. These notices or offers have been made directly to us and through our U.S. and foreign customers. We have certain indemnification obligations to customers with respect to any infringement of third-party patents and intellectual property rights by our products. We have responded, or are in the process of responding, directly, or indirectly through our customers, to all of these notices, and continue to correspond regarding the offers with some of the parties that have sent the notices. While at least two of our customers have been sued in the U.S. by the holders of patents related to 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g technology, neither that litigation nor any of these notices or offers to license has to date resulted in litigation directly against us. Questions of infringement and misappropriation in the wireless communications market involve highly technical and subjective analyses. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce any patents we may receive and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, and we may not prevail in any future litigation. If litigation were to be filed against us in connection with an offer to license technology or claims of infringement, our business could be harmed. Litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from normal business operations. In addition, adverse determinations in litigation could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, and require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from licensing our technology or selling our products, any of which could seriously harm our business. Any of these consequences could result from litigation whether initiated by our competitors or others, including those that have already sent notices or offers to us and our customers claiming patent rights and offering licenses. Any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could also include our industry partners and customers, which could trigger our indemnification obligations to them and result in substantial expense to us. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our customers or licensees could also become the target of litigation, and certain customers have received notices of written offers from our competitors and others claiming to have patent rights in certain technology and inviting our customers to license this technology. At least two of our customers have been sued in the U.S. for allegedly infringing patents related to 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g technology. Because we indemnify our customers for intellectual property claims made against them for products incorporating our technology, any litigation could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our license or sales agreements, which could result in substantial expenses. 21 Table of Contents In addition to the time and expense required for us to supply support or indemnification to our customers, any such litigation could severely disrupt or shut down the business of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause the sale of our proprietary technologies and products to decrease. We face business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks because most of our operations and sales activities take place outside of the United States. A significant portion of our products is sold to customers outside the United States and Canada. Sales to customers in Asia have accounted for substantially all of our net revenue since 2003. Because most of our ODMs and our PAS customer are located in Asia, we anticipate that substantially all of our revenue will continue to be represented by sales to customers in that region. In addition, we conduct research and development activities in India and China and have sales, marketing and support personnel in Japan, Taiwan, Korea, Hong Kong, Macao and China. Our success depends upon continued expansion of our international operations. Our international business involves a number of risks, including: • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, tax laws, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations as well as cultural differences; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs that favor local competition in some countries; • difficulties of managing sales representatives, especially because we expect to increase our sales through our sales representatives; • inadequate local infrastructure and transportation delays; • financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • failure by us or our customers to gain regulatory approval for use of our products; and • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, and political unrest, recurrence of the SARS, avian flu, or any other outbreak, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future international sales and operations, consequently, our revenue and results of operations and business and financial condition. Our headquarters are located in California, and we have sales offices in Japan and elsewhere in Asia, and research and development facilities in India and China. Our third-party foundries and subcontractors are concentrated in Asia and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim. These areas are subject to significant weather and earthquake-related risks. Any disruption to the operations of these offices, foundries and subcontractors resulting from typhoons, earthquakes or other natural disasters could cause significant delays in the production, shipment and sales of our products. TSMC and SMIC, which manufacture our chipsets and subcontractors which perform substantially all of our assembly and testing are located in Asia. In addition, our headquarters are located in Northern California, and we have sales offices in Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong, China and elsewhere in Asia, and research and development facilities in India and China. These areas are subject to typhoons, and the risk of an earthquake or an earthquake-related disaster such as a tsunami in the Pacific Rim region or the Indian Ocean region, including Asia and Northern California, is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines. In the past, major earthquakes in Taiwan have disrupted the facilities of several of these third-party contractors, as well as other providers of these services, and impaired their production capacity. In addition, a tsunami in December 2004 caused widespread destruction and disruption of business in India and throughout the Indian Ocean coastal region. The occurrence of additional earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in the disruption of our foundry, assembly and test capacity or research and development efforts, or our ability to market and sell our products. We may not be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms, if at all and our research and development efforts could be slowed. 22 Table of Contents We rely upon third parties for technology that is integrated into some of our products, and if we are unable to continue to use this technology and future technology or the technology fails to operate, our ability to sell technologically advanced products would be limited. We rely on third parties for technology that is integrated into some of our products. If we are unable to continue to use or license on reasonable terms third-party technologies used in some of our products or the technology fails to operate, we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner and our business would be harmed. If our internal control over financial reporting does not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, investor perceptions of our company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. This legislation is relatively new and neither companies nor accounting firms have significant experience in complying with its requirements. As a result, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions of our company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business. Wireless networks can only operate in the frequency bands, or spectrum, allowed by regulators and in accordance with rules governing how the spectrum can be used. The Federal Communications Commission, or the FCC, in the United States, as well as regulators in foreign countries, have broad jurisdiction over the allocation of frequency bands for wireless networks. We therefore rely on the FCC and international regulators to provide sufficient spectrum and usage rules. For example, countries such as China, Japan or Korea heavily regulate all aspects of their wireless communications industries, and may restrict spectrum allocation or usage, or may impose requirements that render our products or our customers’ products unmarketable in these jurisdictions. If this were to occur, it would make it difficult for us to sell our products in that region. In addition, some of our chipsets operate in the 5 GHz band, which is also used by government and commercial services such as military and commercial aviation. The FCC and European regulators have traditionally protected government uses of the 5 GHz bands by setting power limits and indoor and outdoor designation and requiring that wireless local area networking devices not interfere with other users of the band such as government and civilian satellite services. Changes in current laws or regulations, reversal of usage rights, or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere regarding the allocation and usage of the 5 GHz band on us, our customers or the industries in which we operate may materially and adversely impact the sale of our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Rapidly changing standards could make our products obsolete, which would cause our operating results to suffer. We design some of our products to conform to standards set by industry standards bodies such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. We also depend on industry groups such as the WiFi Alliance to certify and maintain certification of our products. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible, or such industry groups fail to adopt standards with which our products are compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers and our sales would suffer. The emergence of markets for our chipsets is affected by a variety of factors beyond our control. In 23 Table of Contents particular, our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards. Competing standards may emerge that are preferred by our customers, which could also reduce our sales and require us to make significant expenditures to develop new products. For example, the IEEE recently adopted a draft 802.11n specification after considering many different proposals for the 802.11n standard and we are working to develop products based on this draft specification. If the IEEE does not adopt the current draft 802.11n standard or if we are unable to complete development of products based on the draft specification on a timely basis, we will lose customers and revenue and our business will be harmed. If our customers or the industries using wireless technology prefer to integrate wireless capability into other products, we may not be able to compete effectively, we will lose customers, our revenue will decline and our business will be harmed. We have adopted the strategy of maintaining wireless technology on a chipset that is separate from functionality contained on other chips within a product. Our customers or the industries using wireless technology may prefer to integrate wireless capability into other products such as DSL modems, or determine that an integrated chip with multiple functionality results in products that perform better or are less expensive or more efficient to manufacture. If wireless functionality becomes commonly integrated with other functionality, the market for our products may decline. Consequently, we may miss product cycles in order to redesign our products, and we may not be able to forge strategic relationships necessary in order to design and arrange for the production of chips that include multiple functionality. If we miss product cycles, we will lose customers, our revenue will decline and our business will be harmed. The proliferation of wireless devices may expand beyond the capacity of the channels available in the 2.4GHz or 5 GHz bands, which may overload the networks and result in decreased market demand for our products. Wireless networks currently operate in the 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz bands, within which there are a limited number of channels available for use. The increasing number of wireless devices and networks may overburden the frequency bands and overload the networks. Recent studies have predicted that congestion in the 2.4 GHz band could result from the increasing number of wireless devices using that band with limited channel availability. If this occurs, our customers or the industries in which we operate may be adversely affected because the networks become inoperable or because only a limited number of devices will be able to access the networks. In turn, we may experience a decrease in market demand for our products that would adversely impact our business and results of operations. We may experience a decrease in market demand due to uncertain economic conditions in the United States and in international market, including as a result of the concerns of terrorism, war and social and political instability. Terrorist attacks in the United States and elsewhere, the continued presence of United States military forces in Iraq, and turmoil in the Middle East have contributed to the uncertainty in the United States and global economy and may lead to a decline in economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. Further terrorist acts, or other conflicts or wars, or a recession, or general economic slowdown in the U.S. or globally, could cause a slowdown of the market demand for goods and services, including demand for our products, and could harm our operating results. Because the NASDAQ National Market is likely to continue to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, the price of our stock may decline. Since we completed our initial public offering in February 2004, the market price of our shares has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; 24 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or technological innovations; • introduction and adoption of new industry standards; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in the market valuations of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or partnerships; and • sales of our common stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may negatively impact the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and semiconductor companies in particular, have been highly volatile. Our common stock may not trade at the same levels of shares as that of other semiconductor and technology companies, and shares of semiconductor and technology companies, in general, may not sustain their current market prices. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and existing amounts available under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: • market acceptance of our products; • the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; • the existence of opportunities for expansion; and • access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing and there is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; • the establishment of a classified board of directors requiring that not all members of the board be elected at one time; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; 25 Table of Contents • the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of the board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; • the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors and the ability of stockholders to take action; • the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors for cause; and • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than they would without these provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 