D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our shares involves risk. We expect to be exposed to some or all of the risks described below in our future operations. Such risks include, but are not limited to, the risk factors described below. Any of the risk factors described below, as well as additional risks of which we are not currently aware, could also affect our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business activities, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and cause the value of our shares to decline. Moreover, if and to the extent that any of the risks described below materialize, they may occur in combination with other risks which would compound the adverse effect of such risks on our business activities, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Investors in our shares and American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) could lose all or part of their investment. You should carefully consider the following information in conjunction with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this document. The sequence in which the risk factors are presented below is not indicative of their likelihood of occurrence or of the potential magnitude of their financial consequences. 2 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Existing Business We are exposed to the risks of an economic recession, credit and capital market volatility and economic and financial crisis, which could adversely affect the demand for our products and adversely affect the market price of our shares and ADSs. We are exposed to the risk of a global recession or a recession in one or more of our key markets, credit and capital market volatility and an economic or financial crisis, which could result in lower revenue and reduced profit. Beer, other alcoholic beverage and soft drink consumption in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate is closely linked to general economic conditions, with levels of consumption tending to rise during periods of rising per capita income and fall during periods of declining per capita income. Additionally, per capita consumption is inversely related to the sale price of our products. Besides moving in concert with changes in per capita income, beer and other alcoholic beverage consumption also increases or decreases in accordance with changes in disposable income. Currently, disposable income is low in many of the developing countries in which we operate compared to disposable income in more developed countries. Any decrease in disposable income resulting from an increase in inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other factors would likely adversely affect the demand for beer. Moreover, because a significant portion of our brand portfolio consists of premium beers, our volumes and revenue may be impacted to a greater degree than those of some of our competitors, as some consumers may choose to purchase value or discount brands rather than premium or core brands. For additional information on the categorization of the beer market and our positioning, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—2. Principal Activities and Products—Beer.” Capital and credit market volatility, such as that experienced recently, may result in downward pressure on stock prices and the credit capacity of issuers. A continuation or worsening of the levels of market disruption and volatility seen in the recent past could have an adverse effect on our ability to access capital, on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and on the market price of our shares and ADSs. Our results of operations are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. Although we report our consolidated results in U.S. dollars, in 2015, we derived approximately 66% of our revenue from operating companies that have non-U.S. dollar functional currencies (in most cases, in the local currency of the respective operating company). Consequently, any change in exchange rates between our operating companies’ functional currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect our consolidated income statement and balance sheet when the results of those operating companies are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes, as we cannot hedge against translational exposures. Decreases in the value of our operating companies’ functional currencies against the U.S. dollar will tend to reduce those operating companies’ contributions in dollar terms to our financial condition and results of operations. During 2014 and 2015, several currencies, such as the Argentine peso, Mexican peso, the Brazilian reais, the Canadian dollar, the Russian ruble and the euro, underwent significant devaluation compared to the U.S. dollar. Our total consolidated revenue was USD 43.6 billion for the year ended 31 December 2015, a decrease of USD 3.5 billion compared to the year ended 31 December 2014. The negative impact of unfavorable currency translation effects on our consolidated revenue in the year ended 31 December 2015 was USD 6.0 billion, primarily as a result of the impact of the currencies listed above. More than half of the unfavorable currency translation impact described above resulted from negative currency translation effects in our Latin American North zone, predominately as the result of a devaluation in the 3 Table of Contents Brazilian real to the U.S. dollar. The 2015 results in Brazilian real were translated at an average rate of 3.26 Brazilian real per U.S. dollar compared to 2014 results which were translated at a rate of 2.35 Brazilian real per U.S. dollar, representing a devaluation of 27.9% year over year. Several currencies continue to undergo further significant devaluations. As an example, the Brazilian real reached an exchange rate of 3.90 Brazilian real per U.S. dollar on 31 December 2015 and in December 2015, the Argentine peso underwent a severe devaluation and reached 13.00 Argentine pesos per U.S. dollar by 31 December 2015 (compared to an average translation rate of 9.11 Argentine pesos per U.S. dollar in 2015 and 8.12 Argentine pesos per U.S. dollar in 2014). Significant changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the amounts we record for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations and profitability . See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review—E. Results of Operations—Year Ended 31 December 2015 Compared to the Year Ended 31 December 2014” for further details on the impact of currency translation effects on our results of operations. Moreover, following the completion of the Transaction, the Combined Group will continue to report its consolidated results in U.S. dollars. After taking into account the effects of the MillerCoors divestiture, the SABMiller Group derives the vast majority of its revenues from operating companies that have non-U.S. dollar functional currencies (in most cases, in the local currency of the respective operating company). After the completion of the acquisition of SABMiller, we expect that over 75% of the revenues of the Combined Group (not accounting for any possible divestitures other than the MillerCoors divestiture) would be derived from operating companies that have non-U.S. dollar functional currencies, increasing the exposure of our results to changes in exchange rates. In addition to currency translation risk, we incur currency transaction risks whenever one of our operating companies enters into transactions using currencies other than their respective functional currencies, including purchase or sale transactions and the issuance or incurrence of debt. Although we have hedge policies in place to manage commodity price and foreign currency risks to protect our exposure to currencies other than our operating companies’ functional currencies, there can be no assurance that such policies will be able to successfully hedge against the effects of such foreign exchange exposure, particularly over the long-term. In connection with the acquisition of SABMiller, we are committed to paying the cash consideration to former SABMiller shareholders in British pounds sterling (and, to the extent required for some SABMiller shareholders, South African rand), but the committed debt facilities we entered into are denominated in U.S. dollars, and we expect that as of the completion of the acquisition of SABMiller, a significant majority of our debt will be denominated in U.S. dollars. We have entered into, and may in the future enter into, financial transactions to mitigate exchange risk between U.S. dollars and British pounds sterling, but these financial transactions and any other efforts taken to better hedge our exposure to the British pound sterling may result in increased costs. Moreover, although we seek to proactively address and manage the relationship between borrowing currency liabilities and functional currency cash flows, much of our debt is denominated in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of our cash flows are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. From time to time we enter into financial instruments to mitigate currency risk, but these transactions and any other efforts taken to better match the effective currencies of our liabilities to our cash flows could result in increased costs. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Market Risk, Hedging and Financial Instruments” and note 27 to our audited financial information as of 31 December 2015 and 2014, and for the three years ended 31 December 2015, for further details on our approach to hedging commodity price and foreign currency risk. Changes in the availability or price of raw materials, commodities and energy could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A significant portion of our operating expenses are related to raw materials and commodities, such as malted barley, wheat, corn grits, corn syrup, rice, hops, flavored concentrate, fruit concentrate, sugar, sweetener, water, glass, polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) and aluminum bottles, aluminum or steel cans and kegs, aluminum can stock, labels, plastic crates, metal and plastic closures, folding cartons, cardboard products and plastic films. 4 Table of Contents The supply and price of raw materials and commodities used for the production of our products can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including the level of crop production around the world, export demand, quality and availability of supply, speculative movements in the raw materials or commodities markets, currency fluctuations, governmental regulations and legislation affecting agriculture, trade agreements among producing and consuming nations, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, economic factors affecting growth decisions, political developments, various plant diseases and pests. We cannot predict future availability or prices of the raw materials or commodities required for our products. The markets in certain raw materials or commodities have experienced and may in the future experience shortages and significant price fluctuations. The foregoing may affect the price and availability of ingredients that we use to manufacture our products, as well as the cans and bottles in which our products are packaged. We may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs or increase our prices without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income. To some extent, derivative financial instruments and the terms of supply agreements can protect against increases in materials and commodities costs in the short term. However, derivatives and supply agreements expire and upon expiry are subject to renegotiation and therefore cannot provide complete protection over the medium or longer term. To the extent we fail to adequately manage the risks inherent in such volatility, including if our hedging and derivative arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge against changes in commodity prices, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. In addition, it is possible that the hedging and derivative instruments we use to establish the purchase price for commodities in advance of the time of delivery may lock us into prices that are ultimately higher than actual market prices at the time of delivery. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Market Risk, Hedging and Financial Instruments” for further details on our approach to hedging commodity price risk. The production and distribution of our products require material amounts of energy, including the consumption of oil-based products, natural gas, biomass, coal and electricity. Energy prices have been subject to significant price volatility in the recent past and may be again in the future. High energy prices over an extended period of time, as well as changes in energy taxation and regulation in certain geographies, may result in a negative effect on operating income and could potentially challenge our profitability in certain markets. There is no guarantee that we will be able to pass along increased energy costs to our customers in every case. The production of our products also requires large amounts of water, including water consumption in the agricultural supply chain. Changes in precipitation patterns and the frequency of extreme weather events may affect our water supply and, as a result, our physical operations. Water may also be subject to price increases in certain areas, and changes in water taxation and regulation in certain geographies may result in a negative effect on operating income which could potentially challenge our profitability in certain markets. There is no guarantee that we will be able to pass along increased water costs to our customers in every case. We may not be able to obtain the necessary funding for our future capital or refinancing needs and may face financial risks due to our level of debt (including as a result of the acquisition of SABMiller), uncertain market conditions and as a result of the potential downgrading of our credit ratings. We may be required to raise additional funds for our future capital needs or to refinance our current indebtedness through public or private financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements. There can be no assurance that the funding, if needed, will be available on attractive terms, or at all. In connection with the Transaction, we entered into a USD 75.0 billion senior facilities agreement (the “2015 Senior Facilities Agreement”) on 28 October 2015, consisting of a USD 15.0 billion 364-day bridge facility, a second USD 15.0 billion 364-day bridge facility (with an option to extend for an additional 12 months), a USD 10.0 billion 364-day disposals bridge facility, a USD 25.0 billion two-year term facility (with an option to extend for an additional 12 months) and a USD 10.0 billion five-year term facility. As of 31 December 2015, we had not made any drawdowns under the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement. 5 Table of Contents In January 2016, we issued bonds in debt capital markets offerings resulting in aggregate net proceeds of approximately USD 47.0 billion (see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review—G. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Funding Sources—Borrowings.”). Upon receipt of these proceeds, we were required to cancel the two USD 15.0 billion bridge facilities under the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement, and, in addition, we elected to cancel USD 12.5 billion of the two-year term facility. As a result of such cancellations, as of the date of this Form 20-F, the total committed amount under the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement comprised USD 22.5 billion under the term facilities and USD 10.0 billion under the disposals bridge facility. The disposals bridge facility is repayable in full on the first anniversary of the completion of the Transaction. Subject to certain exceptions, we are required to apply the entirety of the proceeds from any asset disposal in excess of USD 1 billion to cancel or repay the commitments or outstanding loans under the disposals bridge facility. Upon completion, the net proceeds of the MillerCoors divestiture will repay part of the disposals bridge facility, and we intend to refinance the remainder of the disposals bridge facility from a combination of the proceeds of certain asset divestitures (for example, if a sale is agreed, using the proceeds of the sale of SABMiller’s Peroni, Grolsch and Meantime brand families and associated business) and debt capital markets offerings. Such asset divestitures and debt capital markets offerings are not conditioned upon one another and may be consummated at various times. However, we may not be able to effect any offerings or divestitures at the time intended, or at all or at the desired price, especially in challenging market conditions. In addition, any asset divestiture could itself be the subject of regulatory restrictions or challenges or litigation and a regulatory authority or court could delay any such transactions or prohibit them from occurring on their proposed terms, or from occurring at all, which could adversely affect the funding, synergies and cost-savings sought to be achieved in connection with the Transaction. Failure to complete the anticipated asset divestitures and debt capital markets offerings would constrain our ability to refinance this indebtedness and require us to seek alternative refinancing sources, which may be unavailable or result in higher costs. Whether or not we are able to refinance the indebtedness incurred in connection with the Transaction through asset disposals, the portion of our consolidated balance sheet that will be represented by debt will increase substantially as compared to our historical position. The terms of the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement and our USD 9.0 billion revolving credit facility maturing in August 2020, as well as their intended uses, are described under “Item 10. Additional Information—C. Material Contracts.” We expect the portion of our consolidated balance sheet represented by debt to remain significantly higher as compared to our historical position. Our continued increased level of debt could have significant consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, to engage in future acquisitions or development activities or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future, or requiring us to obtain financing involving restrictive covenants; • requiring us to issue additional equity (possibly under unfavorable conditions), which could dilute our existing shareholders equity; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. 6 Table of Contents In addition, ratings agencies may downgrade our credit ratings below their current levels, including as a result of the incurrence of the financial indebtedness related to the Transaction. As of 31 December 2015, our credit rating from Standard & Poor’s Rating Services was A- for long-term obligations and A-2 for short-term obligations, with a stable outlook, and our credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service was A2 for long-term obligations and P-1 for short-term obligations, and was under review for downgrade. Any further downgrading of our credit ratings would result in an increase to the coupon payable on each of the facilities under our 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement, and may result in the need to refinance some of the outstanding indebtedness of SABMiller which provides holders with redemption rights at a premium when a change of control is accompanied by a rating downgrade below investment grade. Any credit rating downgrade could materially adversely affect our ability to finance our ongoing operations, and our ability to refinance the debt incurred to fund the Transaction, including by increasing our cost of borrowing and significantly harming our financial condition, results of operations and profitability, including our ability to refinance our other existing indebtedness In recent years, we have given priority to deleveraging, with surplus free cash flow being used to reduce the level of outstanding debt. In light of the increased debt that would result from the completion of the Transaction, deleveraging will remain a priority and may restrict the amount of dividends we are able to pay. Our ability to repay and renegotiate our outstanding indebtedness will depend upon market conditions. In recent years, the global credit markets experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions that caused the cost of debt financings to fluctuate considerably. The markets also put downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. If such uncertain conditions persist, our costs could increase beyond what is anticipated. Such costs could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or both. In addition, an inability to refinance all or a substantial amount of our debt obligations when they become due, or more generally a failure to raise additional equity capital or debt financing or to realize proceeds from asset sales when needed, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results could be negatively affected by increasing interest rates. We use issuances of debt and bank borrowings as a source of funding and we carry a significant level of debt. Nevertheless, pursuant to our capital structure policy, we aim to optimize shareholder value through cash flow distribution to us from our subsidiaries, while maintaining an investment-grade rating and minimizing cash and investments with a return below our weighted average cost of capital. Some of the debt we have issued or incurred was issued or incurred at variable interest rates, which exposes us to changes in such interest rates. As of 31 December 2015, after certain hedging and fair value adjustments, USD 6.1 billion, or 12.4%, of our interest-bearing financial liabilities (which include loans, borrowings and bank overdrafts) bore a variable interest rate, while USD 43.3 billion, or 87.6%, bore a fixed interest rate. Moreover, a significant part of our external debt is denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies, including the euro, pound sterling, Brazilian real and the Canadian dollar. Although we enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our interest rate risk, and also enter into cross-currency interest rate swap agreements to manage both our foreign currency risk and interest rate risk on interest-bearing financial liabilities, there can be no assurance that such instruments will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Market Risk, Hedging and Financial Instruments” and note 27 to our audited financial statements as of 31 December 2015 and 2014, and for the three years ended 31 December 2015, for further details on our approach to foreign currency and interest rate risk. Certain of our operations depend on independent distributors or wholesalers to sell our products. Certain of our operations are dependent on government-controlled or privately owned but independent wholesale distributors for distribution of our products for resale to retail outlets. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—7. Distribution of Products” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—11. Regulations Affecting Our Business” for further information in this respect. There can be no assurance as to the financial affairs of such distributors or that these distributors, who often act both for us and our competitors, will not give our competitors’ products higher priority, thereby reducing their efforts to sell our products. 7 Table of Contents In the United States, for instance, we sell substantially all of our beer to independent wholesalers for distribution to retailers and ultimately consumers. As independent companies, wholesalers make their own business decisions that may not always align themselves with our interests. If our wholesalers do not effectively distribute our products, our financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, contractual restrictions and the regulatory environment of many markets may make it very difficult to change distributors in a number of markets. In certain cases, poor performance by a distributor or wholesaler is not a sufficient reason for replacement. Our consequent inability to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. There may be changes in legislation or interpretation of legislation by regulators or courts that may prohibit or reduce the ability of brewers to own wholesalers and distributors. In certain countries we have interests in wholesalers and distributors, and such interests may be prohibited if legislation or interpretation of legislation changes. Any limitation imposed on our ability to purchase or own any interest in distributors could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not successfully comply with laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption in countries in which we sell our products, we could become subject to fines, penalties or other regulatory sanctions, as well as to adverse press coverage, which could cause our reputation, our sales or our profitability to suffer. We operate our business and market our products in emerging markets that, as a result of political and economic instability, a lack of well-developed legal systems and potentially corrupt business environments, present us with political, economic and operational risks. Although we are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner in compliance with local and international statutory requirements and standards applicable to our business, there is a risk that the employees or representatives of our subsidiaries, affiliates, associates, joint ventures or other business interests may take actions that violate applicable laws and regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business, including laws relating to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, and Brazilian Law No. 12,846/13 (an anti-bribery statute that was enacted in January 2014). Such actions could expose us to potential liability and the costs associated with investigating potential misconduct. In addition, any press coverage associated with misconduct under these laws and regulations, even if unwarranted or baseless, could damage our reputation and sales. In respect of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, we have been informed by the U.S. Department of Justice and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) that they are conducting investigations into the relationships of our current and former affiliates in India, including our former non-consolidated Indian joint venture, which we exited during 2015. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal and Arbitration Proceedings.” In Brazil, governmental authorities are currently investigating consulting services provided by a firm part-owned by a former elected government official who has been subject to prosecution. Our subsidiary, Ambev, has, in the past, hired the services of this consulting firm. We have reviewed our internal controls and compliance procedures in relation to these services and have not identified any evidence of misconduct. 8 Table of Contents Competition could lead to a reduction of our margins, increase costs and adversely affect our profitability. We compete with both brewers and other drinks companies and our products compete with other beverages. Globally, brewers, as well as other players in the beverage industry, compete mainly on the basis of brand image, price, quality, distribution networks and customer service. Consolidation has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors in some of the markets in which we operate, and competition is expected to increase further as the trend towards consolidation among companies in the beverage industry continues. Consolidation activity has also increased along our distribution channels — in the case of both on-trade points of sale, such as pub companies, and off-trade retailers, such as supermarkets. Such consolidation could increase the purchasing power of players in our distribution channels. Competition may divert consumers and customers from our products. Competition in our various markets and increased purchasing power of players in our distribution channels could cause us to reduce pricing, increase capital investment, increase marketing and other expenditures, and/or prevent us from increasing prices to recover higher costs, and thereby cause us to reduce margins or lose market share. Moreover, because we rely on only a limited number of brands across a limited number of markets for the majority of our sales, any dilution of our brands as a result of competitive trends could also lead to a significant erosion of our profitability. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Innovation faces inherent risks, and the new products we introduce may not be successful, while competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to emerging trends, such as the increasing consumer preference for “craft beers” produced by smaller microbreweries. Additionally, the absence of level playing fields in some markets and the lack of transparency, or even certain unfair or illegal practices, such as tax evasion and corruption, may skew the competitive environment in favor of our competitors, with material adverse effects on our profitability or ability to operate. The ability of our subsidiaries to distribute cash upstream may be subject to various conditions and limitations. To a large extent, we are organized as a holding company and our operations are carried out through subsidiaries. Our domestic and foreign subsidiaries’ and affiliated companies’ ability to upstream or distribute cash (to be used, among other things, to meet our financial obligations) through dividends, intercompany advances, management fees and other payments is, to a large extent, dependent on the availability of cash flows at the level of such domestic and foreign subsidiaries and affiliated companies and may be restricted by applicable laws and accounting principles. In particular, 32.8% (USD 14.3 billion) of our total revenue of USD 43.6 billion in 2015 came from our Brazilian listed subsidiary, Ambev, which is not wholly owned and is listed on the São Paulo Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. In addition to the above, some of our subsidiaries are subject to laws restricting their ability to pay dividends or the amount of dividends they may pay. If we are not able to obtain sufficient cash flows from our domestic and foreign subsidiaries and affiliated companies, this could adversely impact our ability to pay dividends, and otherwise negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review—G. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Transfers from Subsidiaries” and “Item 10. Additional Information—F. Dividends and Paying Agents” for further information in this respect. An inability to reduce costs could affect profitability. Our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to be efficient in producing, advertising and selling our products and services. We are pursuing a number of initiatives to improve operational efficiency. Failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through these initiatives could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to achieve our financial goals. 9 Table of Contents We are exposed to developing market risks, including the risks of devaluation, nationalization and inflation. A substantial proportion of our operations, representing approximately 52% of our 2015 revenue, is carried out in developing markets, including Brazil (which represents 18.5% of our revenue), Argentina, China, Mexico, Russia, Bolivia, Paraguay, Ukraine and South Korea. We also have equity investments in brewers in China. Our operations and equity investments in these markets are subject to the customary risks of operating in developing countries, which include political instability or insurrection, external interference, financial risks, changes in government policy, political and economic changes, changes in the relations between countries, actions of governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, regulations on repatriation of funds, interpretation and application of local laws and regulations, enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights, local labor conditions and regulations, potential political and economic uncertainty, application of exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation, crime and lack of law enforcement. Such factors could affect our results by causing interruptions to our operations or by increasing the costs of operating in those countries or by limiting our ability to repatriate profits from those countries. The financial risks of operating in developing markets also include risks of illiquidity, inflation (for example, Brazil, Argentina and Russia have periodically experienced extremely high rates of inflation), devaluation (see “—Our results of operations are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates”), price volatility, currency convertibility and country default. These various factors could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to our geographic mix, these factors could affect us more than our competitors with less exposure to developing markets, and following the completion of the Transaction, our exposure to developing markets will increase. Any general decline in developing markets as a whole could impact us disproportionately compared to our competitors. Economic and political events in Argentina may adversely affect our Argentine operations. Our subsidiary Ambev indirectly owns 100% of the total share capital of a holding company with operating subsidiaries in Argentina and other South American countries. Net revenues from our operating subsidiaries in Argentina corresponded to 4.8% of our total revenue and 5.4% of our EBITDA, as defined, for the year ended 31 December 2015. For our definition of EBITDA, as defined, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review—E. Results of Operations—Year Ended 31 December 2015 Compared to the Year Ended 31 December 2014—EBITDA, as defined.” In the past, the Argentine economic, social and political situation has deteriorated, and may continue to do so. The political instability, fluctuations in the economy, governmental actions concerning the economy of Argentina, the devaluation of the Argentine peso, inflation, Argentina’s selective default on its restructured debt in July 2014 and deteriorating macroeconomic conditions in Argentina could have a material adverse effect on our Latin America South operations, their financial condition and their results. During recent years, the Argentine government has increased its direct intervention in the Argentine economy, including the establishment of currency controls. However, on 16 December 2015, the Argentine government announced that it was lifting these currency controls, which led to a 26.5% devaluation against the U.S. dollar on 17 December 2015 and may lead to further unpredictable consequences for the value of the Argentine peso, including possible further devaluation. The 2015 Argentine full-year results were translated at an average rate of 9.10 Argentine pesos per U.S. dollar (as compared to 8.12 Argentine pesos per U.S. dollar in 2014), and as of 31 December 2015, the exchange rate was 13.00 Argentine pesos per U.S. dollar. Further devaluations in the future, if any, may decrease our net assets in Argentina, with a balancing entry in our equity. If the economic or political situation in Argentina further deteriorates, our Latin America South operations may be subject to additional restrictions under new foreign exchange, export repatriation or expropriation regimes that could adversely affect our liquidity and operations, and our ability to access funds from Argentina. 10 Table of Contents Political events in Ukraine, related sanctions adopted by the European Union and the United States targeting Russia and economic events in Russia may adversely affect our operations in Ukraine, Russia and elsewhere in the region. We indirectly own 98.1% of the total share capital of PJSC SUN InBev Ukraine in Ukraine, the net revenues of which accounted for less than 1% of our total revenues in 2015. We also own and operate beer production facilities in Ukraine. In addition, we indirectly own 99.8% of the total share capital of SUN InBev OJSC in Russia, the net revenues of which accounted for less than 2% of our total revenues in 2015. Severe political instability threatens Ukraine following civilian riots, which began in November 2013, the ouster of the Ukrainian President in February 2014, and subsequent military action in the destabilized country operating under a temporary government. As a result of ongoing conflict in the region, the United States and the European Union have imposed sanctions on certain individuals and companies in Ukraine and Russia. These sanctions were targeted at persons threatening the peace and security of Ukraine, senior officials of the Government of the Russian Federation and the energy, defense and financial services sectors of Russia, but they have had macroeconomic consequences beyond those persons and industries. In response, Russia instituted a set of reciprocal sanctions, and in August 2014 it imposed a one-year import ban on certain agricultural products, food and raw materials from countries that have imposed sanctions against Russia. In December 2014, the United States imposed further sanctions aimed at blocking new investment in the Crimea region of Ukraine and trade between the United States or U.S. persons and Crimea. These sanctions also authorized the United States government to impose sanctions on any persons determined to be operating in the Crimea region of Ukraine. Both the United States and the European Union sanctions remain in place as of the date of this Form 20-F. SUN InBev OJSC conducts, and in the past PJSC SUN InBev Ukraine has conducted, limited selling and distribution activities in the Crimea region. We continue to monitor our subsidiaries’ activities in light of the restrictions imposed by these and any future sanctions. Political instability in the region has combined with low worldwide oil prices to significantly devalue the Russian ruble and may continue to have a negative impact on the Russian economy. In addition, the Ukrainian hryvnia has also experienced significant devaluation since the beginning of 2014. The possibility of additional sanctions implemented by the United States and/or the European Union against Russia or vice versa, continued political instability, civil strife, deteriorating macroeconomic conditions and actual or threatened military action in the region may result in serious economic challenges in Ukraine, Russia and the surrounding areas. This could have a material adverse effect on our subsidiaries’ operations in the region and on the results of operations of our Europe segment, and may result in impairment charges on goodwill or other intangible assets. We rely on the reputation of our brands. Our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance the image and reputation of our existing products and to develop a favorable image and reputation for new products. The image and reputation of our products may be reduced in the future; concerns about product quality, even when unfounded, could tarnish the image and reputation of our products. An event, or series of events, that materially damages the reputation of one or more of our brands could have an adverse effect on the value of that brand and subsequent revenues from that brand or business. Restoring the image and reputation of our products may be costly and may not be possible. Moreover, our marketing efforts are subject to restrictions on the permissible advertising style, media and messages used. In a number of countries, for example, television is a prohibited medium for advertising beer and other alcoholic beverage products, and in other countries, television advertising, while permitted, is carefully regulated. Any additional restrictions in such countries, or the introduction of similar restrictions in other countries, may constrain our brand building potential and thus reduce the value of our brands and related revenues. 11 Table of Contents Negative publicity, perceived health risks and associated governmental regulation may harm our business. Media coverage, and publicity generally, can exert significant influence on consumer behavior and actions. If the social acceptability of beer, other alcoholic beverages or soft drinks were to decline significantly, sales of our products could materially decrease. In recent years, there has been increased public and political attention directed at the alcoholic beverage and food and soft drink industries. This attention is the result of health concerns related to the harmful use of alcohol, including drink driving, excessive, abusive and underage drinking and drinking while pregnant, as well as health concerns such as obesity and diabetes related to the overconsumption of food and soft drinks. Negative publicity regarding beer, other alcoholic beverage or soft drink consumption, publication of studies that indicate a significant health risk from consumption of beer, other alcoholic beverages or soft drinks, or changes in consumer perceptions in relation to beer, other alcoholic beverages or soft drinks generally could adversely affect the sale and consumption of our products and could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition as consumers and customers change their purchasing patterns. For example, in May 2013, the World Health Assembly endorsed the World Health Organization’s Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Noncommunicable Diseases (NCDs) 2013–2020. The harmful use of alcohol has been cited as a risk factor for NCDs. The action plan for NCDs calls for at least a 10% relative reduction in the harmful use of alcohol, as appropriate, within national contexts. As a further example, the Russian authorities have adopted legislative changes linked to concerns about the harmful use of alcohol. In 2012, Russia adopted bans on the sale of beer in kiosks and the sale of beer between the hours of 11:00 pm and 8:00 am, a ban on beer advertisements on television, internet, printed media, radio and outdoor beer advertisements and a further increase in excise taxes on beer. Between 2009 and 2014, the beer excise rate increased nine times—from RUB 2/liter to RUB 18/liter. Other legislative proposals discussed in Russia include restrictions on PET containers, the imposition of production and turnover licensing requirements and a requirement that companies that engage in the production and marketing of beer and other malt beverages register under the Unified State Automated Information System. In addition, effective 1 January 2015, Russia now imposes a levy on manufacturers and importers that do not meet certain waste recycling targets. Similarly, in Ukraine, from 2013 to 2014, the beer excise tax rate increased 42.5% to UAH 1.24/liter in 2014, and as of 1 January 2016, the excise tax rate for beer doubled to UAH 2.48/liter. At the end of December 2014, the Ukrainian Parliament significantly changed the regulatory environment for beer, making it legally equivalent to spirits. As of July 2015, beer cannot be advertised in printed media, by indoor or outdoor advertisement, on the metro and other public transportation, nor on radio and television between the hours of 6:00 pm and 11:00 am In addition, production, wholesale and retail licensing requirements and wholesale, import and export certifications have been imposed. Effective 1 January 2015, Ukraine has also implemented a new excise tax of 5% for retailers on certain products, including beer and alcoholic beverages. Concerns over alcohol abuse and underage drinking have also caused governments, including those in Argentina, Brazil, Spain, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States, to consider measures such as increased taxation, implementation of minimum alcohol pricing regimes or other changes to the regulatory framework governing our marketing and other commercial practices. Key brand names are used by us, our subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, and are licensed to third-party brewers. To the extent that we or one of our subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures or licensees are subject to negative publicity, and the negative publicity causes consumers and customers to change their purchasing patterns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. As we continue to expand our operations into developing and growth markets, there is a greater risk that we may be subject to negative publicity, in particular in relation to labor rights and local work conditions. Negative publicity that materially damages the reputation of one or more of our brands could have an adverse effect on the value of that brand and subsequent revenues from that brand or business, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes. We depend on our ability to satisfy consumer preferences and tastes. Consumer preferences and tastes can change in unpredictable ways due to a variety of factors, such as changes in demographics, consumer health and wellness, concerns about obesity or alcohol consumption, product attributes and ingredients, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, weather, negative publicity resulting from regulatory action or litigation against us or comparable companies or a downturn in economic conditions. Consumers also may begin to prefer the products of competitors or may generally reduce their demand for products in the category. Failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately either to changes in consumer preferences and tastes or to developments in new forms of media and marketing could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Seasonal consumption cycles and adverse weather conditions may result in fluctuations in demand for our products. Seasonal consumption cycles and adverse weather conditions in the markets in which we operate may have an impact on our operations. This is particularly true in the summer months, when unseasonably cool or wet weather can affect sales volumes. Demand for beer is normally more depressed in our major markets in the Northern Hemisphere during the first and fourth quarters of each year, and our consolidated net revenue from those markets is therefore normally lower during this time. Although this risk is somewhat mitigated by our relatively balanced footprint in both hemispheres, we are relatively more exposed to the markets in the Northern Hemisphere than to the markets in the Southern Hemisphere, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business or operations, and water scarcity or poor quality could negatively impact our production costs and capacity. There is a growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain agricultural commodities that are necessary for our products, such as barley, hops, sugar and corn. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment due to increased regulatory pressures. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term, material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We also face water scarcity and quality risks. Clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world, facing unprecedented challenges from climate change and the resulting change in precipitation patterns and frequency of extreme weather, overexploitation, increasing pollution, and poor water management. As demand for water continues to increase around the world, and as water becomes scarcer and the quality of available water deteriorates, we may be affected by increasing production costs or capacity constraints, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are required to report greenhouse gas emissions, energy data and other related information to a variety of entities, and to comply with the wider obligations of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. Potential risks might be incurred if we were not able to measure, track and disclose information accurately and in a timely manner, and the EU Emissions Trading Scheme could result in increased operational costs if we were unable to meet our compliance obligations and exceed our emission allocations. There is also a risk of new environmental regulation in many geographies where we operate, including the EU, U.S. and China, among others. For example, in May 2014, the State Council of the People’s Republic of China issued a plan that sets compulsory reduction goals related to pollutant emissions, energy consumption and carbon emissions that could require additional investment, business capabilities or operational changes. 13 Table of Contents If any of our products is defective or found to contain contaminants, we may be subject to product recalls or other liabilities. We take precautions to ensure that our beverage products are free from contaminants and that our packaging materials (such as bottles, crowns, cans and other containers) are free of defects. Such precautions include quality-control programs and various technologies for primary materials, the production process and our final products. We have established procedures to correct problems that are detected. In the event that contamination or a defect does occur in the future, it may lead to business interruptions, product recalls or liability, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain insurance policies against certain product liability (but not product recall) risks, we may not be able to enforce our rights in respect of these policies, and, in the event that contamination or a defect occurs, any amounts that we recover may not be sufficient to offset any damage we may suffer, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. Our future success depends significantly on our ability to protect our current and future brands and products and to defend our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. We have been granted numerous trademark registrations covering our brands and products and have filed, and expect to continue to file, trademark and patent applications seeking to protect newly developed brands and products. We cannot be sure that trademark and patent registrations will be issued with respect to any of our applications. There is also a risk that we could, by omission, fail to renew a trademark or patent on a timely basis or that our competitors will challenge, invalidate or circumvent any existing or future trademarks and patents issued to, or licensed by, us. Although we have taken appropriate action to protect our portfolio of intellectual property rights (including trademark registration and domain names), we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate proprietary rights. Moreover, some of the countries in which we operate offer less efficient intellectual property protection than is available in Europe or the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights against infringement or misappropriation, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, and in particular, on our ability to develop our business. We rely on key third parties, including key suppliers, and the termination or modification of the arrangements with such third parties could negatively affect our business. We rely on key third-party suppliers, including third-party suppliers for a range of raw materials for beer and non-beer such as malted barley, corn grits, corn syrup, rice, hops, water, flavored concentrate, fruit concentrate, sugar and sweeteners, and for packaging material, such as glass, PET and aluminum bottles, aluminum or steel cans and kegs, labels, plastic crates, metal and plastic closures, folding cartons, cardboard products and plastic films. We seek to limit our exposure to market fluctuations in these supplies by entering into medium- and long-term fixed-price arrangements. We have a limited number of suppliers of aluminum cans and glass bottles. Consolidation of the aluminum can industry and glass bottle industry in certain markets in which we operate has reduced local supply alternatives and increased the risk of disruption to aluminum can and glass bottle supplies. Although we generally have other suppliers of raw materials and packaging materials, the termination of or material change to arrangements with certain key suppliers, disagreements with suppliers as to payment or other terms, or the failure of a key supplier to meet our contractual obligations or otherwise deliver materials consistent with current usage would or may require us to make purchases from alternative suppliers, in each case at potentially higher prices than those agreed with that supplier, and this could have a material impact on our production, distribution and sale of beer, other alcoholic beverages and soft drinks and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 14 Table of Contents A number of our key brand names are both licensed to third-party brewers and used by companies over which we do not have control. For instance, our global brand Stella Artois is licensed to third parties in, among other countries, Algeria, Australia, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Israel, New Zealand and Romania, and another global brand, Corona, is perpetually licensed to Constellation Brands, Inc. for marketing and sales in 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia and Guam, as well as related production in Mexico for those marketing and sales efforts. Budweiser is also licensed to third parties in, among other countries, Argentina, Japan, South Korea, Panama, Italy, Ireland and Spain. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—8. Licensing” for more information in this respect. We monitor brewing quality to ensure our high standards, but, to the extent that one of these key licensed brand names is subject to negative publicity, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. For certain packaging supplies and raw materials, we rely on a small number of important suppliers. If these suppliers became unable to continue to meet our requirements, and we are unable to develop alternative sources of supply, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. The consolidation of retailers may adversely affect us. The retail industry in Europe and in many countries in which we operate continues to consolidate. Large retailers may seek to improve profitability and sales by asking for lower prices or increased trade spending. The efforts of retailers could result in reduced profitability for the beer industry as a whole and indirectly adversely affect our financial results. We could incur significant costs as a result of compliance with, and/or violations of or liabilities under, various regulations that govern our operations. Our business is highly regulated in many of the countries in which we or our licensed third parties operate. The regulations adopted by the authorities in these countries govern many parts of our operations, including brewing, marketing and advertising (in particular to ensure our advertising is directed to individuals of legal drinking age), environmental protection, transportation, distributor relationships and sales. We may be subject to claims that we have not complied with existing laws and regulations, which could result in fines and penalties or loss of operating licenses. We are also routinely subject to new or modified laws and regulations with which we must comply in order to avoid claims, fines and other penalties, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also be subject to laws and regulations aimed at reducing the availability of beer and other alcoholic beverage products in some of our markets to address alcohol abuse and other social issues. There can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, or that such regulation will not interfere with our beer, other alcoholic beverage and soft drink businesses. Certain U.S. states and various countries have adopted laws and regulations that require deposits on beverages or establish refillable bottle systems. Such laws generally increase beer prices above the costs of deposit and may result in sales declines. Lawmakers in various jurisdictions in which we operate continue to consider similar legislation, the adoption of which would impose higher operating costs on us while depressing sales volume. The level of regulation to which our businesses are subject can be affected by changes in the public perception of beer, other alcoholic beverage and soft drink consumption. In recent years, there has been increased social and political attention in certain countries directed at the beer, other alcoholic beverage and soft drink industries, and governmental bodies may respond to any public criticism by implementing further regulatory restrictions on advertising, opening hours, drinking ages or marketing activities (including the marketing or selling of beer at sporting events). Such public concern and any resulting restrictions may cause the social acceptability of beer, other alcoholic beverages or soft drinks to decline significantly and consumption trends to shift away from these products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For common regulations and restrictions on us, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—11. Regulations Affecting Our Business” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review—A. Key Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Governmental Regulations.” 15 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risk of litigation. We are now and may in the future be party to legal proceedings and claims and significant damages may be asserted against us. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal and Arbitration Proceedings” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review—H. Contractual Obligations and Contingencies—Contingencies” and note 30 to our audited consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2015 and 2014, and for the three years ended 31 December 2015, for a description of certain material contingencies which we believe are reasonably possible (but not probable) to be realized. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, it is possible that we might incur liabilities as a consequence of the proceedings and claims brought against us, including those that are not currently believed by us to be reasonably possible. Moreover, companies in the alcoholic beverage industry and soft drink industry are, from time to time, exposed to collective suits (class actions) or other litigation relating to alcohol advertising, alcohol abuse problems or health consequences from the excessive consumption of beer, other alcoholic beverages and soft drinks. As an illustration, certain beer and other alcoholic beverage producers from Brazil, Canada, Europe and the United States have been involved in class actions and other litigation seeking damages for, among other things, alleged marketing of alcoholic beverages to underage consumers. If any of these types of litigation were to result in fines, damages or reputational damage for us, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Our failure to satisfy our obligations under the Grupo Modelo settlement agreement could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The settlement agreement we reached with the U.S. Department of Justice in relation to the combination with Grupo Modelo includes a three-year transition services agreement to ensure the smooth transition of the operation of the Piedras Negras brewery as well as certain distribution guarantees for Constellation Brands, Inc. in the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia and Guam. Our compliance with our obligations under the settlement agreement is monitored by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Monitoring Trustee appointed by it. Were we to fail to fulfill our obligations under the settlement, whether intentionally or inadvertently, we could be subject to monetary fines. See “Item 10. Additional Information—C. Material Contracts—Grupo Modelo Settlement Agreement.” The beer and beverage industry may be subject to adverse changes in taxation. Taxation on our beer, other alcoholic beverage and soft drink products in the countries in which we operate is comprised of different taxes specific to each jurisdiction, such as excise and other indirect taxes. In many jurisdictions, excise and other indirect duties, including legislation regarding minimum alcohol pricing (MUP), make up a large proportion of the cost of beer charged to customers. Increases in excise and other indirect taxes applicable to our products either on an absolute basis or relative to the levels applicable to other beverages tend to adversely affect our revenue or margins, both by reducing overall consumption of our products and by encouraging consumers to switch to other categories of beverages. These increases also adversely affect the affordability of our products and our profitability. In 2014, Russia, Ukraine, Australia, South Africa, Egypt and Singapore, among others, increased beer excise taxes. In Russia, between 2009 and 2014, the beer excise rate increased nine times—from RUB 2/liter to RUB 18/liter. Similarly, in Ukraine, from 2013 to 2014, the beer excise tax rate increased 42.5% to UAH 1.24/liter in 2014 and in 2015 an additional 5% excise tax was imposed on retailers of certain products, including beer and other alcoholic beverages. As of 1 January 2016, the beer excise tax in Ukraine doubled to UAH 2.48/liter. These tax increases have resulted in significant price increases in both countries, and continue to reduce our sales of beer. See “—Negative publicity, perceived health risks and associated governmental regulation may harm our business.” 16 Table of Contents In the United States, the brewing industry is subject to significant taxation. The U.S. federal government currently levies an excise tax of USD 18 per barrel (equivalent to approximately 117 liters) on beer sold for consumption in the United States. All states also levy excise and/or sales taxes on alcoholic beverages. From time to time there are proposals to increase these taxes, and in the future these taxes could increase. Increases in excise taxes on alcohol could adversely affect our United States business and its profitability. Minimum pricing is another form of fiscal regulation that can affect our profitability. In 2012, the Scottish Government legislated to introduce a minimum unit price for alcoholic beverages (although its implementation was blocked by a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union in December 2015). In November 2012, the UK Government published for consultation its own proposal to introduce a minimum unit price for alcoholic beverages, and Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland are also considering introducing a cross-border minimum unit price for alcoholic beverages; following the consultation, in July 2013, the UK government decided not to pursue minimum pricing. In October 2013, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland decided to implement a cross-border minimum unit price for alcoholic beverages calculated on a sale price per gram of alcohol, although the question of legality under EU law remains to be determined. Proposals to increase excise or other indirect taxes, including legislation regarding minimum alcohol pricing, may result from the current economic climate and may also be influenced by changes in the public perception regarding the consumption of beer, other alcoholic beverages and soft drinks. To the extent that the effect of the tax reforms described above or other proposed changes to excise and other indirect duties in the countries in which we operate is to increase the total burden of indirect taxation on our products, the results of our operations in those countries could be adversely affected. In addition to excise and other indirect duties, we are subject to income and other taxes in the countries in which we operate. There can be no assurance that the operations of our breweries and other facilities will not become subject to increased taxation by national, local or foreign authorities or that we and our subsidiaries will not become subject to higher corporate income tax rates or to new or modified taxation regulations and requirements. For example, the work being carried out by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development on base erosion and profit shifting or ongoing initiatives at the European Union level (including the proposed draft anti-tax avoidance directive published in January 2016), as a response to increasing globalization of trade and business operations, could result in changes in tax treaties, the introduction of new legislation, updates to existing legislation, or changes to regulatory interpretations of existing legislation, any of which could impose additional taxes on businesses. Any such increases or changes in taxation would tend to adversely impact our results of operations. We are exposed to antitrust and competition laws in certain jurisdictions and the risk of changes in such laws or in the interpretation and enforcement of existing antitrust and competition laws. We are subject to antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and in a number of jurisdictions we produce and/or sell a significant portion of the beer consumed. Consequently, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny in certain of these jurisdictions. For instance, our Brazilian listed subsidiary, Ambev, has been subject to monitoring by antitrust authorities in Brazil (see “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal and Arbitration Proceedings—Ambev and its Subsidiaries—Antitrust Matters”). There can be no assurance that the introduction of new competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, the interpretation of existing antitrust or competition laws or the enforcement of existing antitrust or competition laws, or any agreements with antitrust or competition authorities, against us or our subsidiaries, including Ambev, will not affect our business or the businesses of our subsidiaries in the future. Our operations are subject to environmental regulations, which could expose us to significant compliance costs and litigation relating to environmental issues. Our operations are subject to environmental regulation by national, state and local agencies, including, in certain cases, regulations that impose liability without regard to fault. These regulations can result in liability that might adversely affect our operations. The environmental regulatory climate in the markets in which we operate is becoming stricter, with a greater emphasis on enforcement. 17 Table of Contents While we have continuously invested in reducing our environmental risks and budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not incur substantial environmental liability or that applicable environmental laws and regulations will not change or become more stringent in the future. Our subsidiary, Ambev, operates a joint venture in Cuba, in which the Government of Cuba is its joint venture partner. Cuba remains subject to comprehensive economic and trade sanctions by the United States and operations in Cuba may adversely affect our reputation and the liquidity and value of our securities. On 28 January 2014, a subsidiary of our subsidiary Ambev acquired from us a 50% equity interest in Cerveceria Bucanero S.A., a Cuban company in the business of producing and selling beer. Consequently, we indirectly own through our subsidiary Ambev a 50% equity interest in Cerveceria Bucanero S.A. The other 50% equity interest is owned by the Government of Cuba. Cerveceria Bucanero S.A. is operated as a joint venture in which Ambev appoints the general manager. Cerveceria Bucanero S.A.’s main brands are Bucanero and Cristal, but it also imports and sells in Cuba other brands produced by certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. In 2015, Cerveceria Bucanero S.A. sold 1.5 million hectoliters, representing about 0.3% of our global volume of 457 million hectoliters for the year. Although Cerveceria Bucanero S.A.’s production is primarily sold in Cuba, a small portion of its production is exported to and sold by certain distributors in other countries outside Cuba (but not in the United States). The U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. Commerce Department together administer and enforce broad and comprehensive economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy towards Cuba. Although our operations in Cuba through our subsidiary Ambev are quantitatively immaterial, our overall business reputation may suffer or we may face additional regulatory scrutiny as a result of our activities in Cuba based on the identification of Cuba as a target of U.S. economic and trade sanctions. In addition, the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (known as the “Helms-Burton Act”) authorizes private lawsuits for damages against anyone who traffics in property confiscated without compensation by the Government of Cuba from persons who at the time were, or have since become, nationals of the United States. Although this section of the Helms-Burton Act is currently suspended by discretionary presidential action, the suspension may not continue in the future. Claims accrue notwithstanding the suspension and may be asserted if the suspension is discontinued. The Helms-Burton Act also includes a section that authorizes the U.S. Department of State to prohibit entry into the United States of non-U.S. persons who traffic in confiscated property, and corporate officers and principals of such persons, and their families. In 2009, we received notice of a claim purporting to be made under the Helms-Burton Act relating to the use of a trademark by Cerveceria Bucanero S.A., which is alleged to have been confiscated by the Cuban government and trafficked by us through our ownership and management of this company. Although we have attempted to review and evaluate the validity of the claim, due to the uncertain underlying circumstances, we are currently unable to express a view as to the validity of such claim or as to the claimants’ standing to pursue it. We may not be able to recruit or retain key personnel. In order to develop, support and market our products, we must hire and retain skilled employees with particular expertise. The implementation of our strategic business plans could be undermined by a failure to recruit or retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of senior employees, including in acquired companies. We face various challenges inherent in the management of a large number of employees across diverse geographical regions. It is not certain that we will be able to attract or retain key employees and successfully manage them, which could disrupt our business and have an unfavorable material effect on our financial position, income from operations and competitive position. 18 Table of Contents We are exposed to labor strikes and disputes that could lead to a negative impact on our costs and production level. Our success depends on maintaining good relations with our workforce. In several of our operations, a majority of our workforce is unionized. For instance, a majority of the hourly employees at our breweries in several key countries in different geographies are represented by unions. Our production may be affected by work stoppages or slowdowns as a result of disputes under existing collective labor agreements with labor unions. We may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate our collective labor agreements when they expire and may face tougher negotiations or higher wage and benefit demands. Furthermore, a work stoppage or slowdown at our facilities could interrupt the transport of raw materials from our suppliers or the transport of our products to our customers. Such disruptions could put a strain on our relationships with suppliers and clients and may have lasting effects on our business even after the disputes with our labor force have been resolved, including as a result of negative publicity. Our production may also be affected by work stoppages or slowdowns that affect our suppliers, distributors and retail delivery/logistics providers as a result of disputes under existing collective labor agreements with labor unions, in connection with negotiations of new collective labor agreements, as a result of supplier financial distress, or for other reasons. A strike, work stoppage or slowdown within our operations or those of our suppliers, or an interruption or shortage of raw materials for any other reason (including, but not limited to, financial distress, natural disaster or difficulties affecting a supplier) could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition and ability to operate our business. Our United States organization has approximately 5,500 hourly brewery workers represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Their compensation and other terms of employment are governed by collective bargaining agreements negotiated between us and the Teamsters, which expire on 28 February 2019. Information technology failures could disrupt our operations. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. A significant portion of the communication between our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. As with all large systems, our information systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers or other security issues. We depend on information technology to enable us to operate efficiently and interface with customers, as well as to maintain in-house management and control. We have also entered into various information technology services agreements pursuant to which our information technology infrastructure is outsourced to leading vendors. In addition, the concentration of processes in shared services centers means that any technology disruption could impact a large portion of our business within the operating Zones served. If we do not allocate, and effectively manage, the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. As with all information technology systems, our system could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. We take various actions with the aim of minimizing potential technology disruptions, such as investing in intrusion detection solutions, proceeding with internal and external security assessments, building and implementing disaster recovery plans and reviewing risk management processes. Notwithstanding our efforts, technology disruptions could disrupt our business. For example, if outside parties gained access to confidential data or strategic information and appropriated such information or made such information public, this could harm our reputation or our competitive advantage. More generally, technology disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 19 Table of Contents While we continue to invest in new technology monitoring and cyber-attack prevention systems, we nonetheless experience attempted breaches of our technology systems and networks from time to time. In 2015, as in previous years, we experienced attempted breaches of our technology systems and networks. None of the attempted breaches of our systems (as a result of cyber-attacks, security breaches or similar events) had a material impact on our business or operations or resulted in material unauthorized access to our data or our customers’ data. Natural and other disasters could disrupt our operations. Our business and operating results could be negatively impacted by natural, social, technical or physical risks such as a widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), earthquakes, hurricanes, flooding, fire, water scarcity, power loss, loss of water supply, telecommunications and information technology system failures, cyber-attacks, labor disputes, political instability, military conflict and uncertainties arising from terrorist attacks, including a global economic slowdown, the economic consequences of any military action and associated political instability. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient. We purchase insurance for director and officer liability and other coverage where required by law or contract or where considered to be in our best interest. Even though we maintain these insurance policies, we self-insure most of our insurable risk. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, this could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by an auditor who is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in Belgium, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Belgian authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of PCAOB inspections in Belgium prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audits and quality-control procedures of any auditors operating in Belgium, including our auditors. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in Belgium makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality-control procedures as compared to auditors outside of Belgium that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Risks Relating to the Transaction The announced proposed acquisition of SABMiller plc and divestiture of SABMiller plc’s interest in MillerCoors LLC expose us to risks related to the closing of the transactions, significant costs related to, and potential difficulties in, the integration of SABMiller into our existing operations and the extraction of synergies from the acquisition, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. On 11 November 2015, our board and the board of SABMiller announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended acquisition by us of the entire issued and to be issued share capital of SABMiller. The Transaction will be implemented through a series of stages including the acquisition of SABMiller by Newbelco. We will merge into Newbelco so that, following completion of the Transaction, Newbelco will be the new holding company for the Combined Group. 20 Table of Contents Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of all pre-conditions to making a formal offer and conditions to completion, the Transaction is currently expected to be completed in the second half of 2016. We are exposed to risks related to the closing of the Transaction, significant costs related to the Transaction and potential difficulties in the integration of SABMiller into our existing operations and the creation of synergies from the acquisition of SABMiller, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, as discussed in more detail below. The Transaction remains subject to the review and authorization of various regulatory authorities which could impose conditions that could have an unfavorable impact on the Combined Group. Completion of the Transaction is subject to a number of pre-conditions and conditions. These pre-conditions and conditions include the receipt of regulatory clearances in the European Union, the United States, South Africa, China, Colombia, Ecuador, Australia, India and Canada and certain other jurisdictions. On the same day that we announced the Transaction, we announced the sale of SABMiller’s interest in MillerCoors LLC (a joint venture in the U.S. and Puerto Rico between Molson Coors Brewing Company (“Molson Coors”) and SABMiller) and SABMiller’s portfolio of Miller brands outside the U.S. to Molson Coors Brewing Company (the “MillerCoors divestiture”). On 10 February 2016, we announced that we received a binding offer from Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd. (“Asahi”) to acquire SABMiller’s Peroni, Grolsch and Meantime brand families and their associated business (excluding certain rights in the U.S.), in each case with the goal of proactively addressing potential regulatory considerations regarding our proposed acquisition of SABMiller. In addition, on 2 March 2016, we announced that we had entered into an agreement to sell SABMiller’s 49% interest in China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd. (“CR Snow”) to China Resources Beer (Holdings) Co. Ltd., which currently owns 51% of CR Snow. The terms and conditions of any authorizations, approvals and/or clearances to be obtained, or any other action taken by a regulatory authority following the closing of the Transaction, may require, among other things, the divestiture of assets or businesses of either the AB InBev Group or the SABMiller Group to third parties, changes to operations in connection with the completion of the Transaction, restrictions on the ability of the Combined Group to operate in certain jurisdictions following the completion of the Transaction, restrictions on the AB InBev Group and the SABMiller Group combining our operations in certain jurisdictions or other commitments to regulatory authorities regarding ongoing operations. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on the business of the Combined Group and diminish substantially the synergies and the advantages which we expect to achieve from the Transaction. Furthermore, we may not be able to effect any divestitures or other commitments at the time intended, or at all, or at the desired price, especially in challenging market conditions. Any event that prevents or delays the integration of the AB InBev Group and the SABMiller Group businesses and operations in any jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on the AB InBev Group and/or the Combined Group and their results of operations. In addition, divestitures and other commitments made in order to obtain regulatory approvals, if any, may have an adverse effect on the Combined Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. These or any conditions, remedies or changes also could have the effect of delaying completion of the Transaction, reducing the anticipated benefits of the Transaction, reducing the price we are able to obtain for such disposals or imposing additional costs on or limiting the Combined Group’s revenues following the completion of the Transaction, any of which might have a material adverse effect on the Combined Group following the completion of the Transaction. Ultimately, there is no guarantee that the regulatory pre-conditions and conditions will be satisfied (or waived, if applicable). Failure to satisfy any of the conditions may result in the Transaction not being completed, and, in certain circumstances, including if any regulatory pre-condition or condition is not satisfied by the specified long stop date of 11 May 2017 (unless extended), we may be required to pay or procure the payment to SABMiller of a break payment of USD 3.0 billion. 21 Table of Contents In addition to regulatory authorizations, the Transaction is subject to the satisfaction (or waiver, where applicable) of a number of other conditions. In addition to the pre-conditions and conditions relating to regulatory authorities described above, the Transaction is subject to the satisfaction (or waiver, where applicable) of a number of other conditions as described in the Rule 2.7 Announcement, (which is filed as Exhibit 15.3 to this Form 20-F), including the scheme of arrangement in the UK becoming effective; the Belgian voluntary takeover offer closing and our merger into Newbelco being completed; the necessary shareholder resolutions of AB InBev and Newbelco being passed by the relevant shareholders; the shares of Newbelco having been approved for admission to listing and trading in Belgium, South Africa and Mexico; and the approval for the admission to trading of Newbelco’s American Depositary Shares on the New York Stock Exchange. There is no guarantee that these (or any other) conditions will be satisfied (or waived, if applicable). Failure to satisfy any of the conditions may result in the Transaction not being completed, and, in certain circumstances, we may be required to pay or procure the payment to SABMiller of a break payment of USD 3.0 billion, including if our specified shareholder resolutions are not passed by the relevant date or our board withdraws its recommendation to our shareholders to vote in favor of our specified shareholder resolutions and is permitted to withdraw from the Transaction. Any resolution proposed at the meeting of SABMiller shareholders convened by the UK court to approve the UK scheme of arrangement must be approved by a majority in number of the SABMiller shareholders (or any such class or classes of them) present and voting at the meeting, either in person or by proxy, representing not less than 75% of the relevant SABMiller ordinary shares voted at such meeting (the “UK Scheme”). There is no guarantee that the required level of shareholder support will be achieved. Although SABMiller’s two largest shareholders (Altria Group, Inc. and BEVCO Ltd.) have each provided irrevocable undertakings (which are filed as Exhibits 4.29 and 4.30 to this Form 20-F) to vote to implement the Transaction, in certain circumstances such irrevocable undertakings may cease to be binding (as described further in paragraph 19 and Appendix 4 to the Rule 2.7 Announcement (which is filed as Exhibit 15.3 to this Form 20-F)). In addition, it will be necessary for SABMiller to determine with the UK court whether, for the purposes of voting at such meeting, all of the SABMiller shareholders (including Altria Group, Inc. and BEVCO Ltd.) should be treated as one class (in which case they would vote together in one meeting) or as part of a separate class or classes (in which case the different classes would vote separately). The UK court will consider whether the legal rights of the SABMiller shareholders under the UK Scheme are sufficiently similar or whether a difference in legal rights makes it more appropriate for particular SABMiller shareholders to be distinguished as a separate class. Furthermore, even if we desired to invoke a condition to prevent completion of the Transaction, under the UK City Takeover Code on Takeovers and Mergers we are only able to invoke such conditions if the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers is satisfied that the circumstances giving rise to such conditions not being satisfied are of material significance to us in the context of the Transaction (subject to limited exceptions). The UK Panel has historically determined that this is a high threshold, so even if some event were to occur which we believe means that a condition is not satisfied (such as a material adverse change affecting the SABMiller Group), we may not be permitted to invoke such condition and may be required to proceed with completion of the Transaction in any event. Change of control, prohibition on merger or other restrictive provisions in agreements and instruments to which members of the AB InBev Group and/or the SABMiller Group are a party may be triggered upon the completion of the Transaction and may lead to adverse consequences for the Combined Group, including the loss of significant contractual rights and benefits, the possible termination of material agreements or the requirement to repay outstanding indebtedness. Members of both the AB InBev Group and the SABMiller Group are parties to joint ventures, distribution and other agreements, guarantees and instruments which may contain change of control or other restrictive provisions that may be triggered (or be alleged to be triggered) upon the completion of the Transaction. Some of these agreements may be material and some may contain change of control provisions which provide for or permit, or which may be alleged to provide for or permit, the termination of the agreement or other remedies upon the occurrence of a change of control of one of the parties or, in the case of certain debt instruments, entitle holders to 22 Table of Contents require repayment of all outstanding indebtedness owed to them. In addition, we have issued debt instruments and are party to other agreements that may contain restrictions on the merger of, or cessation of business or dissolution of, AB InBev. Certain of these provisions may be triggered (or be alleged to be triggered) upon our merger into Newbelco. If, upon review of these agreements, we and SABMiller determine that such provisions can be waived by the relevant counterparties, we may decide to seek such waivers. In the absence of such waivers, the operation of the change of control or other restrictive provisions, if any, could result in the loss of material contractual rights and benefits, the termination of the relevant agreements or the requirement to repay outstanding indebtedness. Alternatively, in respect of certain debt instruments, the parties may decide to seek to effect certain restructuring transactions or redeem the instruments in accordance with their terms. Both of these approaches may be subject to uncertainty and may result in significant costs to the Combined Group. In addition, various compensation and benefit programs with members of SABMiller senior management and directors and other SABMiller employees contain change of control provisions providing for vesting of stock options and other share-based awards, accelerated payouts under certain pension and bonus plans and tax gross-ups to be paid following the completion of the Transaction. We have taken into account potential payments arising from the operation of change of control provisions, including compensation arising from change of control provisions in employment agreements, but such payments may exceed our expectations. We intend for the Transaction to be implemented through a complex cross-border structure and failure to implement the Transaction in this manner may result in significant costs to the Combined Group. It is intended that the Transaction will be implemented by way of a three-stage process involving: (i) a UK law court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the UK Companies Act 2006; (ii) a Belgian law voluntary cash takeover offer pursuant to the Belgian Law of 1 April 2007 on takeover bids and the Belgian Royal Decree of 27 April 2007 on takeover bids; and (iii) a Belgian law reverse merger under the Belgian Companies Code (which is a merger in accordance with Belgian law whereby the holding company is merged into its subsidiary, with the subsidiary being the surviving company). This complex structure will involve a series of steps, in multiple legal jurisdictions. The implementation of the proposed structure is dependent on the actions and approval of a number of third parties, including governmental and regulatory bodies, which are beyond our control, and on regulations and legislation in force as of the date we announced the proposed agreement with SABMiller. It may eventually not be possible, whether as a result of a change in law or otherwise, to implement the Transaction as currently intended, but we may be required to complete the Transaction. On 11 November 2015, we entered into a tax matters agreement (which is filed as Exhibit 4.27 to this Form 20-F) (the “Tax Matters Agreement”) with Altria Group Inc., pursuant to which we (and, after completion of the Transaction, Newbelco) will provide assistance and co-operation to, and will give certain representations and undertakings to, Altria Group Inc. in relation to certain matters that are relevant to Altria under U.S. tax legislation, including the structure and implementation of the Transaction. If certain of these representations or undertakings are breached, including, potentially, because the structure of the Transaction is required to be amended, we (and, after the completion of the Transaction, Newbelco) may be required to indemnify Altria for certain tax costs it may incur in relation to the Transaction. Disruption from the Transaction may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees, suppliers, associates or joint venture partners as well as governments in the territories in which the Combined Group will operate. The uncertainty regarding the effect of the Transaction and any related asset divestitures could cause disruptions to our business and the business of the SABMiller Group. These uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our business and the SABMiller Group’s business and our operations and could cause customers, distributors, other business partners and other parties that have business relationships with us or the SABMiller Group to defer the consummation of other transactions or other decisions concerning our or the SABMiller Group’s businesses, or to seek to change existing business relationships with these companies. 23 Table of Contents The success of the Combined Group will depend, among other things, on its capacity to retain certain key employees of ours and the SABMiller Group. The key employees of either us or the SABMiller Group could leave their employment because of the uncertainties about their roles in the Combined Group, difficulties related to the Transaction, or because of a general desire not to remain with the Combined Group. Moreover, the Combined Group will have to address issues inherent in the management of a greater number of employees in some very diverse geographic areas. Therefore, it is not certain that the Combined Group will be able to attract or retain its key employees and successfully manage them, which could disrupt its business and have an unfavorable material effect on its financial position, its income from operations and on the competitive position of the Combined Group. We may not be able to successfully integrate the SABMiller Group or realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the Transaction, including as a result of a delay in completing the Transaction or difficulty in integrating the businesses of the companies involved, and any such benefits and synergies will be offset by the significant fees and other costs we incur in connection with the Transaction. Achieving the advantages of the Transaction will depend partly on the rapid and efficient combination of the AB InBev Group’s activities with the SABMiller Group, two groups of considerable size which functioned independently and were incorporated in different countries, with geographically dispersed operations, and with different business cultures and compensation structures. The integration process involves inherent costs and uncertainties. These uncertainties are exacerbated because the SABMiller Group is active in new or developing markets in which we do not have significant operations, and because we had little opportunity to perform detailed due diligence on the SABMiller Group prior to or after the announcement of the proposed Transaction. As compared to us, the Combined Group may face increased exposure to certain risks as a result of the Transaction. For example: • the SABMiller Group has entered into important strategic partnerships in a number of Eurasian and African countries. The Combined Group may face challenges in continuing to develop collaborative relationships with these partners in order to ensure that decisions are taken in such partnerships which promote the strategic and business objectives of the Combined Group. • the SABMiller Group operates its business and markets its products in emerging markets that, as a result of political and economic instability, a lack of well-developed legal systems and potentially corrupt business environments, present it with economic and operational risks. The SABMiller Group is not subject to the same laws relating to corruption that we are subject to, and there is a risk that improper actions taken by its employees or representatives of its subsidiaries, affiliates, associates, joint ventures or other business interests may expose the Combined Group to potential liability and the costs associated with investigating potential misconduct. In addition, any press coverage associated with such misconduct, even if unwarranted or baseless, could damage the reputation and sales of the Combined Group. Furthermore, there is no assurance that the Transaction will achieve the benefits we anticipate from the integration. We believe that the consideration expected to be paid is justified, in part, by the procurement and engineering savings, brewery and distribution efficiency gains, best practices sharing and other cost savings, synergies and benefits that we expect to achieve by combining the SABMiller Group’s operations with ours. However, these expected savings, gains, synergies and other benefits may not be achieved, and the assumptions upon which we determined the consideration paid to the former SABMiller shareholders in connection with the Transaction may prove to be incorrect. The implementation of the Transaction and the successful integration of the SABMiller Group’s operations into ours will also require a significant amount of management time and, thus, may affect or impair management’s ability to run the businesses effectively during the period prior to the completion of the Transaction and the integration of the businesses thereafter. 24 Table of Contents In addition, we and the SABMiller Group have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction fees and other costs associated with the Transaction. These fees and costs are substantial and include financing, financial advisory, legal and accounting fees, and expenses. In addition, the Combined Group may face additional unanticipated costs as a result of the integration of us and the SABMiller Group, which would offset any realized synergy benefits resulting from the Transaction. Finally, the Tax Matters Agreement we have entered into with Altria Group Inc. (which is filed as Exhibit 4.27 to this Form 20-F) imposes some limits on the ability of the Combined Group to effect some group reorganizations after the completion of the Transaction, which may limit our capacity to integrate the SABMiller Group’s operations into ours. The size of the Combined Group, contractual limitations it is subject to and its position in the markets in which it operates may decrease our ability to successfully carry out further acquisitions and business integrations. In the past, we and the SABMiller Group have made acquisitions of, investments in and joint ventures and similar arrangements with, other companies and businesses. Much of our growth in recent years is attributable to such transactions, including the combination of Interbrew and Ambev in 2004, the combination of InBev and Anheuser-Busch in 2008 and the combination of AB InBev and Grupo Modelo in 2013. The Combined Group may be unsuccessful in the implementation of future acquisitions, investments or joint ventures or alliances. We cannot enter into further transactions unless we can identify suitable candidates and agree on the terms with them. The size of the Combined Group and its position in the markets in which it operates may make it harder to identify suitable candidates, including because it may be harder for the Combined Group to obtain regulatory approval for future transactions. If appropriate opportunities do become available, the Combined Group may seek to acquire or invest in other businesses; however, any future acquisition may pose regulatory, anti-trust and other risks. In addition, after completion of a transaction, we may be required to integrate the acquired companies, business or operations into our existing operations. Such transactions may also involve the assumption of certain actual or potential, known or unknown liabilities, which may have a potential impact on our financial risk profile. These risks and limitations may limit the Combined Group’s ability to implement its global strategy and its ability to achieve future business growth. The Transaction is, and may in the future be, subject to litigation attempting to enjoin its completion. We are now and may in the future be party to legal proceedings and claims related to the Transaction. For example, certain private parties have brought a legal challenge to the Transaction, and the court in this private action could enjoin the parties from completing the Transaction or could delay it. For further information, see “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal and Arbitration Proceedings—Anheuser-Busch InBev—SABMiller Transaction.” We believe the claims in the current litigation are without merit and we intend to defend against current and any future legal proceedings vigorously. An impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have recognized significant goodwill on our balance sheet through acquisitions. For example, as a result of the combination with Grupo Modelo in 2013, we recognized USD 19.6 billion of goodwill on our balance sheet and recorded several brands from the Grupo Modelo business (including brands in the Corona brand family, among others) as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives with a fair value of USD 4.7 billion. Similarly, as a result of the 2008 Anheuser-Busch acquisition, we recognized USD 32.9 billion of goodwill on our balance sheet and recorded several brands from the Anheuser-Busch business (including brands in the Budweiser brand family, among others) as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives with a fair value of USD 21.4 billion. 25 Table of Contents Additionally, upon completion of the acquisition of SABMiller and its related transactions, we will recognize a significant amount of incremental goodwill on our balance sheet. Our accounting policy (and that of the Combined Group) considers brands and distribution rights for our own products as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, which are tested for impairment on an annual basis (or more often if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment loss may have been incurred) and not amortized. After the completion of the Transaction, we will record brands and other intangibles from the SABMiller business as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. Our current estimate of the fair value of such brands and other intangibles (which does not account for any possible divestitures other than the MillerCoors divestiture) is USD 21 billion. If the combination of the businesses meets with unexpected difficulties, or if the Combined Group’s business does not develop as expected, impairment charges may be incurred in the future that could be significant and that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As of 31 December 2015, goodwill amounted to USD 65.1 billion and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives amounted to USD 27.6 billion. If our business does not develop as expected, impairment charges may be incurred in the future that could be significant and that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Shares and American Depositary Shares The market price of our shares and ADSs may be volatile. The market price of our shares and ADSs may be volatile as a result of various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • market expectations for our financial performance; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition; • changes in the estimates of our results of operations by securities analysts; • potential or actual sales of blocks of our shares or ADSs in the market by any shareholder or short selling of our shares or ADSs. Any such transaction could occur at any time or from time to time, with or without notice; • the entrance of new competitors or new products in the markets in which we operate; • volatility in the market as a whole or investor perception of the beverage industry or of our competitors; and • the risk factors mentioned in this section. The market price of our shares and ADSs may be adversely affected by any of the preceding or other factors regardless of our actual results of operations and financial condition. Our controlling shareholder may use its controlling interest to take actions not supported by our other shareholders. As of 31 December 2015, our controlling shareholder, Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev, owned 41.28% of our voting rights (and Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev and certain other entities acting in concert with it (within the meaning of the Belgian Law of 1 April 2007 on public takeover bids and/or the Belgian Law of 2 May 2007 on disclosure of major holdings in issuers whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market and laying down miscellaneous provisions) held, in the aggregate, 52.77% of our voting rights), in each case based on the number of our shares outstanding on 31 December 2015 (see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—A. Major Shareholders”). Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev has the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence on the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including dividend policy, mergers, share capital increases, going-private transactions and other extraordinary transactions. See “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association and Other Share Information—Description of the Rights and Benefits Attached to Our Shares” for further information in this respect. 26 Table of Contents Upon the completion of the Transaction, Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev will remain the controlling shareholder of the Combined Group. Assuming no further issuances of our shares, that Newbelco issues 316,999,695 restricted shares (as described under “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review—A. Key Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Acquisitions, Divestitures and Other Structural Changes—Proposed Acquisition of SABMiller”) and based on our outstanding treasury shares as of 31 December 2015, it is expected that Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev will own Newbelco new ordinary shares representing 34.5% of the Combined Group’s voting rights. Furthermore, it is expected that the shareholders’ agreement and the voting agreement (or successors thereto) will continue to apply in respect of the Newbelco new ordinary shares upon completion of the Transaction, and that Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev and such other entities acting in concert (within the meaning of the Belgian Law of 1 April 2007 on public takeover bids and/or the Belgian Law of 2 May 2007 on disclosure of major holdings in issuers whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market and laying down miscellaneous provisions) would hold on the same basis, in aggregate, approximately 44.1% of the Combined Group’s voting rights. The interests and time horizons of Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev may differ from those of other shareholders. As a result of its influence on our business, Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev could prevent us from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would protect the interests of our other shareholders. For example, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control of Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV, even in the event that this change of control may benefit other shareholders generally. Similarly, Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev could prevent us from taking certain actions that would dilute its percentage interest in our shares, even if such actions would generally be beneficial to us and/or to other shareholders. These and other factors related to Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev’s holding of a controlling interest in our shares may reduce the liquidity of our shares and ADSs and their attractiveness to investors. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro, the South African rand, the Mexican peso and the U.S. dollar may increase the risk of holding our ADSs and shares. Our shares currently trade on Euronext Brussels in euros and we have secondary listings of our shares on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in South African rand and the Mexican Stock Exchange (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores) in Mexican pesos. Our ADSs trade on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro, the South African rand, the Mexican peso and the U.S. dollar may result in temporary differences between the value of our shares trading in different currencies, and between our shares and our ADSs, which may result in heavy trading by investors seeking to exploit such differences. Similarly, uncertainty over fiscal and budgetary challenges in the United States, South Africa, Mexico and/or Europe may negatively impact global economic conditions, and could trigger sharply increased trading and consequent market fluctuations, which would increase the volatility of, and may have an adverse effect upon, the price of our shares or ADSs. In addition, as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar, the euro, the South African rand and the Mexican peso, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of our ADSs would receive upon the sale in Belgium, South Africa or Mexico of any shares withdrawn from the American Depositary Receipt (“ADR”) depositary and the U.S. dollar equivalent of any cash dividends paid in euros on our shares represented by the ADSs could also decline. Future equity issuances may dilute the holdings of current shareholders or ADS holders and could materially affect the market price of our shares or ADSs. We may in the future decide to offer additional equity to raise capital or for other purposes. Any such additional offering could reduce the proportionate ownership and voting interests of holders of our shares and ADSs, as well as our earnings per share or ADS and net asset value per share or ADS, and any offerings by us or our main shareholders could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares and ADSs. 27 Table of Contents Investors may not be able to participate in equity offerings, and ADS holders may not receive any value for rights that we may grant. Our constitutional documents provide for preference rights to be granted to our existing shareholders unless such rights are disapplied by resolution of our shareholders’ meeting or the Board of Directors. Our shareholders’ meeting or Board of Directors may disapply such rights in future equity offerings. In addition, certain shareholders (including shareholders resident in, or citizens of, certain jurisdictions, such as the United States, Australia, Canada and Japan) may not be entitled to exercise such rights even if they are not disapplied unless the rights and related shares are registered or qualified for sale under the relevant legislative or regulatory framework. As a result, there is the risk that investors may suffer dilution of their shareholding should they not be permitted to participate in preference right equity or other offerings that we may conduct in the future. If rights are granted to our shareholders, but the ADR depositary is unable to sell rights corresponding to shares represented by ADSs that are not exercised by, or distributed to, ADS holders, or if the sale of such rights is not lawful or reasonably practicable, the ADR depositary will allow the rights to lapse, in which case ADS holders will receive no value for such rights. ADS holders may not be able to exercise their right to vote the shares underlying our ADSs. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the shares represented by our ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of a notice of any meeting of holders of our shares, the depositary will, if we so request, distribute to the ADS holders a notice which shall contain (i) such information as is contained in the notice of the meeting sent by us, (ii) a statement that the ADS holder as of the specified record date shall be entitled to instruct the ADR depositary as to the exercise of voting rights and (iii) a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders. Holders of ADSs may instruct the ADR depositary to vote the shares underlying their ADSs, but only if we ask the ADR depositary to ask for their instructions. Otherwise, ADS holders will not be able to exercise their right to vote, unless they withdraw our shares underlying the ADSs they hold. However, ADS holders may not know about the meeting far enough in advance to withdraw those shares. If we ask for the instructions of ADS holders, the depositary, upon timely notice from us, will notify ADS holders of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to them. We cannot guarantee ADS holders that they will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the ADR depositary to vote their shares. In addition, the ADR depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that ADS holders may not be able to exercise their right to vote, and there may be nothing they can do if the shares underlying their ADSs are not voted as requested. ADS holders may be subject to limitations on the transfer of their ADSs. ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the ADR depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when the books of the ADR depositary are closed or if such action is deemed necessary or advisable by the ADR depositary or by us because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body or commission or under any provision of the deposit agreement. Moreover, the surrender of ADSs and withdrawal of our shares may be suspended subject to the payment of fees, taxes and similar charges or if we direct the ADR depositary at any time to cease new issuances and withdrawals of our shares during periods specified by us in connection with shareholders’ meetings, the payment of dividends or as otherwise reasonably necessary for compliance with any applicable laws or government regulations. Shareholders may not enjoy under Belgian corporate law and our articles of association certain of the rights and protection generally afforded to shareholders of U.S. companies under U.S. federal and state laws and the NYSE rules. We are a public limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Belgium. The rights provided to our shareholders under Belgian corporate law and our articles of association differ in certain respects from the rights that you would typically enjoy as a shareholder of a U.S. company under applicable U.S. federal and/or state laws. 28 Table of Contents In general, the Belgian Corporate Governance Code is a code of best practice applying to Belgian listed companies on a non-binding basis. The Code applies a “comply or explain” approach, that is, companies may depart from the Code’s provisions if, as required by law, they give a reasoned explanation of the reasons for doing so. We are relying on a provision in the NYSE Listed Company Manual that allows us to follow Belgian corporate law and the Belgian Corporate Governance Code with regard to certain aspects of corporate governance. This allows us to continue following certain corporate governance practices that differ in significant respects from the corporate governance requirements applicable to U.S. companies listed on the NYSE. In particular, the NYSE rules require a majority of the directors of a listed U.S. company to be independent while, in Belgium, only three directors need be independent. Our board currently comprises four independent directors and ten non-independent directors. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Directors and Senior Management—Board of Directors.” The NYSE rules further require that each of the nominating, compensation and audit committees of a listed U.S. company be comprised entirely of independent directors. However, the Belgian Corporate Governance Code recommends only that a majority of the directors on each of these committees meet the technical requirements for independence under Belgian corporate law. All voting members of the Audit Committee are independent under the NYSE rules and Rule 10A-3 under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Our Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee have members who would not be considered independent under NYSE rules, and therefore our Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee would not be in compliance with the NYSE Corporate Governance Standards for domestic issuers in respect of the independence of these committees. However, both our Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee are composed exclusively of non-executive directors who are independent of management and whom we consider to be free of any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—C. Board Practices—General—Information about Our Committees.” Under Belgian corporate law, other than certain limited information that we must make public, our shareholders may not ask for an inspection of our corporate records, while under Delaware corporate law any shareholder, irrespective of the size of his or her shareholdings, may do so. Shareholders of a Belgian corporation are also unable to initiate a derivative action, a remedy typically available to shareholders of U.S. companies, in order to enforce a right of AB InBev, in case we fail to enforce such right ourselves, other than in certain cases of director liability under limited circumstances. In addition, a majority of our shareholders may release a director from any claim of liability we may have, including if he or she has acted in bad faith or has breached his or her duty of loyalty, provided, in some cases, that the relevant acts were specifically mentioned in the convening notice to the shareholders’ meeting deliberating on the discharge. In contrast, most U.S. federal and state laws prohibit a company or its shareholders from releasing a director from liability altogether if he or she has acted in bad faith or has breached his or her duty of loyalty to the company. Finally, Belgian corporate law does not provide any form of appraisal rights in the case of a business combination. For additional information on these and other aspects of Belgian corporate law and our articles of association, see “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association and Other Share Information.” As a result of these differences between Belgian corporate law and our articles of association, on the one hand, and U.S. federal and state laws, on the other hand, in certain instances, you could receive less protection as a shareholder of our company than you would as a shareholder of a U.S. company. As a “foreign private issuer” in the United States, we are exempt from a number of rules under the U.S. securities laws and are permitted to file less information with the SEC. As a “foreign private issuer,” we are exempt from certain rules under the Exchange Act, that impose certain disclosure obligations and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. Accordingly, there may be less publicly available information concerning us than there is for U.S. public companies. 29 Table of Contents It may be difficult for investors outside Belgium to serve process on or enforce foreign judgments against us. We are a Belgian public limited liability company. Certain of the members of our Board of Directors and Executive Board of Management and certain of the persons named herein are non-residents of the United States. All or a substantial portion of the assets of such non-resident persons and certain of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process upon such persons or on us or to enforce against them or us a judgment obtained in U.S. courts. Original actions or actions for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts relating to the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States are not directly enforceable in Belgium. The United States and Belgium do not currently have a multilateral or bilateral treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments, other than arbitral awards, in civil and commercial matters. In order for a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by U.S. courts based on civil liability to produce any effect on Belgian soil, it is accordingly required that this judgment be recognized or be declared enforceable by a Belgian court pursuant to the relevant provisions of the 2004 Belgian Code of Private International Law. Recognition or enforcement does not imply a review of the merits of the case and is irrespective of any reciprocity requirement. A U.S. judgment will, however, not be recognized or declared enforceable in Belgium if it infringes upon one or more of the grounds for refusal which are exhaustively listed in Article 25 of the Belgian Code of Private International Law. In addition to recognition or enforcement, a judgment by a federal or state court in the United States against us may also serve as evidence in a similar action in a Belgian court if it meets the conditions required for the authenticity of judgments according to the law of the state where it was rendered. 