ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investment in our common stock involves significant risk. You should carefully consider the information described in the following risk factors, together with the other information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial conditions, results of operation and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or a part of your investment in our common stock. Moreover, the risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Risks Related to Our Business Our near-term viability is substantially dependent on our ability to obtain accelerated approval from the FDA of Marqibo, our lead product candidate. A substantial portion of our current human and financial resources is focused on the development of Marqibo, our lead product candidate. In June 2010, we announced complete data from our global, registration-enabling Phase 2 clinical trial of Marqibo in adult Philadelphia chromosome negative ALL patients in second relapse or those who have progressed following two or greater prior lines of therapy. We refer to this Phase 2 clinical trial as the rALLy study. The primary outcome measure of the rALLy study was complete remission, or CR, or CR without full hematological recovery, or CRi. The complete data indicated that of the 65 evaluable subjects, an overall response was achieved in 23 subjects, or 35%, and a CR or CRi was achieved in 13 subjects, or 20%. The estimated median overall survival in complete responders was 7.7 months, with 5 subjects having an overall survival greater than one year. The estimated median duration of CR/CRi was 5.4 months. In November 2010, we met with the FDA concerning our plans to initiate a rolling submission new drug application, or NDA, seeking accelerated approval of Marqibo for the treatment of ALL in second relapse or those who have progressed following two or greater prior lines of therapy. At such meeting, we and the FDA agreed that we would simultaneously submit all modules of our proposed NDA as a complete, original, new drug application, as opposed to initiating a partial, rolling submission by the end of 2010. We anticipate submitting the complete NDA during the first half of 2011 and do not anticipate that submitting the NDA as a complete application, as opposed to submitting on a rolling basis, will have any effect on the timing of the complete NDA submission, completion of FDA’s review nor a potential accelerated approval. At a February 8, 2011 meeting of the FDA’s Oncology Drug Advisory Committee, the FDA indicated that a drug sponsor and FDA must agree on the feasibility and design of Phase 3 confirmatory studies as a necessary element in the NDA submission process for those sponsors seeking accelerated approval. According to the FDA, a sponsor seeking accelerated approval should not submit its NDA until the such agreement on Phase 3 confirmatory studies has been finalized. As such, our NDA submission may be delayed if the FDA does not accept our proposed confirmatory Phase 3 study. Additionally, there can be no guarantee that our submission will be accepted for filing by the FDA and, even if our planned NDA submission is accepted for filing, there is no assurance that the FDA will find that the data and other information relating to Marqibo included in such submission will be sufficient to support accelerated approval of Marqibo. If the final data is insufficient to support the submission of an NDA for accelerated approval, or if the FDA accepts our NDA for review but subsequently denies approval, our business would be substantially and adversely affected and we would be forced to significantly curtail or even cease our operations. If we receive accelerated approval of Marqibo, we will need to conduct a confirmatory Phase 3 trial in order to obtain full approval from the FDA. We anticipate initiating a confirmatory Phase 3 trial of Marqibo in ALL as early as this year. Even if we obtain accelerated approval of Marqibo for the treatment of ALL in second relapse or those who have progressed following two or greater prior lines of therapy, that approval may be revoked if the results of our planned confirmatory trial of Marqibo are insufficient to support continued marketing. We need to raise additional capital to fund our planned operations beyond 2011. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, we will have to discontinue our product development programs or relinquish our rights to some or all of our product candidates. The manner in which we raise any additional funds may affect the value of your investment in our common stock. We believe that our currently available capital is only sufficient to fund our operations through late 2011. Given our desired clinical development plans for the next 12 months, our financial statements reflect an uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern, which is reflected in the report from our auditors on the audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010. Accordingly, we need additional capital to fund our operations beyond 2011. Further, our available capital may be consumed sooner than we anticipate depending on a variety of factors, including: · costs associated with conducting our ongoing and planned clinical trials and regulatory development activities; · costs, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews; · costs of establishing arrangements for manufacturing our product candidates; 19 · costs associated with commercializing our lead programs, including establishing sales and marketing functions; · payments required under our current and any future license agreements and collaborations; · costs of obtaining, maintaining and defending patents on our product candidates; and · costs of acquiring any new drug candidates. Since we do not generate any recurring revenue, the most likely sources of such additional capital include private placements of our equity securities, including our common stock, preferred stock, debt financing or from a potential strategic licensing or collaboration transaction involving the rights to one or more of our product candidates. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will likely experience significant dilution. We may also grant future investors rights superior to those of our current stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies, product candidates or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we raise additional funds by incurring debt, we could incur significant interest expense and become subject to covenants in the related transaction documentation that could affect the manner in which we conduct our business. In June 2010, we entered into an investment agreement with certain investment funds affiliated with Warburg Pincus, LLC and Deerfield Management pursuant to which we sold an aggregate of 400,000 shares of our Series A-1 Preferred Stock for $100 per share. Under the Investment Agreement, the investors have the right to invest up to an additional $20 million prior to the time we have received regulatory approval to market one of our product candidates, and thereafter, up to an additional $40 million by purchasing shares of our Series A-1 Preferred Stock or Series A-2 Preferred Stock, as applicable. However, the investors have no obligation to make such additional investment. If the investors do not make an additional investment pursuant to the June 2010 investment agreement at times when we are in need of additional capital, then we will need to secure such additional capital from other sources. Beyond the investment agreement, however, we have no committed sources of additional capital and our access to funding is always uncertain. This uncertainty is exacerbated due to the ongoing global economic turmoil, which has continued to restrict access to the U.S. and international capital markets, particularly for small biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies like us. Accordingly, despite our ability to secure adequate capital in the past, there is no assurance that additional equity or debt financing will be available to us when needed, on acceptable terms or even at all. If we fail to obtain the necessary additional capital when needed, we will be forced to significantly curtail our planned research and development activities, which will cause a delay in our drug development programs. If we do not obtain additional capital before we have consumed our currently available resources, we may be forced to cease our operations altogether, in which case you will lose your entire investment in our company. We have a limited operating history and may not be able to commercialize any products, generate significant revenues or attain profitability. We do not generate significant recurring revenue and have incurred significant net losses in each year since our inception. We expect to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we had a net loss of $26.0 million and $24.1 million, respectively. Our net cash used in operations during the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, was approximately $25.7 million and $21.1 million, respectively. We expect our cash requirements to increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we: · continue to undertake clinical development of our current product candidates; · seek regulatory approvals for Marqibo and our other product candidates at the appropriate time in the future; · implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; · seek to acquire additional technologies to develop; and · hire additional personnel. We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future as we fund our operations and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve and maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing/partnering one or more of our product candidates, which success is not assured, we may not be able to generate significant revenues. Even if we do generate significant revenues, we may never achieve or maintain profitability. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. 20 If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business may be harmed. In the future, if we are able to advance Marqibo or our other product candidates to the point of, and thereafter through, clinical trials, we may need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities. Any future growth will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial resources. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize Marqibo and our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. We must manage our development efforts and clinical trials effectively, and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business may be harmed. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in preclinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing and sales and marketing. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area where we are headquartered, is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel is critical to our success. We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates, if approved. Even successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: · decreased demand for our product candidates; · injury to our reputation; · withdrawal of clinical trial participants; · withdrawal of prior governmental approvals; · costs of related litigation; · substantial monetary awards to patients; · product recalls; · loss of revenue; and · the inability to commercialize our product candidates. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with collaborators. We currently do not carry product liability insurance but instead maintain a $10 million clinical trial insurance policy for our ongoing clinical trials of our product candidates. Even if our agreements with any future collaborators entitle us to indemnification against damages from product liability claims, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. If we fail to acquire and develop other product candidates we may be unable to grow our business. Although we have no current plans to do so, we may in the future acquire rights to develop and commercialize additional product candidates. Because we currently neither have nor intend to establish internal research capabilities, we are dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic and other researchers to sell or license us their product candidates. The success of our strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire pharmaceutical product candidates. 21 Proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable product acquisition or license agreement is a lengthy and complex process. We compete for partnering arrangements and license agreements with pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, many of which have significantly more experience than us and have significantly more financial resources than we do. Our competitors may have stronger relationships with certain third parties with whom we are interested in partnering, such as academic research institutions, and may, therefore, have a competitive advantage in entering into partnering arrangements with those third parties. We may not be able to acquire rights to additional product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. We expect that any product candidate to which we acquire rights will require significant additional development and other efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. We do not currently have the capital and human resources available to develop additional product candidates and would need to obtain significant amounts of additional capital and personnel to do so. Further, all product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe or effective for approval by regulatory authorities. Even if our product candidates are approved, they may not be manufactured or produced economically or commercialized successfully. Risks Related to the Clinical Testing, Regulatory Approval and Manufacturing of Our Product Candidates If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to sell our lead product candidate, Marqibo, or any of our other product candidates, our business will suffer. We do not have the approval from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority needed to market any of our product candidates. With respect to Marqibo and any of our other product candidates, significant FDA regulatory risks exist which may prevent FDA approval of these drug candidates and thereby prevent their commercial use, as described below. Additionally, if Marqibo or any of our product candidates are approved by the FDA, such approval may be withdrawn by the FDA for a variety of reasons, including: · that clinical or other experience, tests, or other scientific data show that the drug is unsafe for use; · that new evidence of clinical experience or evidence from new tests, evaluated together with the evidence available to the FDA when the NDA was approved, shows that the drug is not shown to be safe for use under the approved conditions of use; · that on the basis of new information presented to the FDA, there is a lack of substantial evidence that the drug will have the effect it purports or is represented to have under the approved conditions of use; · that an NDA contains any untrue statement of a material fact; or · for a drug approved under the FDA’s accelerated approval regulations or as a fast track drug, if any required post-approval study is not conducted with due diligence or if such study fails to verify the clinical benefit of the drug. Other regulatory risks may arise as a result of a change in applicable law or regulation or the interpretation thereof, and may result in material modification or withdrawal of prior FDA approvals. The failure by Congress to timely approve a budget for the federal government and its agencies, including the FDA, could delay our ability to obtain accelerated approval of Marqibo. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by the federal agencies, including the FDA. A budget for the entire current federal fiscal year, which ends on September 30, 2011, has still not been approved. If the Congress cannot agree on a budget, or if the President vetoes a budget approved by the Congress, then the federal government may be shutdown and non-essential federal employees, including many FDA employees, may be furloughed. We may be required to provide additional information to the FDA prior to the time we plan to file our NDA for Marqibo, which information may need to be reviewed by the FDA. In addition, after we submit our NDA, the FDA staff will need to conduct a review of our NDA submission before it will file. Accordingly, a federal government shutdown may cause significant delays in the FDA’s ability to timely review and process our planned NDA submission, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our product candidates are in early stages of clinical trials, which are very expensive and time-consuming. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates could harm our business. Other than Marqibo, the other product candidates that we are developing, Menadione Topical Lotion, Alocrest or Brakiva, are in early stages of development and will require extensive clinical and other testing and analysis before we will be in a position to consider seeking FDA approval to sell such product candidates. In addition to the risks set forth above for Marqibo, which also apply to Menadione Topical Lotion, Alocrest and Brakiva, these product candidates also have additional risks as each is in an earlier stage of development and review. 22 Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time consuming and very expensive process and the results are inherently uncertain. The duration of clinical trials can vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. We estimate that clinical trials of our product candidates will take at least several years to complete. The completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or prevented by many factors, including: · delays in patient enrollment, and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; · difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; · poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; · safety issues, side effects, or other adverse events; · an inability to provide sufficient drug supply to the clinical trial sites; · results that do not demonstrate the safety or effectiveness of the product candidates; and · governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines. In conducting clinical trials, we may fail to establish the effectiveness of a compound for the targeted indication or discover that it is unsafe due to unforeseen side effects or other reasons. Even if our clinical trials are commenced and completed as planned, their results may not support our anticipated product candidate claims. Further, failure of product candidate development can occur at any stage of the clinical trials, or even thereafter, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. These problems could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials for our product candidates and could result in FDA, or other regulatory authorities, delaying approval of our product candidates for any or all indications. The results from preclinical testing and prior clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later or other larger clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after showing promising results in earlier clinical trials. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates will prevent us from receiving regulatory approval to market these product candidates and will negatively impact our business. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend or curtail our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the conduct of these clinical trials or in the composition, manufacture or administration of the product candidates. Accordingly, we cannot predict with any certainty when or if we will ever be in a position to submit an NDA for any of our product candidates, or whether any such NDA would ever be approved. If we do not obtain the necessary U.S. or foreign regulatory approvals to commercialize our product candidates, we will not be able to market and sell our product candidates. None of our product candidates have been approved for commercial sale in any country. FDA approval is required to commercialize all of our product candidates in the United States and approvals from the FDA equivalent regulatory authorities are required in foreign jurisdictions in order to commercialize our product candidates in those jurisdictions. We possess world-wide rights to develop and commercialize Marqibo and our other product candidates. In order to obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates, we must submit to the FDA an NDA, demonstrating that the product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use and otherwise meets the requirements of existing laws and regulations governing new drugs. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as preclinical studies, and human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials, as well as additional information and studies. Satisfaction of the FDA’s regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing as well as for other purposes. To date, none of our product candidates have been approved for sale in the United States or in any foreign market. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. Historically, only a small percentage of all drug candidates that start clinical trials are eventually approved by the FDA for sale. After clinical trials are completed, the FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may require us to conduct additional preclinical and clinical testing or to perform post-marketing studies. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: · delay or prevent commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenues from, our product candidates; · impose costly procedures on us; · reduce the potential prices we may be able to charge for our product candidates, assuming they are approved for sale; and 23 · diminish any competitive advantages that we may otherwise enjoy. Even if we comply with all FDA requests, the FDA may ultimately reject one or more of our NDAs. We cannot be sure that we will ever obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. Additionally, a change in applicable law or regulation, or the interpretation thereof, may result in material modification or withdrawal of prior FDA approvals. Failure to obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates will severely undermine our business by reducing our number of saleable products and, therefore, corresponding product revenues. If we do not complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, we will not be able to recover any of the substantial costs invested by us in the development of the product candidate. In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities before we can commercialize our drugs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize any of our product candidates for sale outside the United States. Our competitive position may be harmed if a competitor obtains orphan drug designation and approval for the treatment of ALL for a clinically superior drug. Orphan drug designation is an important element of our competitive strategy because the latest of our licensors’ patents for Marqibo expires in November 2021. In 2007, the FDA granted orphan drug designation for the use of Marqibo in treating adult ALL and adult metastatic uveal melanoma. The company that obtains the first FDA approval for a designated orphan drug for a rare disease generally receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the designated condition for a period of seven years. However, even though we obtained orphan drug status for Marqibo in the treatments noted, the FDA may permit other companies to market a drug for the same designated and approved condition during our period of orphan drug exclusivity if it can be demonstrated that the drug is clinically superior to our drug. This could create a more competitive market for us. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals for our products, the terms of approvals and ongoing monitoring and regulation of our products may limit how we manufacture and market our products, which could materially impair our ability to generate revenue. Even if regulatory approval is granted in the United States or in a foreign country, the approved product and its manufacturer, as well as others involved in the manufacturing and packaging process, remain subject to continual regulatory review and monitoring. Any regulatory approval that we receive for a product candidate may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed, or include requirements for potentially costly post-approval clinical trials. In addition, if the FDA and/or foreign regulatory agencies approve any of our product candidates, the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-marketing information on the product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements that may change over time. We and the manufacturers of our products, our suppliers and our manufacturers’ suppliers, and many aspects of the packaging are also required to comply with current good manufacturing practice regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture our products or their ingredients or certain packaging materials, and these facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspection. Discovery of problems with a product or manufacturer may result in restrictions or sanctions with respect to the product, manufacturer and relevant manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable foreign regulatory authorities, or if problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: · restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing process; · warning letters or untitled letters; · civil or criminal penalties or fines; · injunctions; · product seizures, detentions or import bans; · voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; · suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; · total or partial suspension of production and/or sale; and 24 · refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with the numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Because we are dependent on clinical research institutions and other contractors for clinical testing and for research and development activities, the timing and results of our clinical trials and such research activities are, to a certain extent, beyond our control. We depend upon independent investigators and collaborators, such as universities and medical institutions, to conduct our preclinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. These parties are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. These investigators may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. These collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of whom may compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. Our reliance on third parties to formulate and manufacture our product candidates exposes us to a number of risks that may delay the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our products or result in higher product costs. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing and do not intend to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own product candidates. We contract with one or more manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. If any of our product candidates receive FDA approval, we will rely on one or more third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following risks: · In connection with the manufacture of our Marqibo product candidate, we are dependent on a single source for many of the materials involved in its manufacture. To the extent there are any technical, regulatory, labor, capacity or other issues affecting such suppliers, our ability to manufacture adequate supplies of Marqibo may be severely and adversely affected. · Some of our other product candidates, including Marqibo, require complex materials to make saleable goods. As a result, our suppliers may have difficulty consistently meeting the applicable specifications for our product candidates, which could cause disruptions in our ability to produce an adequate supply of our drug products. · We may be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. · Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical and/or commercial needs, if any. · Our future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. · Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards, but we will be ultimately responsible for any of their failures. · If any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to the innovation. This may prohibit us from seeking alternative or additional manufacturers for our products. · Regulatory authorities outside the United States may request an independent body conduct compliance audits of our manufacturers. There can be no assurance of successful outcomes of these audits. 25 Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, the approval, if any, of our product candidates by the FDA, or the commercialization of our product candidates or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenues. Risks Related to Our Ability to Commercialize Our Product Candidates Our success depends substantially on our most advanced product candidate, Marqibo, which is still under development and requires further regulatory approvals. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize Marqibo alone or with a strategic partner, or experience significant delays in doing so, our ability to generate product revenue and our likelihood of success will be significantly diminished. In 2009, we completed enrollment of the rALLy study. We intend to use the results of the rALLy study to file a new drug application, or NDA, with the FDA under an “accelerated approval” pathway. We also plan to conduct a confirmatory Phase 3 clinical trial to commence as early as 2011. The design of this confirmatory study is still under review. A significant portion of our time and financial resources for at least the next twelve months will be used in the development of our Marqibo program. We anticipate that our ability to generate revenues in the near term will depend solely on the successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization of Marqibo or our ability to enter into a partnership or licensing agreement wherein we receive cash payments. If the time period required to obtain FDA approval of Marqibo extends beyond 2011, then we will need to obtain significant additional capital before we obtain FDA approval for an NDA in Marqibo. See “— Risks Related to Our Business —We need to raise additional capital to fund our planned operations beyond 2011….,” above. All of our other product candidates are in early stages of development. Any of our product candidates could be unsuccessful if they: · do not demonstrate acceptable safety and efficacy in preclinical studies or clinical trials or otherwise do not meet applicable regulatory standards for approval; · do not offer therapeutic or other improvements over existing or future therapies used to treat the same conditions; · are not capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs or pursuant to applicable rules and regulations; or · are not accepted in the medical community and by third-party payors. If we are unable to commercialize our product candidates, we will not generate product revenues. The results of our clinical trials to date do not guarantee that acceptable efficacy or safety will be shown. If we are unable either to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates successfully. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities nor do we currently have funds sufficient to develop these capabilities. To commercialize our product candidates, we must either develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which will be expensive and time consuming, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we decide to market any of our products directly, we must commit financial and managerial resources to develop marketing capabilities and a sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. Other factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our product candidates, if approved, directly and without strategic partners include: · our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; · the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; · the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and · unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. If we are not able to partner with a third party and are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would harm our business. If we rely on pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established distribution systems to market our products, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties which may not be successful and which will be only partially in our control. Our product revenues would likely be lower than if we marketed and sold our products directly. 26 The terms of our license agreements relating to intellectual property ownership rights may make it more difficult for us to establish collaborations for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. The terms of our license agreements obligate us to include intellectual property assignment provisions in any sublicenses or collaboration agreements that may be unacceptable to our potential sublicensees and partners. These terms may impede our ability to enter into partnerships for some of our existing product candidates. Under our license agreement with Tekmira, Tekmira will be the owner of patents and patent applications claiming priority to certain patents licensed to us, and we not only have an obligation to assign to Tekmira our rights to inventions covered by such patents or patent applications, but also, when negotiating any joint venture, collaborative research, development, commercialization or other agreement with a third party, to require such third party to do the same. Our license agreement with Elan relating to Marqibo, provides that Elan will own all improvements to the licensed patents or licensed know-how made by us or any of our sublicensees. Potential collaboration and commercialization partners for these product candidates may not agree to such intellectual property ownership requirements and therefore not elect to partner with us for these product candidates. If physicians and patients do not accept and use our product candidates, our ability to generate revenue from sales of our products will be materially impaired. Even if the FDA approves Marqibo or any of our product candidates, if physicians and patients do not accept and use them, our business will be adversely affected. Acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors including: · perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs; · pharmacological benefit and cost-effectiveness of our products relative to competing products; · availability of reimbursement for our products from government or other healthcare payors; · effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any; and · the price at which we sell our products. We are subject to uncertainty relating to reimbursement policies which, if not favorable for Marqibo or our other product candidates, could hinder or prevent their commercial success. Our ability to commercialize Marqibo or our earlier-stage product candidates successfully will depend in part on the coverage and reimbursement levels set by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. As a threshold for coverage and reimbursement, third-party payors generally require that drug products have been approved for marketing by the FDA. Third-party payors also are increasingly challenging the effectiveness of and prices charged for medical products and services. We may not obtain adequate third-party coverage or reimbursement for Marqibo or our other product candidates or we may be required to sell them at a discount. If approved by the FDA, we expect that private insurers will consider the efficacy, cost effectiveness and safety of Marqibo in determining whether to approve reimbursement for Marqibo and at what level. Obtaining these approvals can be a time consuming and expensive process. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we do not receive approval for reimbursement of Marqibo from private insurers on a timely or satisfactory basis. Our business could also be adversely affected if private insurers, including managed care organizations, the Medicare program or other reimbursing bodies or payors limit the indications for which Marqibo will be reimbursed to a smaller set than we believe it is effective in treating. In some foreign countries, particularly Canada and the countries of Europe, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to strict governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory approval and product launch. To obtain favorable reimbursement for the indications sought or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products, including Marqibo, to other available therapies. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable in any country in which reimbursement is sought, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. 27 We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of Marqibo and our future products due to the potential healthcare reforms discussed below, as well as the trend toward programs aimed at reducing health care costs, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. The market for our product candidates is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. If our product candidates receive FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. If approved, Marqibo will compete with unencapsulated vincristine, which is generic, other cytotoxic agents such as antimetabolites, alkylating agents, cytotoxic antibiotics, vinca alkyloids, platinum compounds and taxanes, and other cytotoxic agents that use different encapsulation technologies. These or other future competing products and product candidates may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs and have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: · developing drugs; · undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; · formulating and manufacturing drugs; and · launching, marketing and selling drugs. Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. Alternative technologies are being developed to treat cancer and immunological disease, several of which are in advanced clinical trials. In addition, companies pursuing different but related fields represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel, parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent the commercial success of Marqibo or our other product candidates. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform, as evidenced by the enactment in 2010 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Healthcare Act. Such government-adopted reform measures may adversely impact the pricing of healthcare products and services in the U.S. or internationally and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payors. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for our products which we believe are fair, and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, that relate to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing, may limit our potential revenue, and we may need to revise our research and development programs. As a result of the recently-passed healthcare legislation in the U.S., as well as fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities, the pricing and reimbursement environment presumably will change in the future and become more challenging. In addition, in some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The recent U.S. legislation and these proposed reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for Marqibo and our other potential products, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. 28 In addition, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 reforms the way Medicare will cover and reimburse for pharmaceutical products. This legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we may receive for our products. Other third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. It will be time consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicare and private payors. Our products may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. Further federal and state proposals and health care reforms are likely which could limit the prices that can be charged for the product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the recent healthcare reforms, by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or future legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. In September 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-marketing authority, including the authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA’s exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to assure compliance with post-approval regulatory requirements, and potential restrictions on the sale and/or distribution of approved products. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in large part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We have licensed and sublicensed from third parties rights to numerous issued patents and patent applications. To date, through our license agreements for Marqibo, Alocrest, Brakiva and Menadione Topical Lotion, we hold certain exclusive and co-owned patent rights, including rights under U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications. We also have patent rights to applications pending in several foreign jurisdictions. We have filed and anticipate filing additional patent applications both in the United States and internationally, as appropriate. The rights to product candidates that we acquire from licensors or collaborators are protected by patents and proprietary rights owned by them, and we rely on the patent protection and rights established or acquired by them. We generally do not unilaterally control, or do not control at all, the prosecution of patent applications licensed from third parties. Accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we may exercise over internally developed intellectual property. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Even if we are able to obtain patents, any patent may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. The existence of a patent will not necessarily protect us from competition. Competitors may successfully challenge our patents, produce similar drugs or products that do not infringe our patents or produce drugs in countries where we have not applied for patent protection or that do not respect our patents. Under our license agreements, we generally do not unilaterally control, or do not control at all, the enforcement of the licensed patents or the defense of third party suits of infringement or invalidity. Furthermore, if we become involved in any patent litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings, we will incur substantial expense and the efforts of our technical and management personnel will be significantly diverted. As a result of such litigation or proceedings we could lose our proprietary position and be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing and selling the affected products, incur significant damage awards, including punitive damages, or be required to seek third-party licenses that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain in part because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights, and we will not be able to ensure that: · we or our licensors or collaborators were the first to make the inventions described in patent applications; · we or our licensors or collaborators were the first to file patent applications for inventions; · others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights; 29 · any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; · any patents licensed or issued to us will provide a basis for commercially viable products or will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; · we will ultimately be able to enforce our owned or licensed patent rights pertaining to our products; · any patents licensed or issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented; · we will develop or license proprietary technologies that are patentable; or · the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and our inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, we require all of our employees to enter into agreements which prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired and our business and competitive position would suffer. Our license agreements relating to our product candidates may be terminated in the event we commit a material breach, the result of which would harm our business and future prospects. In the event any of our license agreements relating to our product candidates are terminated, we could lose all of our rights to develop and commercialize the applicable product candidate covered by such license, which would harm our business and future prospects. Our rights to Menadione Topical Lotion are governed by a license agreement with Albert Einstein College of Medicine, or AECOM, which provides that AECOM may terminate the agreement, after providing us with notice and an opportunity to cure, for our material breach or default, or upon our bankruptcy. Our rights to Marqibo, Alocrest and Brakiva are governed by a series of agreements which may be individually or collectively terminated, not only by Tekmira, but also by M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, British Columbia Cancer Agency or University of British Columbia under the underlying agreements governing the license or assignment of technology to Tekmira. Tekmira may terminate these agreements for our uncured material breach, for our involvement in a bankruptcy, for our assertion or intention to assert any invalidity challenge on any of the patents licensed to us for these products or for our failure to meet our development or commercialization obligations, including the obligations of continuing to sell each product in all major market countries after its launch. In the event that these agreements are terminated, not only will we lose all rights to these products, we will also have the obligation to transfer all of our data, materials, regulatory filings and all other documentation to our licensor, and our licensor may on its own exploit these products without any compensation to us, regardless of the progress or amount of investment we have made in the products. Third party claims of intellectual property infringement would require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from developing or commercializing our products. In order to protect or enforce patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties. Similarly, we may be sued by others. We also may become subject to proceedings conducted in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, including interference proceedings to determine the priority of inventions, or reexamination proceedings. In addition, any foreign patents that are granted may become subject to opposition, nullity, or revocation proceedings in foreign jurisdictions having such proceedings opposed by third parties in foreign jurisdictions having opposition proceedings. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property actions are costly and divert technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. No patent can protect its holder from a claim of infringement of another patent. Therefore, our patent position cannot and does not provide any assurance that the commercialization of our products would not infringe the patent rights of another. While we know of no actual or threatened claim of infringement that would be material to us, there can be no assurance that such a claim will not be asserted. If such a claim is asserted, there can be no assurance that the resolution of the claim would permit us to continue marketing the relevant product on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. If we do not successfully defend any infringement actions to which we become a party or are unable to have infringed patents declared invalid or unenforceable, we may have to pay substantial monetary damages, which can be tripled if the infringement is deemed willful, or be required to discontinue or significantly delay commercialization and development of the affected products. 30 Any legal action against us or our collaborators claiming damages and seeking to enjoin developmental or marketing activities relating to affected products could, in addition to subjecting us to potential liability for damages, require us or our collaborators to obtain licenses to continue to develop, manufacture or market the affected products. Such a license may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. An adverse determination in a proceeding involving our owned or licensed intellectual property may allow entry of generic substitutes for our products. Risks Related to Our Securities Our stock price has, and we expect it to continue to, fluctuate significantly, and the value of your investment may decline. From January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2010, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $4.00 per share to a low of $0.30 per share (as adjusted to give effect to our 1-for-4 reverse stock split in September 2010). The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. You might not be able to sell your shares of common stock at or above the offering price due to fluctuations in the market price of the common stock arising from changes in our operating performance or prospects. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. A variety of factors may affect our operating performance and cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. These include, but are not limited to: · announcements by us or our competitors of regulatory developments, clinical trial results, clinical trial enrollment, regulatory filings, product development updates, new products and product launches, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; · any intellectual property infringement, product liability or any other litigation involving us; · developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; · regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; · market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; · economic or other crises and other external factors; · actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in our results of operations; · departure of any of our key management personnel; or · sales of our common stock. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand of our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity or value of our common stock. If our results do not meet analysts’ forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline. Currently, we do not believe there are any securities analysts who cover us or our common stock. The lack of analyst coverage of our business and operations may decrease the public demand for our common stock, making it more difficult for you to resell your shares when you deem appropriate. To the extent we obtain an analyst following in the future, such analysts may provide valuations regarding our stock price and make recommendations whether to buy, hold or sell our stock. Our stock price may be dependent upon such valuations and recommendations. Analysts’ valuations and recommendations are based primarily on our reported results and their forecasts and expectations concerning our future results regarding, for example, expenses, revenues, clinical trials, regulatory marketing approvals and competition. Our future results are subject to substantial uncertainty, and we may fail to meet or exceed analysts’ forecasts and expectations as a result of a number of factors, including those discussed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. If our results do not meet analysts’ forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline as a result of analysts lowering their valuations and recommendations or otherwise. 31 We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. If we faced such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. Our common stock is considered a “penny stock.” The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. Because the market price of our common stock is currently less than $5.00 per share, and none of the specific exemptions are applicable, our common stock is considered a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling our common stock to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase our common stock. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell shares of our common stock. Because we do not expect to pay dividends, you will not realize any income from an investment in our common stock unless and until you sell your shares at profit. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends for the foreseeable future. You should not rely on an investment in our stock if you require dividend income. Further, you will only realize income on an investment in our shares in the event you sell or otherwise dispose of your shares at a price higher than the price you paid for your shares. Such a gain would result only from an increase in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. There may be issuances of shares of blank check preferred stock in the future. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which we have designated 1,100,000 shares as Series A-1 Preferred Stock and 400,000 shares as Series A-2 Preferred Stock. We currently have 412,562 shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock outstanding and no shares of Series A-2 Preferred Stock outstanding. Beyond our Series A-1 and Series A-2 Preferred Stock, our board of directors will have the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of our preferred shares, as well as the authority to issue such shares, without approval of our common stockholders. As a result, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that is senior to our common stock and that would grant to holders preferred rights to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividends, additional registration rights, anti-dilution protection, the right to the redemption to such shares, together with other rights, none of which will be afforded holders of our common stock. Because our common stock is primarily traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, the volume of shares traded and the prices at which such shares trade may result in lower prices than might otherwise exist if our common stock was traded on a national securities exchange. We were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market in September 2009 and trading in our common stock has since been conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Stocks traded on the OTC Bulletin Board are often less liquid than stocks traded on national securities exchanges, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also in terms of delays in the timing of transactions and reduced coverage of us by security analysts and the media. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained if our common stock were traded on a national securities exchange, and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 