ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Any new or changes made to laws, regulations, card network association rules or other industry standards affecting our business may have an adverse impact on our financial results. We are subject to numerous regulations that affect the electronic payments industry. Regulation and proposed regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with applicable regulations may have an adverse effect on our business, including the limitation, suspension or termination of services provided to, or by, third parties, and the imposition of penalties, including fines. We are also subject to U.S. financial services regulations, numerous consumer protection laws, escheat regulations, and privacy and information security regulations, among other laws, rules and regulations. Changes to legal rules and regulations, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a negative financial effect on the Company. We are also subject to the rules of Visa, MasterCard and various other credit and debit networks. Furthermore, we are subject to the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008, which requires information returns to be filed by merchant acquiring entities each calendar year. Interchange fees, which are typically paid by the acquirer to the issuer in connection with transactions, are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory, and legislative scrutiny. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which was signed into law in July 2010, significantly changes the U.S. financial regulatory system, including by regulating and limiting certain debit card fees charged by certain issuer banks and allowing merchants to offer discounts for different payment methods, as well as other measures. This regulation took effect beginning in October 2011. Since October 2011 when the regulations became effective, the Company’s revenues have been reduced as a result of lower interchange fees mandated on regulated debit transactions. Correspondingly, the Company has experienced a reduction in interchange expense. Other potential effects of Dodd-Frank Act, such as merchant card acceptance behavior, competition among merchant acquirers and issuer actions in response to changes in the market place are difficult to estimate. Regulatory actions such as those described above, even if not directed at us, may require us to make significant efforts to change our products and services and may require that we change how we price our services to customers. Furthermore, regulatory actions may cause changes in business practices by us and other industry participants which could affect how we market, price and distribute our products and services. These regulations may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business or operations, either directly or indirectly. 9 Table of Contents We have faced, and may face in the future, significant chargeback liability and liability for merchant or customer fraud, which we may not be able to accurately anticipate. We have potential liability for chargebacks associated with the transactions we process. If a billing dispute between a merchant and a cardholder is not ultimately resolved in favor of the merchant, the disputed transaction is “charged back” to the merchant’s bank and credited to the account of the cardholder. If we or our sponsoring banks are unable to collect the chargeback from the merchant’s account, or, if the merchant refuses or is financially unable (due to bankruptcy or other reasons) to reimburse the merchant’s bank for the chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder’s bank. We also have potential liability for losses caused by fraudulent card-based payment transactions. Card fraud occurs when a merchant’s customer uses a stolen card (or a stolen card number in a card-not-present transaction) to purchase merchandise or services or when the perpetrator of the fraud gains access to certain merchant or cardholder information. In a traditional card-present transaction, if the merchant swipes the card, receives authorization for the transaction from the card issuing bank and verifies the signature on the back of the card against the paper receipt signed by the customer, the card issuing bank remains liable for any loss. In a fraudulent card-not-present transaction, even if the merchant receives authorization for the transaction, the merchant is liable for any loss arising from the transaction. Many of the small merchants that we serve are small businesses that transact a substantial percentage of their sales in card-not-present transactions over the Internet or in response to telephone or mail orders, which makes these merchants more vulnerable to customer fraud than larger merchants. Because substantially all of the merchants we serve are small merchants, we experience chargebacks arising from cardholder fraud more frequently than providers of payment processing services that service larger merchants. Merchant fraud occurs when a merchant, rather than a customer, knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit card or card number to record a false sales transaction, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Anytime a merchant is unable to satisfy a chargeback, we are responsible for that chargeback. We have established systems and procedures to detect and reduce the impact of merchant fraud, but we cannot be certain that these measures are or will be effective. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase our chargeback liability. Charges incurred by us relating to merchant losses were $3.9 million, or 0.6% of revenues in 2012, $3.8 million, or 0.5% of revenues in 2011, and $3.3 million, or 0.5% of revenues in 2010. We rely on bank sponsors, which have substantial discretion with respect to certain elements of our business practices, in order to process bankcard transactions. If these sponsorships are terminated and we are not able to secure or successfully migrate merchant portfolios to new bank sponsors, we will not be able to conduct our business. Because we are not a bank, we are unable to belong to and directly access the Visa and MasterCard bankcard associations. Visa and MasterCard operating regulations require us to be sponsored by a bank in order to process bankcard transactions. We are currently registered with Visa and MasterCard through the sponsorship of banks that are members of the card associations. The principal sponsoring bank through which we process the significant majority of our transactions is Wells Fargo. The initial term of our agreement with Wells Fargo lasts through December 2014 and will thereafter automatically continue unless either party provides the other at least six months notice of its intent to terminate. Our sponsoring banks may terminate their agreements with us if we materially breach the agreements and do not cure the breach within an established cure period, if our membership with Visa or MasterCard terminates, if we enter bankruptcy or file for bankruptcy, or if applicable laws or regulations, including Visa and MasterCard rules and regulations, change to prevent either the applicable bank or us from performing services under the applicable agreement. The agreements generally define a material breach as a failure to perform a material obligation under the agreement, specifically any breach of any warranty, representation or covenant or condition or term of the agreement, such as noncompliance with applicable laws, failure to provide relevant documentation as to certain account related data, failure to provide a marketing plan upon request, failure to maintain a transfer account or failure to pay for services. If these sponsorships are terminated and we are unable to secure an alternative bank sponsor, we will not be able to process bankcard transactions. Furthermore, our agreements with our sponsoring banks, including our agreement with Wells Fargo, provide the sponsoring banks with substantial discretion in approving certain elements of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants, the terms of our agreements with merchants, the processing fees that we charge, our customer service levels and our use of ISGs. We cannot guarantee that our sponsoring banks’ actions under these agreements will not be detrimental to us, nor can we provide assurance that any of our sponsoring banks will not terminate their sponsorship of us in the future or seek to modify their agreement with us in a manner that may adversely affect our ability to process bankcard transactions or otherwise operate our business. If we or our bank sponsors fail to adhere to the standards of the Visa and MasterCard payment card associations, our registrations with these associations could be terminated, and we could be required to stop providing payment processing services for Visa and MasterCard. Substantially all of the transactions we process involve Visa or MasterCard. If we or our bank sponsors fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa or MasterCard payment card associations, Visa or MasterCard could suspend or terminate our registration. The termination of our registration or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair our registration could prevent us from providing payment processing services. 10 Table of Contents We rely on third-party processors and service providers; if they fail or no longer agree to provide their services, our merchant relationships could be adversely affected and we could lose business. We rely on agreements with several large payment processing organizations to enable us to provide card authorization, data capture, settlement and merchant accounting services and access to various reporting tools for the merchants we serve. We also outsource to third parties other services, such as reorganizing and accumulating daily transaction data on a merchant-by-merchant and card issuer-by-card issuer basis and forwarding the accumulated data to the relevant bankcard associations. Many of these organizations and service providers are our competitors, and we do not have long-term contracts with most of them. Typically, our contracts with these third parties are for one-year and are subject to cancellation upon limited notice by either party. The termination by our service providers of their arrangements with us or their failure to perform their services efficiently and effectively may adversely affect our relationships with the merchants whose accounts we serve and may cause those merchants to terminate their processing agreements with us. To acquire and retain merchant accounts, we depend on ISGs that do not serve us exclusively. We rely on the efforts of ISGs to market our services to merchants seeking to establish a credit card processing relationship. ISGs are companies that seek to introduce to us, as well as our competitors, newly-established and existing small merchants, including retailers, restaurants and other service providers. Generally, our agreements with ISGs are not exclusive and they have the right to refer merchants to other providers of transaction payment processing services. Our failure to maintain our relationships with our existing ISGs and to recruit and establish new relationships with other ISGs could adversely affect our revenues and internal growth and increase our merchant attrition. We periodically experience increases in interchange and other related costs, and if we cannot pass these increases along to our merchants, our profit margins will decline. We pay interchange fees and assessments to issuing banks through the card associations for each transaction we process using their credit and debit cards. From time to time, the card associations increase the interchange fees that they charge processors and the sponsoring banks. At their sole discretion, our sponsoring banks have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees on to us. In addition, our sponsoring banks may seek to increase their Visa and MasterCard sponsorship fees to us, all of which are based upon the dollar amount of the payment transactions we process. If we are not able to pass these fee increases along to merchants through corresponding increases in merchant discount, our profit margins will decline. Unauthorized disclosure of merchant and cardholder data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to protracted and costly litigation and potential liability. We may collect and store limited data concerning merchants and their principal owners, including names, addresses, social security numbers, driver’s license numbers, checking and savings account numbers, and payment history records. In addition, we maintain a limited database of cardholder data relating to specific transactions, including card numbers and cardholder addresses, in order to process such cardholders’ transactions, for fraud prevention and other internal processes. If a third party penetrates our network security or otherwise misappropriates sensitive merchant or cardholder data, we could be subject to liability or business interruption. Although we generally require that our agreements with our ISGs and other service providers who may have access to merchant and customer data include confidentiality obligations that restrict these parties from using or disclosing any customer or merchant data except as necessary to perform their services under the applicable agreements, we cannot guarantee that these contractual measures will prevent the unauthorized disclosure of merchant or customer data by the ISGs or service providers. In addition, our agreements with financial institutions (as well as card association requirements) require us to take certain protective measures to ensure the confidentiality of merchant and consumer data. Any failure to adequately comply with these protective measures could result in fees, penalties and/or litigation. The loss of key personnel or damage to their reputations could adversely affect our relationships with ISGs, card associations, bank sponsors and our other service providers, which would adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon the continued services of our senior management and other key employees, all of whom have substantial experience in the payment processing industry and the small merchant markets in which we offer our services. In addition, our success depends in large part upon the reputation and influence within the industry of our senior managers who have, over the years, developed long standing and favorable relationships with ISGs, card associations, bank sponsors and other payment processing and service providers. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior managers or other key employees or damage to their reputations and influence within the industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our internal fraud investigation discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements,” certain of our senior officers were terminated or resigned in September 2012. We have acted expeditiously to replace these officers or to reassign their responsibilities to other employees, and we are not aware of any merchants or agents that have been lost or adversely affected as a result of their departures. However, there can be no assurance that their departures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. 11 Table of Contents Our reputation could be damaged as a result of negative publicity. We depend upon our reputation to compete for agents, merchants and employees. Unfavorable publicity can damage our reputation and negatively impact our economic performance. For example, the fraud committed by certain of our former employees and contractors as discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements,” could adversely impact our reputation. While we have made efforts to mitigate this risk by terminating those former employees who were responsible for such fraud, and by implementing new policies, procedures and internal controls, there can be no assurance that unfavorable publicity arising from the forgoing will not have a material adverse effect on our business. The payment processing industry is highly competitive and such competition is likely to increase, which may further adversely impact our pricing to merchants, and as a result, our profit margins. The market for credit and debit card processing services is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. The level of competition has increased in recent years as other providers of processing services have established a sizable market share in the small merchant processing sector. Some of our competitors are financial institutions, subsidiaries of financial institutions or well-established payment processing companies that have substantially greater capital, technological, management and marketing resources than we have. There are also a large number of small providers of processing services that provide various ranges of services to small and medium sized merchants. This competition may effectively limit the prices we can charge and requires us to control costs aggressively in order to maintain acceptable profit margins. Further, if the use of payment cards other than Visa or MasterCard, such as American Express, grows, or if there is increased use of certain debit cards, our average profit per transaction could be reduced. In addition, our competitors in recent years have consolidated as large banks merged and combined their networks. This consolidation may also require that we increase the consideration we pay for future acquisitions and could adversely affect the number of attractive acquisition opportunities presented to us. Our future competitors may develop or offer services that have price or other advantages over the services we provide. If they do so and we are unable to respond adequately, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Increased attrition due to an increase in closed merchant accounts and a decrease in merchant charge volume that we cannot anticipate or offset with new accounts may reduce our revenues. We experience attrition in merchant accounts and merchant charge volume in the ordinary course of business resulting from several factors, including but not limited to, business closures, transfers of merchants’ accounts to our competitors and account “closures” that we initiate due to heightened credit risks relating to, or contract breaches by, a merchant. We target small merchants that generally have a higher rate of business failure than larger businesses. During 2012, we experienced volume attrition ranging from 1.5% to 2.2% per month on our various merchant portfolios. Substantially all of our processing contracts with merchants can be terminated by either party on relatively short notice. Therefore, merchants could close their processing accounts with us and move to other providers with minimal financial liability or cost. In addition, we believe that challenging economic conditions have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect merchant charge volume, thereby increasing attrition. We cannot accurately predict the level of attrition in the future. Increased attrition in merchant accounts and merchant charge volume may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment that causes our merchants to experience adverse business conditions, as they may generate fewer transactions for us to process or may become insolvent, thereby increasing our exposure to chargeback liabilities. We believe that challenging economic conditions in recent years have caused some of the merchants we serve to experience difficulty in supporting their current operations and implementing their business plans, and any deterioration in economic conditions has the potential to negatively impact consumer confidence and consumer spending. If these merchants make fewer sales of their products and services, we will have fewer transactions to process, resulting in lower revenues. In addition, in the current difficult economic environment, the merchants we serve could be subject to a higher rate of business failure which could adversely affect our financial performance. We bear credit risk for chargebacks related to billing disputes between credit or debit card holders and bankrupt merchants. If a merchant seeks relief under bankruptcy laws or is otherwise unable or unwilling to pay, we may be liable for the full transaction amount of a chargeback. Our inability to adopt technology to meet changing industry or customer needs and trends may affect our competitiveness or demand for our products, which may adversely affect our operating results. Changes in technology may limit the competitiveness of and demand for our services. We operate in industries that are subject to technological advancements, developing industry standards and changing customer needs and preferences. In addition, our customers continue to adopt new technology for business and personal uses. We must anticipate and respond to these industry and customer changes in order to remain competitive within our markets. For example, our inability to adopt technological advancements surrounding point-of-sale technology available to merchants could have an adverse impact on our business. Our inability to respond to new industry standards, trends and technological advancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents There may be a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the credit card industry in general which could adversely affect our operating results. If consumers do not continue to use credit cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards and debit cards, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe future growth in the use of credit cards will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. Maintaining or increasing our profitability is dependent on consumers and businesses continuing to use credit cards at the same or greater rate than the current rate. Moreover, if there is an adverse development in the credit card industry in general, such as new legislation or regulation that makes it more difficult for our clients to do business, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Adverse conditions in industries in which we obtain a substantial amount of our bankcard processing volume, such as the fuel and restaurant industries, could negatively affect our operating results. We obtain a substantial amount of our bankcard processing volume from merchants in certain industries. For example, merchants in the fuel and restaurant industries represented 13.5% and 14.6% of our bankcard processing volume, respectively, in 2012. As a result, any adverse economic or other conditions in the fuel and restaurant industries, or other industries in which we obtain a substantial amount of our bankcard processing volume, could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results are subject to seasonality, and, if our revenues are below our seasonal norms during our historically stronger quarters, our financial results could be adversely affected. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues as a result of consumer spending patterns. Historically, revenues have been weaker during the first quarter of the calendar year and stronger during the second, third and fourth quarters. If, for any reason, our revenues are below seasonal norms during the second, third or fourth quarter, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our systems may fail due to factors beyond our control, which could interrupt our business, cause us to lose business and increase our costs. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our computer network systems, software and data centers. Our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur, and we do not presently have fully redundant systems to help ensure uninterrupted operations. Defects in our systems, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions or other difficulties could result in: • additional development costs; • diversion of technical and other resources; • loss of merchants; • loss of merchant and cardholder data; • negative publicity; • harm to our business or reputation; or • exposure to fraud losses or other liability. Material breaches in the security of our systems may have a significant effect on our business. The uninterrupted operation of our information systems and the confidentiality of the customer/ consumer information that resides on such systems are critical to the successful operations of our business. We have security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan designed to help ensure that our information systems will operate in the event of a breach or power failure. We also have what we believe to be sufficient security around our information systems to prevent unauthorized access to such systems. However, our visibility in the United States’ payment industry may attract hackers to conduct attacks on our systems that could compromise the security of our data. An information breach and theft of confidential information, such as credit or debit card numbers and related information, could have a significant impact on our business operations, including losing our customers’ confidence (and thus the loss of their business), as well as the imposition of fines and damages. New and potential governmental regulations designed to protect or limit access to consumer information could adversely affect our ability to provide, or the value of, the services we currently provide to our merchants. Due to the increasing public concern over consumer privacy rights, governmental bodies in the United States and abroad have adopted, and are considering adopting, additional laws and regulations restricting the purchase, sale and sharing of personal information about customers. For example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires non-affiliated third-party service providers to financial institutions to take certain steps to ensure the privacy and security of consumer financial information. We believe our present activities fall under exceptions to the consumer notice and opt-out requirements contained in this law for third-party service providers 13 Table of Contents to financial institutions. However, the laws governing privacy generally remain unsettled. Even in areas where there has been some legislative action, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other consumer statutes, it is difficult to determine whether and how existing and proposed privacy laws or changes to existing privacy laws will apply to our business. Limitations on our ability to access and use customer information could adversely affect our ability to provide the services we currently offer to our merchants or impair the value of these services. Several states have proposed legislation that would limit the use of personal information gathered using the Internet. Some proposals would require proprietary online service providers and website owners to establish privacy policies. Congress has also considered privacy legislation that could further regulate the use of consumer information obtained over the Internet or in other ways. Our compliance with these privacy laws and related regulations could materially affect our operations. Changes to existing laws or the passage of new laws could: • create uncertainty in the marketplace that could reduce demand for our services; • restrict or limit our ability to sell certain products and services to certain customers; • limit our ability to collect and to use merchant and cardholder data; or • increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased operating costs; Any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to pay federal, state or local taxes on transaction processing, it could negatively impact our profit margins. Transaction processing companies may become subject to federal, state or local taxation of certain portions of their fees charged to merchants for their services. Application of these taxes is an emerging issue in our industry and taxing jurisdictions have not yet adopted uniform positions on this topic. If we are required to pay such taxes and are unable to pass this tax expense through to our merchant clients, or are unable to produce increased cash flow to offset such taxes, these taxes would negatively impact our profit margins. The markets for the services that we offer may fail to expand or may contract, which could negatively impact our growth and profitability. Our growth and continued profitability depend on the acceptance of the services that we offer. If demand for our services decreases, our profit margins would be negatively impacted. Changes in technology may enable merchants and retail companies to directly process transactions in a cost-efficient manner without the use of our services. Additionally, uncertainty in the economy or a reduction in consumer spending may result in a decrease in the demand for our services. Further, if our customers make fewer sales of their products and services, we will have fewer transactions to process, resulting in lower revenue. Any decrease in the demand for our services for the reasons discussed above or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our growth and revenue. We are the subject of various legal proceedings which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We are involved in various litigation matters. The Company may, from time to time, also be involved in or be subject of governmental or regulatory agency inquiries or investigations. If the Company is unsuccessful in its defense in the litigation matters, or any other legal proceeding, it may be forced to pay damages or fines and/or change its business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information about the Company’s legal proceedings, see “Legal Proceedings.” Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our operating results. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent over 90% of our total assets at December 31, 2012. These assets consist primarily of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets associated with our merchant portfolios and acquisitions. We may engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets. If the carrying value of these assets is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a non-cash charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial statements. The Board of Directors of the Company concluded on November 1, 2012 that material weaknesses in the internal control over financial reporting exist at the Company, and consequently the Board of Directors determined that management’s report on internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, 2010, and 2011, included in the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years then 14 Table of Contents ended, should no longer be relied upon. These material weaknesses led to the need for the restatement of the Company’s financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010, and 2011 and for the first two quarters of 2012 and the failure of the Company to file on a timely basis its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the interim period ended September 30, 2012. These material weaknesses are discussed further within Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On January 29, 2013, the Company filed its amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A restating its financial statements and, on January 31, 2013, the Company filed its amended Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q/A for the periods ended March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012. The existence of one or more material weaknesses precludes a conclusion by management that a corporation’s internal control over financial reporting is effective. The Company and Holdings are currently in the process of remediating these material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting by, among other things, designing and implementing new procedures and controls throughout the Company and its subsidiaries and by strengthening our accounting department through the addition of new personnel and resources. If we fail to remediate these material weaknesses or fail to otherwise maintain effective controls over financial reporting in the future, it could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements that would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Management continues to devote significant time and attention to remediating these material weaknesses and improving our internal controls, and we expect to continue to incur costs associated with implementing appropriate processes, which could include fees for additional audit and consulting services, which could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. Risk Factors Relating to Acquisitions We have previously acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, other providers of payment processing services and portfolios of merchant processing accounts. These acquisitions entail additional risks to those inherent in the normal conduct of our business. Revenues and profits generated by acquired businesses or account portfolios may be less than anticipated, resulting in losses or a decline in profits, as well as potential impairment charges. In evaluating and determining the purchase price for a prospective acquisition, we estimate the future revenues and profits from that acquisition based on the historical revenue of the acquired provider of payment processing services or portfolio of merchant accounts. Following an acquisition, it is customary to experience some attrition in the number of merchants serviced by an acquired provider of payment processing services or included in an acquired portfolio of merchant accounts. Should the rate of post-acquisition merchant attrition exceed the rate we forecasted, the revenues and profits generated by the acquired providers of payment processing services or portfolio of accounts may be less than we estimated, which could result in losses or a decline in profits, as well as potential impairment charges. We may fail to uncover all liabilities of acquisition targets through the due diligence process prior to an acquisition, exposing us to potentially significant, unanticipated costs. Prior to the consummation of any acquisition, we perform a due diligence review of the business or portfolio of merchant accounts that we propose to acquire. Our due diligence review, however, may not adequately uncover all of the contingent or undisclosed liabilities we may incur as a consequence of the proposed acquisition. For example, in the past we were obligated to fund certain credits and chargebacks after discovering that a merchant account from an acquired merchant processing portfolio was in substantial violation of the Visa and MasterCard card association rules. In the future we may make acquisitions that may obligate us to make similar payments resulting in potentially significant, unanticipated costs. We may encounter delays and operational difficulties in completing the necessary transfer of data processing functions and connecting systems links required by an acquisition, resulting in increased costs for, and a delay in the realization of revenues from, that acquisition. The acquisition of a provider of payment processing services, as well as a portfolio of merchant processing accounts, requires the transfer of various data processing functions and connecting links to our systems and those of our third-party service providers. If the transfer of these functions and links does not occur rapidly and smoothly, payment processing delays and errors may occur, resulting in a loss of revenues, increased merchant attrition and increased expenditures to correct the transitional problems, which could preclude our attainment of, or reduce, our anticipated revenue and profits. Special non-recurring and integration costs associated with acquisitions could adversely affect our operating results in the periods following these acquisitions. In connection with some acquisitions, we may incur non-recurring severance expenses, restructuring charges or change of control payments. These expenses, charges or payments, as well as the initial costs of integrating the personnel and facilities of an acquired business with those of our existing operations, may adversely affect our operating results during the initial financial periods following an acquisition. In addition, the integration of newly acquired companies may lead to diversion of management attention from other ongoing business concerns. 15 Table of Contents Our facilities, personnel and financial and management systems may not be adequate to effectively manage the future expansion we believe necessary to increase our revenues and remain competitive. We anticipate that future expansion will be necessary in order to increase our revenues. In order to effectively manage our expansion, we may need to attract and hire additional sales, administrative, operations and management personnel. We cannot be sure that our facilities, personnel, financial and management systems and controls will be adequate to support the expansion of our operations, and provide adequate levels of service to our merchants and ISGs. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business could be harmed. Risk Factors Relating to Our Indebtedness The indentures governing the Notes, as well as other agreements governing our debt, include financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations. The indentures governing the Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain negative covenants customary for such financings, such as limiting our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions or restricted payments, make certain investments, incur or guarantee additional debt, create liens, agree to dividend and payment restrictions affecting restricted subsidiaries, consummate mergers, consolidations or other business combinations, designate subsidiaries as unrestricted, change our or their line of business, or enter into certain transactions with affiliates. The indentures governing the Notes also require us to make timely financial statement filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Senior Secured Credit Facilities have various financial and other covenants, including covenants that require iPayment to maintain minimum coverage ratios and a maximum senior leverage ratio. The Senior Secured Credit Facilities also require us to deliver financial statements to the administrative agent in a timely manner. We may also incur future debt obligations, which might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. In addition, iPayment’s ability to make distributions to Holdings is subject to restrictions in the indenture governing the 10.25% Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. The indenture governing the 10.25% Notes permits payment of dividends to Holdings to satisfy its interest payments on the 15.00%/15.00% Notes that are required to be paid in cash provided no event of default has occurred and is continuing. The indenture governing the 10.25% Notes otherwise limits the amount of “restricted payments,” including dividends, that iPayment can make to Holdings to a percentage of cumulative net income and proceeds of equity issuances, subject to satisfaction of certain other tests and certain exceptions. The Senior Secured Credit Facilities permit payment of dividends to Holdings to satisfy its interest payments on the 15.00%/15.00% Notes that are required to be paid in cash provided no event of default has occurred and is continuing. In November 2012, we were unable to satisfy the conditions precedent for borrowing under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities’ revolving credit facility in order to fund scheduled interest payments due on November 15, 2012 on the Company’s 10.25% Notes and Holdings’ 15.00%/15.00% Notes. As a result, on November 14, 2012, we entered into a waiver, consent and amendment (the “Waiver”) with a majority of the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The covenants in the indentures governing the Notes and in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, pursue available business opportunities or make payments upon the Notes. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be subject to events outside our control. Moreover, if we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result. If an event of default were to occur, the trustee under the indentures governing the Notes or the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts immediately due and payable. We cannot provide assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance the Notes or borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under the indentures governing the Notes or the Senior Secured Credit Facilities could also result in an event of default under other financing agreements. Our substantial debt, and any funds iPayment may distribute to Holdings to service its debt, could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations to holders of the Notes. We have a substantial amount of debt which requires significant interest payments. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $900.6 million of total debt outstanding, including $786.1 million, net of discount of $1.4 million, of indebtedness under the 10.25% Notes and Senior Secured Credit Facilities and $114.5 million, net of discount of $0.9 million, of indebtedness under the 15.00%/15.00% Notes. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to holders of the Notes. Our substantial debt, any new debt we may incur as described below and the resulting reduction in our available cash could also: • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; 16 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund investments, capital expenditures, working capital and for other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to make required future payments under our debt agreements, including the indentures governing the Notes and the credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt than we have; • create a perception that we may not continue to support and develop certain products or services; • increase our exposure to rising interest rates because a portion of our debt is at variable interest rates; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. In addition, iPayment is permitted to distribute funds to Holdings, its direct parent, to pay interest on the 15.00%/15.00% Notes. Through and including the interest payment date on May 15, 2015, at least 50% of the interest on the 15.00%/15.00% Notes must be paid in cash, and thereafter, subject to limited exceptions, 100% of the interest on the 15.00%/15.00% Notes generally must be paid in cash. The covenants in the indenture governing the 15.00%/15.00% Notes generally require Holdings to pay interest in cash to the extent permitted by iPayment’s debt agreements, including the indenture governing the 10.25% Notes. Holdings is a holding company with no material assets of its own, and iPayment will serve as the primary source of funds for payments on Holdings’ debt. Any funds that iPayment may distribute to Holdings to service Holdings’ debt could increase the risks associated with iPayment’s substantial debt, including making it more difficult for iPayment to satisfy its obligations to holders of the 10.25% Notes. We may incur more debt, which could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Subject to the limitations contained in the agreements governing our debt, we are able to incur significantly more debt in the future, including the ability to issue additional notes under the indentures governing the Notes. Although these agreements restrict us and our restricted subsidiaries from incurring additional debt, these restrictions are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. For example, the Senior Secured Credit Facilities provide for aggregate borrowings of up to $450.0 million, which are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets. Furthermore, the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indentures governing the Notes permit us to incur significant additional debt, including additional debt of Holdings’ subsidiaries that will be structurally senior to the 15.00%/15.00% Notes and additional secured debt that will be effectively senior to the Notes to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such debt. If we incur additional debt, the risks that we face as a result of our high leverage, including our possible inability to service our debt, could increase. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, including interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot be sure that any refinancing or sale of assets would be possible on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy Holdings’ obligations under the Notes and iPayment’s obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding debt would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all and negatively impact the market value of the Notes. In addition, if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations on our outstanding debt, the holders of such indebtedness would have the right to cause the entire outstanding amount of such indebtedness to become immediately due and payable. If the amounts outstanding under any of our debt instruments are accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets will be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to our debt holders, including holders of the Notes. All of Holdings’ operations, and substantially all of iPayment’s operations, are conducted at the subsidiary level, which may materially adversely affect our ability to service our debt. Our principal assets are the equity interests we hold, directly and indirectly, in our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and have no obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available to us for such payment, other than through guarantees of the 10.25% Notes, which may be released under certain circumstances. Because all of Holdings’ operations and most of 17 Table of Contents iPayment’s operations are conducted through our subsidiaries, our ability to service our debt depends upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings, or upon loans or other payments of funds, by our subsidiaries to us. Although the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indentures governing the Notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries to enter into covenant restrictions on their ability to pay dividends and make other payments to us, these limitations are subject to a number of significant qualifications, including exempting restrictions imposed under the indenture governing the 10.25% Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. If our subsidiaries do not have sufficient earnings or cannot distribute their earnings or other funds to us, our ability to service our debt may be materially adversely affected. Payment of principal and interest on the Notes will be effectively subordinated to our secured debt to the extent of the value of the assets securing that debt. The Notes are not secured. Therefore, the Notes will be effectively subordinated to claims of our secured creditors, and the guarantees of the 10.25% Notes will be effectively subordinated to the claims of the secured creditors of such guarantors. As of December 31, 2012, iPayment had approximately $387.5 million of total secured debt outstanding and $35.0 million of capacity under the revolving portion of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. iPayment’s obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities are guaranteed by Holdings and each of iPayment’s existing and future direct and indirect material domestic subsidiaries. Holders of our secured obligations, including obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, will have claims that are prior to claims of the holders of the Notes with respect to the assets securing those obligations. In the event of a liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, bankruptcy or any similar proceeding, our assets and those of the guarantors of the 10.25% Notes will be available to pay obligations on the Notes and the guarantees of the 10.25% Notes only after holders of our secured debt have been paid in full from the proceeds of the assets securing such debt. Accordingly, there may not be sufficient funds remaining to pay amounts due on all or any of the Notes. The 10.25% Notes and related guarantees are structurally subordinated to debt of iPayment’s nonguarantor subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2012, all of iPayment’s subsidiaries were guarantors of the 10.25% Notes. However, under certain circumstances, the guarantees of iPayment’s subsidiaries may be released and iPayment’s future subsidiaries may not be required to guarantee the 10.25% Notes. The 10.25% Notes will be structurally subordinated to all debt and other liabilities and commitments, including trade payables, of iPayment’s subsidiaries that do not guarantee the 10.25% Notes. iPayment relies substantially upon distributions from its subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations, including its obligations with respect to the 10.25% Notes. Any right of the holders of the 10.25% Notes to participate in the assets of a non-guarantor subsidiary upon any liquidation or reorganization of such subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. The 15.00%/15.00% Notes are structurally subordinated to indebtedness of its existing and future subsidiaries, including borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the 10.25% Notes. Holdings’ subsidiaries, including iPayment, do not currently guarantee its obligations under, and do not have any obligation with respect to, the 15.00%/15.00% Notes. Therefore, the 15.00%/15.00% Notes are structurally subordinated to all debt and liabilities of Holdings’ subsidiaries, including the 10.25% Notes and borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. The lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, the holders of the 10.25% Notes and all other creditors of Holdings’ subsidiaries, including trade creditors, have the right to be paid before Holdings from the assets of Holdings’ subsidiaries. In addition, if Holdings causes a subsidiary to pay a dividend or other distribution to enable it to make payments in respect of the 15.00%/15.00% Notes, and if such transfer were deemed to be a fraudulent transfer or an unlawful distribution, the holders of the 15.00%/15.00% Notes could be required to return the payment to (or for the benefit of) the creditors of such subsidiary, including lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and holders of the 10.25% Notes. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation or dissolution of a subsidiary, following payment by such subsidiary of its liabilities, such subsidiary may not have sufficient assets necessary to make any payments to Holdings as its direct or indirect equity holder or otherwise. This would adversely affect Holdings’ ability to make payments to the holders of the 15.00%/15.00% Notes. We may be unable to repay or repurchase the Notes at maturity. At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of the Notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest, will become due and payable. We may not have the funds to fulfill these obligations or the ability to refinance these obligations. If the maturity date occurs at a time when other arrangements prohibit us from repaying the Notes, we could try to obtain waivers of such prohibitions from the lenders and holders under those arrangements, or we could attempt to refinance the borrowings that contain the restrictions. In these circumstances, if we cannot obtain such waivers or refinance these borrowings, we would be unable to repay the Notes. Under certain circumstances, a court could cancel the Notes or void the guarantees of the 10.25% Notes under fraudulent conveyance laws. Our issuance of the Notes and the guarantees of the 10.25% Notes may be subject to review under federal or state fraudulent transfer laws, in particular due to the Equity Redemption and because all of the net proceeds from the offering of iPayment Investors’ PIK toggle notes were distributed to iPayment Investors’ equity holders and a portion of the proceeds of the offerings of the Notes were used to fund the Equity Redemption and to redeem and satisfy and discharge such PIK toggle notes. If we become a debtor in a case 18 Table of Contents under the United States Bankruptcy Code or encounter other financial difficulty, a court might avoid (that is, cancel) our obligations under the Notes. The court might do so if it finds that when we issued the Notes and the guarantees of the 10.25% Notes, (i) we or any guarantor of the 10.25% Notes issued the Notes or incurred the guarantee, as applicable, with actual intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or (ii) we or any guarantor of the 10.25% Notes received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for either issuing the Notes or incurring the guarantee, as applicable (which may be deemed to be zero, because we distributed a portion of the funds from the offerings of the Notes to iPayment Investors to fund the Equity Redemption and to redeem and satisfy and discharge the PIK toggle notes), and, in the case of (ii) only, one of the following is also true at the time thereof: • we or any guarantor of the 10.25% Notes were insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the Notes or the incurrence of the guarantee, as applicable; • the issuance of the Notes or the incurrence of the guarantee of the 10.25% Notes left us or any guarantor, as applicable, with an unreasonably small amount of capital to carry on our or its business; or • we or any guarantor of the 10.25% Notes intended to, or believed that we or such guarantor would, incur debts beyond our or such guarantor’s ability to pay such debts as they mature. The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws will vary depending upon the governing law. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if: • the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets; or • if the present fair saleable value of its assets were less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. For this analysis, “debts” include contingent and unliquidated debts. If a court avoided our obligations under the Notes and the obligations of all of the guarantors of the 10.25% Notes under their guarantees, holders of the Notes would cease to be our creditors or creditors of the guarantors and likely have no source from which to recover amounts due under the Notes. In addition, a court could avoid any payment by us or any guarantor of the 10.25% Notes pursuant to the Notes or a related guarantee, as the case may be, and require any payment to be returned to us or the guarantor, as the case may be, or to be paid to a fund for the benefit of our or the guarantor’s creditors. Further, the avoidance of the Notes could result in an event of default with respect to our other debt that could result in the acceleration of such debt. Even if the guarantee of a guarantor of the 10.25% Notes is not avoided as a fraudulent transfer, a court may subordinate the guarantee to that guarantor’s other debt. In that event, the guarantees of the 10.25% Notes would be structurally subordinated to all of that guarantor’s other debt. If the court were to avoid any guarantee, we cannot assure you that funds would be available to pay the 10.25% Notes from another guarantor or from any other source. The guarantees of the 10.25% Notes contain a provision intended to limit each guarantor’s liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing its guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer. However, this provision may automatically reduce one or more of the guarantor’s obligations to an amount that effectively makes the guarantee worthless and, in any case, this provision may not be effective to protect a guarantee from being avoided under fraudulent transfer laws. Our unrestricted subsidiaries under the indentures governing the Notes will not be subject to any of the covenants in the indentures and will not guarantee the 10.25% Notes, and we may not be able to rely on the cash flow or assets of those unrestricted subsidiaries to pay any of our debt, including the Notes. Our unrestricted subsidiaries will not be subject to the covenants under the indentures governing the Notes and will not guarantee the 10.25% Notes. As of December 31, 2012, none of our subsidiaries were unrestricted subsidiaries. However, subject to compliance with the covenants contained in the indentures governing the 10.25% Notes, we will be permitted to designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. If we designate a guarantor of the 10.25% Notes as an unrestricted subsidiary in accordance with the indenture governing the 10.25% Notes, the guarantee of the 10.25% Notes by such guarantor will be released under such indenture. The creditors of the unrestricted subsidiary and its subsidiaries will generally be entitled to payment of their claim from the assets of such unrestricted subsidiary and its subsidiaries before those assets would be available for distribution to us. In addition, our unrestricted subsidiaries may enter into financing arrangements that limit their ability to make loans or other payments to fund payments in respect of the Notes. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the cash flow or assets of our unrestricted subsidiaries will be available to pay any of our debt, including the Notes. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to finance the respective change of control offer required by the indentures governing the Notes. Upon the occurrence of a “change of control,” as defined in the indentures governing the Notes, we must offer to buy back the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, together with any accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of the repurchase. Our failure to purchase the Notes, or to give notice of the offer to repurchase the Notes, would be an event of default under the applicable indenture. 19 Table of Contents The definition of a change of control in the indentures includes a phrase relating to the sale, conveyance, transfer or lease of “all or substantially all” of our assets. There is no precise established definition of the phrase “all or substantially all” and it will likely be interpreted under New York State law, which is the law that governs the indentures, and will be dependent upon the particular facts and circumstances. As a result, there may be a degree of uncertainty in ascertaining whether a sale or disposition of “all or substantially all” of our capital stock or assets has occurred, in which case, the ability of a holder of the Notes to obtain the benefit of an offer to repurchase all or a portion of the Notes held by such holder may be impaired. If a change of control occurs, it is possible that we may not have sufficient assets at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of Notes or to satisfy all obligations under our other debt instruments. Holdings is a holding company for its subsidiaries, with no material operations of its own and only limited assets. See “Risk Factors — All of Holdings’ operations, and substantially all of iPayment’s operations, are conducted at the subsidiary level, which may materially adversely affect our ability to service our debt.” Debt of Holdings’ subsidiaries, including the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the 10.25% Notes, contains prohibitions and restrictions on dividends to Holdings, including for purposes of funding a change of control offer. In order to satisfy our obligations, we could seek to refinance our debt or obtain a waiver from the other lenders or the holders of the Notes. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain a waiver or refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our failure to pay the change of control purchase price when due will constitute an event of default under the respective indenture and give the holders of the Notes certain rights under such indenture. The same events constituting a change of control under the indentures may also constitute an event of default under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and permit the lenders thereunder to accelerate any and all outstanding debt. If such debt is not paid, the lenders may enforce security interests in the collateral securing such debt, thereby limiting our ability to raise cash to purchase the Notes and reducing the practical benefit to the holders of the Notes of the offer to purchase provisions of the indentures. The interests of our equity holders may not be aligned with the interests of the holders of the Notes. All of our issued and outstanding capital stock is held directly, in the case of Holdings, and indirectly, in the case of iPayment, by Carl A. Grimstad, iPayment’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Harold H. Stream, III, and certain entities and family trusts affiliated with Mr. Grimstad or Mr. Stream. Messrs. Grimstad and Mark C. Monaco, our Chief Financial Officer, are two of the three members of the boards of directors of iPayment and Holdings, along with John A. Vickers. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of Holdings’ equity holders could be in conflict with the interests of the holders of the Notes. Moreover, Holdings’ equity holders may have interests in their other respective investments that could also be in conflict with the interests of the holders of the Notes. In addition, Holdings’ equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions that could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to holders of the Notes. For example, Holdings’ equity holders may cause us to pursue a growth strategy (including acquisitions which are not accretive to earnings), which could negatively impact our ability to make payments on the Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or cause a change of control. To the extent permitted by the indentures governing the Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, Holdings’ equity holders may cause us to pay dividends rather than make capital expenditures. Changes in the financial and credit markets or in our credit ratings could adversely affect the market prices of the Notes. The future market prices of our Notes will depend on a number of factors, including: • the prevailing interest rates being paid by companies similar to us; • our ratings with major credit rating agencies; and • the overall condition of the financial and credit markets. The condition of the financial and credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Fluctuations in these factors have had adverse effects on the market prices of our debt instruments in the past, and further fluctuation may have adverse effects on the market prices of the Notes in the future. In addition, credit rating agencies continually revise their ratings for companies that they follow, including us. We cannot be sure that any credit rating agencies that rate the Notes will maintain their ratings on the Notes. A negative change in our rating could have an adverse effect on the market prices of the Notes. Historically, the market for non-investment grade debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of securities similar to the Notes. The market for the Notes may be subject to similar disruptions, which could adversely affect their value. The 15.00%/15.00% Notes are treated as being issued with original issue discount for U.S. federal income tax purposes and if a bankruptcy petition were filed by or against Holdings, holders of the 15.00%/15.00% Notes may receive a lesser amount for their claim than they would have been entitled to receive under the indenture governing the 15.00%/15.00% Notes. The 15.00%/15.00% Notes are treated as being issued with original issue discount, or “OID,” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Holders subject to U.S. federal income taxation will have to report such OID as gross income on a constant yield to maturity basis in advance of the receipt of cash payments thereof and regardless of such holder’s method of accounting for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 20 Table of Contents In addition, if a bankruptcy petition were filed by or against Holdings under applicable U.S. federal bankruptcy laws, the issuance of the 15.00%/15.00% Notes and the claim by any holder of the 15.00%/15.00% Notes for the principal amount of such notes may be limited to an amount equal to the sum of: • the original issue price of such notes; and • that portion of the OID that does not constitute “unmatured interest” for purposes of the applicable U.S. federal bankruptcy laws. Any OID that was not amortized as of the date of the bankruptcy filing may constitute unmatured interest. Accordingly, holders of the 15.00%/15.00% Notes under these circumstances may receive a lesser amount than they would be entitled to under the terms of the indenture governing the 15.00%/15.00% Notes, even if sufficient funds are available. The 15.00%/15.00% Notes may be classified as contingent payment debt instruments for U.S. federal income tax purposes. No existing authority addresses whether debt instruments with terms similar to the 15.00%/15.00% Notes will be characterized as contingent payment debt instruments for U.S. federal income tax purposes. It is possible that the IRS could assert that, due to certain redemption and repurchase features of the 15.00%/15.00% Notes or options exercisable by us with respect to payments of interest on such notes, the 15.00%/15.00% Notes are subject to the rules governing contingent payment debt instruments. If the IRS were to determine the 15.00%/15.00% Notes are contingent payment debt instruments, the timing and amount of income inclusions on such notes and the character of income recognized with respect to a taxable disposition of such notes may be different from the consequences discussed herein. We will be subject to interest deductibility limitations with respect to interest accruing on the 15.00%/15.00% Notes. The 15.00%/15.00% Notes constitute an “Applicable High Yield Discount Obligation” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Consequently, a portion of the interest payable under the 15.00%/15.00% Notes would be non-deductible by Holdings and a portion would be deductible only when paid. Any limit on Holdings’ ability to deduct interest for U.S. federal income tax purposes would have the effect of increasing our taxable income and may adversely affect the cash flow available for interest payments under the 15.00%/15.00% Notes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 