Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this registration statement, and prior to making an investment decision in our ordinary shares or ADSs as described in Item 12,“Description of Securities other than Equity Securities”, you should consider carefully the following specific risk factors. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our ordinary shares or ADSs could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose part or all of their investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, in the U.K., continental Europe, the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Economists now believe the U.S. and U.K. economies, among others, have entered a recessionary period and many are projecting significant negative macroeconomic trends, including widespread job losses, higher unemployment and lower consumer spending. We cannot predict the length and severity of a recession, but as with most businesses, we believe a longer or more severe recession could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The stress experienced by global capital markets, in both debt and equity, that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. Recently, concerns over deflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market in the U.S. and a number of other countries and a declining real estate market in the U.K., U.S. and much of the rest of the world have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and recession. In addition, the fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. Initially, the concerns on the part of market participants were focused on the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of mortgage and asset-backed and other fixed-income securities, including those rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors. As a result, the market for fixed-income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, increased probability of default and lower than expected recovery rates. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. Domestic and international equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and are also dependent upon customer behaviour. Our sales are likely to decline in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses in our investment portfolio. Item 18, “Financial Statements – Note 4 – Details of income” and “–Note 19 – Financial investments” include analyses of unrealised and realised investment losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of both debt and equity markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterised by higher unemployment, lower household income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims or surrenders of policies that could affect the current and future profitability of our business. Although our sales figures have been reasonably consistent with prior years, a prolonged economic crisis could result in lower sales figures in the future. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. These adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Changes in interest rates may cause policyholders to surrender their contracts, reduce the value of our investment portfolio and impact our asset and liability matching, which could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. Certain of our life insurance businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment or for liquidity reasons, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealised loss position. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance businesses, and guaranteed benefits on certain long-term insurance and fund management products, sustained declines in long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates may result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance liabilities, creating asset liability duration mismatches. Our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates would increase the net unrealised loss position of our investment portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would decrease the net unrealised loss position of our investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. However, it may not be possible to hold assets which will provide cash flows to exactly match those relating to policyholder liabilities, in particular in jurisdictions with undeveloped bond markets and in certain markets where regulated surrender value or maturity values are set with reference to the interest rate environment prevailing at the time of policy issue. This is due to the duration and uncertainty of the liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient assets of suitable duration. This results in a residual asset/liability mismatch risk which can be managed but not eliminated. In addition, our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the liability. See also “–Interest rate volatility may adversely affect our profitability”. We are exposed to possible widening in credit spreads which could increase the net unrealised loss portion of the investment portfolio and adversely affect our results of operations. Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads in our investment portfolio. Recent credit spreads on both corporate and structured securities have widened, resulting in continuing depressed valuations. Market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. Accordingly, valuations of investments may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes due to market conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Falls in property prices could have an adverse impact on our investment portfolio and impact our results of operations and shareholders equity. We are subject to property price risk due to holdings of investment properties in a variety of locations worldwide. We are also subject to liquidity, valuation and counterparty risks in relation to property investments. These investments may be adversely affected by continued weakness in real estate markets in the U.K., U.S. and much of the rest of the world and increased mortgage delinquencies. We are also subject to property risk indirectly in our investments in residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”) and commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”). There is the risk that the underlying collateral within our investments in mortgage-backed securities may default on principal and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows paid to our investments. In many cases, the markets for these property investments and instruments have become highly illiquid, and issues relating to counterparty credit ratings and other factors have exacerbated pricing and valuation uncertainties. 13 Fluctuations in the fixed income and equity markets could affect the levels of regulatory capital that we must hold for regulatory solvency purposes and for pension obligations, which could materially impact our results of operations and shareholders equity. The value of our investment assets fluctuates, which can impact the capital levels supporting our business. We are required to hold an excess amount of our capital over a minimum solvency amount. Our IGD solvency surplus decreased from £3.1 billion as of 31 December 2007 to £2.0 billion as of 31 December 2008. Although our IGD solvency surplus increased to £3.2 billion at 30 June 2009, an inability to meet regulatory capital requirements in the future would be likely to lead to intervention by the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”), which could require the Group to restore regulatory capital to acceptable levels. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory capital position”. We are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. See Item 18, “Financial Statements—Note 41—Pension obligations”. Governmental initiatives intended to alleviate the current financial crisis that have been adopted may not be effective and, in any event, are expected to be accompanied by other initiatives, including new capital requirements or other regulations, that could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict. In a number of countries in which we operate legislation has been passed in an attempt to stabilise the financial markets, including bank stabilisation programmes by the Government and Bank of England in the U.K. and similar programmes under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 in the U.S.. This legislation or similar proposals, as well as accompanying actions, such as monetary or fiscal actions, of comparable authorities in the U.S., U.K., Euro-zone and other countries, may fail to stabilise the financial markets. This legislation and other proposals or actions may also have other consequences, including material effects on interest rates and foreign exchange rates, which could materially affect our investments, results of operations and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict. The failure to effectively implement this legislation and related proposals or actions could also result in a material adverse effect, notably increased constraints on the liquidity available in the banking system and financial markets and increased pressure on stock prices, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In the event of future material deterioration in business conditions, we may need to raise additional capital or consider other transactions to manage our capital position or liquidity. In addition, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory agencies, including the FSA and other regulators. In light of the current financial crisis, some of these authorities are or may in the future consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways. All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, and may require us to satisfy increased capital requirements, any of which in turn could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 14 Defaults in our bond, residential and commercial mortgage and structured credit portfolios may have an adverse impact on our profitability and shareholders’ equity. We have a significant exposure to credit risk through our investments in corporate bonds, residential and commercial mortgages and structured credit assets. The risks in these assets may be borne by Aviva plc and our shareholders or by the policyholders whose policies the assets back, or a mixture of the two, where we hold some residual risk. We held a total of £354 billion of assets on our statement of financial position at 31 December 2008, of which £140 billion are assets where Aviva plc and our shareholders bear the risk. Such assets included as of 31 December 2008: · £42,608 million invested in bonds, of which £16,286 million are issued by government related entities, and the remaining are from corporate bonds; · £27,046 million invested in mortgages, of which £13,369 million are commercial mortgages, £5,771 million are residential mortgages (including equity release), and the remaining are securitised mortgages, for which the majority of the risk have been sold to third parties, and Aviva plc and our shareholders only retain exposure to approximately £1,000 million; · £4,690 million invested in policy loans, loans and advances to banks and other loans; · £8,588 million invested in structured credit assets, of which £2,906 million is US Agency backed RMBS, £888 million is non-Agency RMBS, £1,423 million is CMBS and the remaining are CDOs, other ABS and wrapped credit assets; · £9,141 million invested in other Financial Assets including equities and other investments; · £11,217 million of cash and cash equivalents; and · £5,387 million of Reinsurance Assets. The remaining £31,327 million is comprised of various other shareholder assets such as goodwill and value of in-force business, intangible assets, property and equipment, tax assets (current and deferred), receivables and other financial assets, prepayment and accrued income, and deferred acquisition costs. These assets in normal economic conditions reasonably match our long-term insurance liabilities and benefit both policyholders and shareholders. Adverse changes to market conditions, however, could provoke an increase in credit defaults with a negative effect on shareholders’ equity and reduced investment returns. Falls in investment returns could impair our operational capability, including our ability to write significant volumes of new business. For additional information about our investments, see Item 4, “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Investments”. A decline in equity markets or an increase in volatility in equity markets may adversely affect sales of our investment products, our fund management business, our profitability, and the market value of our assets invested for our defined benefit pension scheme. Significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in several ways. Downturns in equity markets will depress equity prices and have a negative impact on our capital position in that unrealised losses in our net investment portfolio will increase, and our defined benefit pension scheme deficit will increase as the market value of scheme assets invested in equities decreases. 15 Downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our unit linked, participating and fund management business. Because our unit linked and fund management businesses depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment assets we manage. Likewise, because investment risk in our participating business is shared with policyholders a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the funds investment return. Profits could also be reduced as a result of current investors withdrawing funds or reducing their rates of ongoing investment with our fund management companies or as a result of our fund management companies failing to attract funds from new investors. We provide certain guarantees within some of our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the equity markets. For example, we offer certain long-term insurance products with guaranteed features. In volatile or declining equity market conditions, we may need to increase liabilities for future policy benefits and policyholder account balances, negatively affecting net income. Additional provisions for guarantees were increased by £340 million in 2008 in relation to minimum death benefits for unit-linked contracts in France and guaranteed minimum returns at maturity for unit-linked and segregated fund business in the Netherlands. For a discussion of guarantees we have given for our insurance and investment products, please see Item 18, “Financial Statements – Note 35 – Financial guarantees and options”. In our US business in particular, market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of accumulation products, such as equity-indexed annuities and equity-indexed life insurance that have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause some of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those products. A sustained weakness in the markets will decrease revenues and earnings in these type of products. Interest rate volatility may adversely affect our profitability. Some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, term life insurance, universal life insurance and annuities, including fixed and equity indexed annuities, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our “spread,” or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments intended to support obligations under the contracts. Our spread is a key component of our net income. As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk. Lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in investment margins on some products. However, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. Our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortisation of policy acquisition costs and significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortisation, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. In addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, and a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. Accordingly, during periods of declining interest rates, our profitability may suffer as the result of a decrease in the spread between interest rates charged to policyholders and returns on our investment portfolio. 16 Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, our investments intended to support contracts with higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. We, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. In addition, in periods of increasing interest rates, surrenders of life insurance policies and fixed annuity contracts may increase as policyholders choose to forego insurance protection and seek higher investment returns. Obtaining cash to satisfy these obligations may require us to liquidate fixed maturity investments at a time when market prices for those assets are depressed because of increases in interest rates. This may result in realised investment losses. Regardless of whether we realise an investment loss, these cash payments would result in a decrease in total invested assets, and may decrease our net income. Premature withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate amortisation of policy acquisition costs, which would also reduce our net income. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We operate internationally and are thus exposed to foreign currency exchange risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates of various currencies. As of 31 December 2008, over half of our premium income arises in currencies other than sterling, and our net assets are denominated in a variety of currencies, of which the largest are the euro and sterling. In managing our foreign currency exposures, we do not hedge revenues as these are substantially retained locally to support the growth of the business and meet local regulatory and market requirements. Nevertheless, the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on local operating results could lead to significant fluctuations in our consolidated financial statements upon translation of the results into sterling. Although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. Our foreign exchange policy requires that each of our subsidiaries maintain sufficient assets in their local currencies to meet local currency liabilities. However, such movements may impact the value of our consolidated shareholders’ equity, which is expressed in sterling. For a discussion of the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on our results of operations, see Item 11, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Currency Risk”. Market fluctuations may cause the value of options and guarantees embedded in some of our life insurance products to exceed the value of the assets backing their reserves and as a consequence, negatively affect the profitability of the business. Guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results if hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective, result in higher hedging costs, expose us to increased counterparty risk and result in our own credit exposure. As a normal part of their operating activities, various Group companies have given guarantees, including interest rate guarantees, in respect of certain long-term insurance, unit linked and fund management products. At the present time, guarantees and options are in force in the U.K., Asia, continental Europe and the U.S. In providing these guarantees and options, our capital position is sensitive to fluctuations in financial variables including, interest rates, credit spreads, real estate prices and equity prices. Interest rate guaranteed returns, such as those available on guaranteed annuity options (“GAOs”), are sensitive to interest rates falling below the guaranteed level. Other guarantees, such as maturity value guarantees and guarantees in relation to minimum rates of return, are sensitive to fluctuations in the investment return below the level assumed when the guarantee was made. 17 Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net income. We use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities, and while we believe that these and other actions have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. We are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits increases, resulting in a reduction to net income. In addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behaviour or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. These, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on net income, financial condition or liquidity. Some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that have been experiencing significant market valuation fluctuations. We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately placed fixed-maturity securities, and unlisted equities, as the inputs used for their valuation are not directly observable in the market. These asset classes represented approximately 1% of the total assets held at fair value as of 31 December 2008. Even some of our very high quality assets have been more illiquid as a result of the recent challenging market conditions. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio or derivatives transactions, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realise, or both. The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described in the paragraph above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and stockholders’ equity. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favourable terms, or at all. 18 Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. The impairment of other financial institutions, service providers and business partners could adversely affect us. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and other investment funds, other insurance groups and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realised upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. We also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and equity investments. There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets would not materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our equity indexed annuity and life products. We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. Our obligations under our equity indexed annuity and life products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties do not pay us. This is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by financial institutions. Defaults by such counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the service providers and business partners (such as our bancassurance partners in certain international locations) on which we rely or partially rely to provide services and grow our business. We operate in several markets through arrangements with third parties. These arrangements involve certain risks that we do not face with our subsidiaries. Our ability to exercise management control over our partnership operations, our joint ventures and our investment in them depends on the terms of the legal agreements. In particular it depends on the allocation of control among, and continued co-operation between, the participants. We may also face financial or other exposure in the event that any of our partners fail to meet their obligations under the agreement or encounter financial difficulty. For example, a significant proportion of our product distribution, such as bancassurance, is carried out through arrangements with third parties not controlled by us and is dependent upon continuation of these relationships. A temporary or permanent disruption to these distribution arrangements could affect our financial condition. Some of these arrangements require our third party partners to participate in and provide capital to our joint venture, associate and subsidiary undertakings. Our partners may change their strategic priorities or encounter financial difficulties preventing them from providing the necessary capital to promote future growth. 19 In addition, we outsource certain customer service, technology and legacy policy administration functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. If we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realise productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. In addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the U.K. (or the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate) might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the U.K. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. Inability of our reinsurers to meet their obligations, or the unavailability of adequate reinsurance coverage, may have an adverse impact on our profitability and shareholders’ equity. We transfer our exposure to certain risks to others through reinsurance arrangements. Under such arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of the losses and expenses associated with reported and unreported losses in exchange for a premium. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on general market conditions and may vary significantly. Any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance will increase our risk of loss. When we obtain reinsurance, we still remain primarily liable for the reinsured risks without regard to whether the reinsurer will meet its reinsurance obligations to us. Therefore, the inability or unwillingness of our reinsurers to meet their financial obligations or disputes on, and defects in reinsurance contract wording or processes, could materially affect our operations. Although we conduct periodic reviews of the financial statements and reputations of our reinsurers, our reinsurers may become financially unsound by the time they are called upon to pay amounts due, which may not occur for many years. As a result of the crisis in the financial markets and other macro-economic challenges currently affecting the global economy, our reinsurers may experience increased regulatory scrutiny, serious cash flow problems and other financial difficulties. In addition, reinsurance may prove inadequate to protect against losses. Due to the nature of the reinsurance market and the restricted range of reinsurers that have acceptable ratings, we are exposed to concentrations of risk with individual reinsurers. If a catastrophic event or the inability to meet financial obligations caused these reinsurers to default, our business profitability and shareholders’ equity could be significantly affected. Furthermore, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business. For additional information on reinsurance, see Item 4, “Information on the Company – Business Overview – General Insurance and Health Claims Reserves – Reinsurance”. We are rated by several rating agencies, and a decline in any of these ratings could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our sales and earnings to decrease. Claims-paying ability and financial strength ratings are factors in establishing the competitive position of insurers. A rating downgrade (or the perceived potential for such a downgrade) of Aviva plc or any of our rated insurance subsidiaries may, among other things, materially increase the number of policy surrenders and withdrawals by policyholders of cash values from their policies. 20 The outcome of such activities may be cash payments requiring the sale of invested assets, including illiquid assets, at a price that may result in realised investment losses. These cash payments to policyholders would result in a decrease in total invested assets and a decrease in net income. Among other things, early withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate amortisation of policy acquisition costs, reducing net income. A rating downgrade may also impact sales volumes, particularly in the U.S. where there is more focus on ratings when evaluating similar products. Aviva plc currently has a long-term counterparty credit rating of A with a negative outlook from Standard & Poor’s, A1 with a negative outlook from Moody’s, a- with a stable outlook from AM Best and A with a negative outlook from Fitch. These ratings represent the third highest of nine ratings categories for the Standard & Poor’s rating and the middle within the category based on modifiers (i.e., A+, A and A- are “Strong”); the third highest of nine ratings categories for the Moody’s rating and the highest within the category based on modifiers (i.e., A1, A2 and A3 are “Good”); the third highest of nine ratings categories for the AM Best rating and the lowest within the category based on modifiers (i.e., a+, a, and a- are “Strong”); and the third highest of nine ratings categories for Fitch and the middle within the category based on modifiers (i.e. A+, A and A- are “Strong”). The insurance financial strength ratings of Aviva’s core operating subsidiaries are AA- with a negative outlook (Standard & Poor’s), Aa3 with a negative outlook (Moody’s), A with a stable outlook (AM Best) and AA- with a negative outlook (Fitch). These ratings represent the second highest of nine ratings categories for the Standard & Poor’s rating and the lowest within the category based on modifiers (i.e., AA+, AA and AA- are “Very Strong”); the second highest of nine ratings categories for the Moody’s rating and the lowest within the category based on modifiers (i.e., Aa1, Aa2 and Aa3 are “Excellent”); the second highest of nine rating categories for the AM Best rating and the highest within the category based on modifiers (i.e., A and A- are “Excellent”); and the second highest of nine ratings categories for Fitch and the lowest within the category based on modifiers (i.e. AA+, AA and AA- are “Very Strong”). The foregoing ratings reflect each rating agency’s opinion of the financial strength, operating performance and the ability to meet obligations for Aviva plc and Aviva’s core operating subsidiaries. These ratings are not evaluations relating to our common stock or the protection of our shareholders. Rating organisations assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to general economic conditions and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the rating agencies, including Standard & Poor's, Moody's, Fitch and AM Best, will heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, will increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we or others may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with other companies in the insurance industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notices by any rating agency. A downgrade may adversely affect relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of our products and services, which may negatively impact new sales and adversely affect our ability to compete and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the interest rates we pay on our borrowings are affected by our debt credit ratings. Our businesses are conducted in highly competitive environments and our continued profitability depends on management’s ability to respond to these pressures. There are many factors which affect our ability to sell our products, including price and yields offered, financial strength and ratings, range of product lines and product quality, brand strength and name recognition, investment management performance and historical bonus levels. In some of our markets, the Group faces competitors that are larger, have greater financial resources or a greater market share, offer a broader range of products or have higher bonus rates or claims-paying ratios. Further, heightened competition for talented and skilled employees with local experience, particularly in the emerging, high growth markets, may limit our potential to grow our business as quickly as planned. 21 Our principal competitors in the life market include many of the major financial services businesses including, in particular, Axa, Allianz, Generali and Prudential. Our principal competitors in the general insurance market include Royal Bank of Scotland Insurance, RSA, Zurich, Axa and Allianz. We also face competitors who specialise in many of the niche markets in which we operate, for example bulk annuities in the U.K. We believe that competition will intensify across all regions in response to consumer demand, technological advances, the impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors. Our ability to generate an appropriate return depends significantly upon our capacity to anticipate and respond appropriately to these competitive pressures. The use of inaccurate assumptions in pricing and reserving for insurance business may have an adverse effect on our business profitability. The management of the life insurance business within the Group requires the life insurance companies to make a number of assumptions in relation to the business written, including with regard to the mortality and morbidity rates of our customers, the development of interest rates, persistency rates (the rates at which customers terminate existing policies prior to their maturity dates) and future levels of expenses. These assumptions may turn out to be incorrect. When establishing their liabilities, our life insurance companies allow for changes in the assumptions made, monitor their experience against the actuarial assumptions used and assess the information gathered to refine their long term assumptions, together with taking actual claims experience into account. However, it is not possible to determine precisely the amounts in total that will be ultimately necessary to pay liabilities under the policies written by the business. Amounts may vary from estimates, particularly in light of the long term nature of the life insurance business. Changes in assumptions may also lead to changes in the level of capital required to be maintained. If the assumptions underlying our reserving methodology were to prove incorrect, we may need to increase the amount of our reserves, which could have a material adverse impact on the Group’s value, the results of our operation and/or financial condition and our ability to manage our businesses in an efficient manner. Examples of our reserving assumptions, which could prove to be incorrect, would include: actual claims experience being less favourable than the underlying assumptions; a higher than anticipated rate of future claims; or actual levels of future persistency being significantly lower than previously assumed. Additionally, our management of the general insurance business requires the general insurance companies to make a number of assumptions in relation to the business written. These assumptions include the costs of writing the business and settling claims, and the frequency and severity of claims. The assumptions may turn out to be incorrect. In relation to certain key risks such as weather catastrophes (e.g. a U.K. flood or Northern European windstorm), if actual claims experience is less favourable than the underlying assumptions, this would have an adverse impact on our profit. Additionally, manmade disasters including accidents and intentional events are difficult to predict with a high degree of accuracy. These would also have an adverse impact on our profit due to higher than expected claims. Furthermore, outstanding claims provisions for the general insurance business are based on the best-estimate ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at a given date, both reported and incurred but not reported (“IBNR”), together with the direct costs incurred in settling each claim (e.g. legal fees). Any provisions for re-opened claims are also included. A range of methods, including stochastic projections, may be used to determine these provisions. Underlying these methods are a number of explicit or implicit assumptions relating to the expected settlement amount and settlement pattern of claims. If the assumptions underlying the reserving basis were to prove incorrect or actual claims experience were to be less favourable than the underlying assumptions, we might have to increase the amount of the general insurance provisions. If claims exceed insurance reserves financial results could be significantly affected. 22 We have a significant exposure to annuity business and a significant life insurance risk is associated with longevity. Longevity statistics are monitored in detail, compared with emerging industry trends, and the results are used to inform both the reserving and pricing of annuities. Inevitably there remains uncertainty about the development of future longevity that cannot be mitigated. Our principal longevity risks emanate from markets with a long history of collecting population longevity data, and we study those statistics in detail. We also believe the size of our business means that we have statistically relevant data to make an assessment of the longevity characteristics of our own portfolio. In addition to evaluating current experience the key factor is our assessment of the future rate of improvement in longevity. For this, we analyse trends and study the wide range of papers written on this subject, in reaching our conclusions. A strengthening in the longevity assumption used to calculate our long-term business liabilities would result in an increase in these reserves and reduce significantly our shareholders’ equity. As disclosed in Item 18, “Financial Statements – Note 50(g)”, the impact on profit before tax of a 5% change in annuitant mortality at 31 December 2008 for long term business would be £320 million. We may face losses if there are significant deviations from our assumptions regarding the persistency of our insurance policies and annuity contracts. A significant proportion of our profitability arises from our in-force portfolio of business. The prices and expected future profitability of our insurance and deferred annuity products are based in part upon expected patterns of premiums, expenses and benefits, using a number of assumptions, including those related to persistency, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. The effect of persistency on profitability varies for different products. For most of our life insurance and deferred annuity products, actual persistency that is lower than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse impact on profitability. Customers are often able to surrender their contracts early, which will generally reduce the future flow of profits. In addition some contracts have a variety of options which the customer is able to choose to exercise. In setting reserves, assumptions have been made about the proportion of customers exercising options. If more customers choose to exercise options at times when they are most valuable, then our net income will be adversely affected. Significant deviations in experience from pricing expectations regarding persistency could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. The cyclical nature of the insurance industry may cause fluctuations in our results. Historically, the insurance industry has been cyclical and operating results of insurers have fluctuated significantly because of volatile and sometimes unpredictable developments, many of which are beyond the direct control of any insurer. Although we have a geographically diverse group of businesses providing a diverse range of products, we expect to experience the effects of this cyclical nature, including changes in sales and premium levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The unpredictability and competitive nature of the general insurance business historically has contributed to significant quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year fluctuations in underwriting results and net earnings in the general insurance industry. 23 As a global business, we are exposed to various local political, regulatory and economic conditions, business risks and challenges which may affect the demand for our products and services, the value of our investment portfolios and the credit quality of local counterparties. We offer our products and services in Europe, North America and the Asia Pacific region, through wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, companies in which we hold non-controlling equity stakes, agents and independent contractors. Our international operations expose us to different local political, regulatory, business and financial risks and challenges which may affect the demand for our products and services, the value of our investment portfolio, the required levels of capital and surplus, and the credit quality of local counterparties. These risks include, for example, political, social or economic instability in countries in which we operate, discriminatory regulation, credit risks of our local borrowers and counterparties, lack of local business experience in certain markets, risks associated with exposure to insurance industry insolvencies through policyholder guarantee funds or similar mechanisms set up in foreign markets and, in certain cases, risks associated with the potential incompatibility with foreign partners, especially in countries in which we are conducting business through entities we do not control. Some of our international insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in different economic, social and political conditions. Finally, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially affected from time to time by the general economic conditions such as the levels of employment, consumer lending, prevailing interest rates, or inflation, in the countries in which we operate. If our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortising Deferred Acquisition Costs (“DAC”) and Acquired value of in-force business (“AVIF”) vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortisation and/or impair the DAC and AVIF which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal business. Those costs that vary with and are, in particular, related to the production of new and renewal business in respect of certain U.K. non-profit insurance business and certain U.S. insurance business are deferred and referred to as DAC. The recovery of DAC is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates and expenses to administer the business. Of these factors, we anticipate that investment margins are most likely to impact the rate of amortisation of such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into management’s estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortise such costs. If the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated, then the amortisation of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortisation of the DAC related to U.K unit-linked business, resulting in a charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. AVIF, arising primarily in our U.S. business, reflects the estimated fair value of certain in-force contracts in a life insurance company acquired either directly or through the purchase of a subsidiary and represents the portion of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and investment contracts in-force at the acquisition date. AVIF is based on actuarially determined projections. Actual experience may vary from the projections. Revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could result in an impairment and a charge to income. Also, as AVIF is amortised similarly to DAC, an acceleration of the amortisation of AVIF would occur if the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated. Accordingly, the amortisation of such costs would be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 24 If our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognise an impairment of our goodwill, intangibles with indefinite useful lives or intangibles with finite lives, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually for impairment or when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value. We test intangibles with finite lives when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value. For impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles have been allocated to cash-generating units by geographical reporting unit and business segment. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business. Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles are written down for impairment where the recoverable amount is insufficient to support its carrying value. Such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Our valuation of Available For Sale (“AFS”) Securities and Fair Value (“FV”) Securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which, by their nature, require judgement. The use of reasonable alternative methodologies, estimations and assumptions could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We value our AFS and FV securities using designated methodologies, estimation and assumptions. These securities, which are reported at fair value on the consolidated statement of financial position, represent the majority of our total cash and invested assets. We have categorised these securities by the quality of available evidence of fair value, with reference to the IASB’s expert advisory panel’s report, Measuring and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments in markets that are no longer active, issued in October 2008. This report categorises these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). At 31 December 2008, 1% of total financial investments at fair value were classified as Level 3, amounting to £2,845 million. An asset or liability’s classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects-IFRS Critical Accounting Policies-Investments”. During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, such as mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 25 The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. If the carrying value of an investment is greater than the recoverable amount, the carrying value is reduced through a charge to the income statement in the period of impairment. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements. In the event that the assumptions and calculations underlying the endowments business were materially wrong, a significant change in the provisions required could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In December 1999, the FSA announced the findings of its review of mortgage endowments and expressed concern as to whether, given decreases in expected future investment returns, such policies could be expected to cover the full repayment of mortgages. We have made provisions totalling £38 million as at 31 December 2008 to meet potential mis-selling costs and the associated expenses of investigating complaints. In August 2004, we confirmed our intention to introduce time barring on mortgage endowment complaints, under FSA rules, by the end of 2006. We have written to our 1.1 million endowment policyholders as part of our ongoing review, stating that we intend to introduce a time bar on mortgage endowment complaints in the future. Customers will be given at least 12 months’ notice before a time bar becomes applicable, double the six months’ notice required by the FSA. Until such time as all claims under such policies are either time-barred or determined, the provisions held by companies in the Group are based on a combination of experience and modelling and are, therefore, only estimates of the expected final outcome. In the event that the assumptions and calculations underlying the business were to be materially wrong, a significant change in the provisions required could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Our aggregate exposure to potential endowment mis-selling claims is linked to the performance of the underlying investments. While our principal exposure to mis-selling claims is in the U.K., we sell endowment products in other countries in which we operate, and are therefore also exposed to potential mis-selling claims in these countries. We are involved in various legal proceedings and regulatory investigations and examinations and may be involved in more in the future, any one or a combination of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have been named as defendants in lawsuits (both class actions and individual lawsuits). We have been subject to regulatory investigations or examinations in the various jurisdictions where we do business. These actions arise in various contexts including in connection with our activities as an insurer, securities issuer, employer, investment advisor, investor and taxpayer. For example Aviva USA (formerly AmerUS), a US-based insurer we acquired in November 2006 is subject to litigation (including class-action litigation) arising out of its sale of equity indexed annuity products. 26 Certain of these lawsuits and investigations seek significant or unspecified amounts of damages (including punitive damages), and certain of the regulatory authorities involved in these proceedings have substantial powers over the conduct and operations of our business. Due to the nature of certain of these lawsuits and investigations, we cannot make an estimate of loss or predict with any certainty the potential impact of these suits or investigations on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the course of conducting insurance business, various companies within the Group receive general insurance liability claims, and become involved in actual or threatened related litigation arising there from, including claims in respect of pollution and other environmental hazards. Amongst these are claims in respect of asbestos production and handling in various jurisdictions, including the UK, Australia, Ireland, the Netherlands and Canada. Given the significant delays that are experienced in the notification of these claims, the potential number of incidents which they cover and the uncertainties associated with establishing liability and the availability of reinsurance, the ultimate cost cannot be determined with certainty. Additionally, it is possible that a regulator in one of our major markets may conduct a review of products previously sold, either as part of an industry-wide review or specific to Aviva. The result of this review may be to compensate customers for losses they have incurred as a result of the products they were sold. All of our businesses are subject to operational risks, including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems and human error or from external events. Our business is dependent on processing a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse products. Furthermore, the long term nature of the majority of our business means that accurate records have to be maintained for significant periods. We also outsource several operations, including certain servicing and IT functions and are therefore at least partially reliant upon the operational processing performance of our outsourcing partners. Our systems and processes on which we are dependent to serve our customers are designed to ensure that the operational risks associated with our activities are appropriately identified and addressed; however, they may nonetheless fail due to IT malfunctions, human error, business interruptions, non-performance by third parties or other external events. This could disrupt business operations resulting in material reputational damage and the loss of customers, and have a consequent material adverse effect on our results. Although we have taken appropriate steps to upgrade systems and processes to reduce these operational risks, we cannot anticipate the specifics or timing of all possible operational and systems failures which may adversely impact our business. Additional details of the types of operational risks associated with financial reporting is provided below in "–Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act entails significant expenditure and managerial attention, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us." Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. Many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behaviour or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate, particularly in unusual markets and environments. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. 27 The failure to attract or retain the necessary personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results and/or financial condition. As a global financial services organisation with a decentralised management structure, we rely, to a considerable extent, on the quality of local management in the regions and countries in which we operate. The success of our operations is dependent, among other things, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional people. Competition for such key people in most countries in which we operate is intense. Our ability to attract and retain key people, and in particular directors, experienced investment managers, fund managers and underwriters, is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. Catastrophic events, which are often unpredictable by nature, could result in material losses and abruptly and significantly interrupt our business activities. Our business is exposed to volatile natural and manmade disasters such as pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, terrorism, riots, fires and explosions. Over the past several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposure. Our life insurance operations, in particular, are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the likelihood and timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be predicted. The effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organisations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. These events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics, hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new business could also be affected. Furthermore, pandemics, natural disasters, terrorism and fires could disrupt our operations and result in significant loss of property, key personnel and information about our clients and us. If our business continuity plans have not included effective contingencies for such events they could adversely affect our business, results of operations, corporate reputation and financial condition for a substantial period of time. Our regulated business is subject to extensive regulatory supervision both in the U.K. and internationally. Our insurance subsidiaries worldwide are subject to detailed and comprehensive government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects of the insurance business, which may include premium rates, marketing and selling practices, advertising, licensing agents, policy forms, capital adequacy and permitted investments. Government regulators are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than our shareholders or creditors. Insurance laws, regulations and policies currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time in ways having an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we cannot predict the timing or form of future regulatory initiatives. 28 In the U.K., our business is subject to regulation by the FSA, which has broad powers under the Financial Services and Markets Act (“FSMA”), including the authority to grant, vary the terms of, or cancel a regulated firm’s authorisation, to investigate marketing and sales practices and to require the maintenance of adequate financial resources. The FSA has the power to take a range of investigative, disciplinary or enforcement actions, including public censure, restitution, fines or sanctions and to award compensation. The FSA may make enquiries of the companies which it regulates regarding compliance with regulations governing the operation of business and like all U.K. regulated financial service companies, we face the risk that the FSA could find that we have failed to comply with applicable regulations or have not undertaken corrective action as required. Issues and disputes may arise from time to time from the way in which the insurance industry or fund management industry has sold or administered an insurance policy or other product or in the way in which they have treated policyholders or customers, either individually or collectively. In the U.K., any such issues or disputes are typically resolved by the Financial Ombudsman Service (‘‘FOS’’) in the U.K., or by litigation for individual policyholders. The FSA may intervene directly, however, where larger groups or matters of public policy are concerned. There have been several industry-wide issues in recent years in which the FSA has intervened directly, including the sale of personal pensions, the sale of mortgage-related endowments and investments in split capital investment trusts. On 1 October 2009, we completed the reattribution of the “inherited estate” in the U.K.. The inherited estate is money that has built up in a with-profits fund over many generations, which is above the amount needed to meet current and future policyholder commitments and obligations such as expenses. The inherited estate is still required as the working capital for the with-profits fund and to support its operation. We are the first company to do so under new rules from the FSA, which required negotiation through a policyholder advocate. The policyholder advocate is a role created to represent policyholders under FSA rules governing reattribution. The High Court approved the reattribution and accompanying scheme transfer on 18 September 2009. Following the reattribution, shareholders are exposed to more risk and potential reward. This additional exposure will be subject to the same risk management processes that we generally apply. Outside of the U.K., our business is regulated by local regulators that often have similar powers to the FSA and could therefore have a similar negative impact on perceptions of us or have a material adverse effect on our business, our results and/or financial condition and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day management of the business. Furthermore, various jurisdictions in which we operate, including the U.K., have created investor compensation schemes that require mandatory contributions from market participants in some instances in the event of a failure of another market participant. As a major participant in the majority of its chosen markets, circumstances could arise where we, along with other companies, may be required to make such contributions. Additionally there is a risk to us and other insurers that we may be obliged to meet compensation costs arising from bank failures. The financial crisis has exposed a number of weaknesses in the current regulatory framework. Whilst these weaknesses are predominantly in the banking sector, the insurance and investment management industries potentially face a number of regulatory initiatives aimed at addressing lessons learnt from the crisis. We could be impacted by global initiatives (led by the G20), European initiatives and national initiatives in the markets within which we operate. 29 The Solvency II Directive, an insurance industry regulation agreed by the European Parliament earlier in 2009, will require European domiciled insurers to move to more risk based capital requirements. However the more detailed implementing measures still need to be agreed and there is a risk that this could lead to a significant increase in the capital required to support our annuity business. There is evidence of heightened supervisory action throughout the world to assess and protect the financial position of regulated insurance companies. For example, the FSA has asked all life insurers in the UK to apply further stress tests to their solvency positions at the end of 2008 to ensure they hold sufficient capital. Other European regulators in certain countries in which we operate have adopted new rules – or indicated that they may adopt new rules in the future – relating to distributable reserves and retention of profits, which could affect the dividends our subsidiaries may pay to us. A determination that we have failed to comply with applicable regulation could have a negative impact on our reported results or on our relations with current and potential customers. Regulatory action against a member of the Group could result in adverse publicity for, or negative perceptions regarding, the Group, or could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and/or financial condition and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day management of the business. Inconsistent application of Directives by regulators in different European Union (“EU”) member states may place our business at a competitive disadvantage to other European financial services groups. Insurance regulation in the U.K. is largely based on the requirements of EU Directives. Inconsistent application of Directives by regulators in different EU member states may place our business at a competitive disadvantage to other European financial services groups. In addition, changes in the local regulatory regimes of designated territories could affect the calculation of our solvency position. Our businesses are subject to regulatory risk, including adverse changes in the laws, regulations, policies and interpretations in the markets in which we operate. We will not always be able to predict accurately the impact of future legislation or regulation or changes in the interpretation or operation of existing legislation or regulation on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Changes in government policy, legislation or regulatory interpretation applying to companies in the financial services and insurance industries in any of the markets in which we operate, which may be applied retrospectively, may adversely affect our product range, distribution channels, capital requirements and, consequently, results and financing requirements. Such changes could include, for example, alterations to the regulatory framework for pension arrangements and policies or the regulation of selling practices and solvency requirements (including the implementation of the EU solvency framework for insurers, “Solvency II”). We may face increased compliance costs due to the need to set up additional compliance controls or the direct cost of such compliance because of changes to financial services legislation or regulation. We face significant compliance challenges because our regulatory environment is evolving rapidly and supervisory authorities around the world are assuming an increasingly active and aggressive role in interpreting and enforcing regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, for example in the U.K., the extent of the regulator's interpretation of the principle of “treating customers fairly”. 30 Regulatory changes or errors may affect the calculation of unit prices or deduction of charges for our unit-linked products which may require Aviva to compensate customers retrospectively. A significant proportion of our product sales are unit-linked contracts, where product benefits are linked to the prices of underlying unit funds. Whilst comprehensive controls are in place, there is a risk of error in the calculation of the prices of these funds, which may be due to human error in data entry, IT related issues or other causes. Additionally, it is possible that policy charges which are deducted from these contracts are taken incorrectly, or the methodology is subsequently challenged by policyholders or regulators and changed retrospectively. Any of these can give rise to compensation payments to customers. Controls are in place to mitigate these risks, but errors could give rise to future liabilities. Payments due to errors or compensation may negatively impact our profits. From time to time changes in the interpretation of existing tax laws, amendments to existing tax rates, or the introduction of new tax legislation may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world. Tax risk is the risk associated with changes in tax law or in the interpretation of tax law. It also includes the risk of changes in tax rates and the risk of failure to comply with procedures required by tax authorities. Failure to manage tax risks could lead to an additional tax charge. It could also lead to a financial penalty for failure to comply with required tax procedures or other aspects of tax law. If, as a result of a particular tax risk materialising, the tax costs associated with particular transactions are greater than anticipated, it could affect the profitability of those transactions. There are also specific rules governing the taxation of policyholders. We will be unable accurately to predict the impact of future changes in tax law on the taxation of life insurance and pension policies in the hands of policyholders. Amendments to existing legislation (particularly if there is the withdrawal of any tax relief or an increase in tax rates) or the introduction of new rules may affect the future long term business and the decisions of policyholders. The impact of such changes upon us might depend on the mix of business in force at the time of such change and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. The design of life insurance products by our life insurance companies takes into account a number of factors, including risks, benefits, charges, expenses, investment returns (including bonuses) and taxation. The design of long term insurance products is based on the tax legislation in force at that time. Changes in tax legislation or in the interpretation of tax legislation may therefore, when applied to such products, have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the relevant long term business fund of the company in which the business was written. The governance arrangements in place with Delta Lloyd N.V. could impact on how we can direct the day to day management of the internal operations of this subsidiary. Delta Lloyd N.V. is one of the Group’s subsidiaries consolidated in the Aviva plc IFRS financial statements. Delta Lloyd N.V. is subject to the provisions of Dutch corporate law and particularly the Dutch “full structure company” regime. Under this regime, Delta Lloyd operates under a Supervisory Board, which is responsible for advising and supervising Delta Lloyd’s Executive Board and is the body having the right to appoint and dismiss that Board. For governance purposes, our interests are represented through our two members of the Supervisory Board, which has a duty to a wide variety of stakeholders, including its shareholders. Currently only the Supervisory Board itself has the power to appoint Supervisory Board directors, taking into account recommendations of the shareholders. These arrangements could impact on how we can direct the day to day management of Delta Lloyd's internal operations. See Item 18, "Financial Statements - Note 2d - Subsidiaries". 31 Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act entails significant expenditure and managerial attention, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NYSE require changes to some of our accounting and corporate governance practices, including the requirement that we issue in our second annual filing, for the year ending 31 December 2010 and future years, a report on our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect that compliance with the new rules and regulations will continue to require significant management attention and will result in increased accounting, legal and other costs. In addition, because Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our auditors to audit and issue a report on our internal controls over financial reporting, undertaking significant IT, internal restructuring, corporate development or other initiatives that may affect our internal control environment, may become more difficult and/or costly, particularly during periods when our internal controls over financial reporting are undergoing audit. This may have an adverse effect on our business and/or our ability to compete with our competitors who are not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a UK listed company, we have been operating a control framework that involves regular self assessments of internal controls to ensure we meet existing compliance requirements applicable to us under the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control. This control framework was based on the criteria established in “Internal Control - Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). Results of these assessments are reported twice a year to our Audit Committee and our external auditors. Given our commitment to continue to improve our internal control over financial reporting, and in anticipation of our listing on a U.S. stock exchange, we have been implementing since early 2007 an enhanced control framework so that it will meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by 31 December 2010. However, since we have not yet completed our Section 404 testing and assessment work, there is a risk that weaknesses could be identified that would require significant expenditures or management attention to remediate. During this enhancement exercise, we have identified some control weaknesses. However, appropriate compensating actions were taken to ensure that there was no material misstatement in our financial statements as of and for the year ended 31 December 2008. We also have remediation plans in place which seek to ensure that these control issues are resolved or otherwise mitigated by 31 December 2009 in line with the certifications to be provided under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The main types of weaknesses identified to date and our remediation plans relate to: · Evidencing of control operation: Our enhanced control framework requires appropriate evidence of control operation to auditable standards and our remediation plans therefore include improved authorisation and signature processes, formalised data capture and segregation of duties to ensure that sufficient evidence is retained to demonstrate effective operation of controls; · Maintaining appropriate access controls for information systems: Our enhanced control framework is based on the criteria established by the IT Governance Institute, published in “IT Control Objectives for Sarbanes-Oxley” and our remediation plans include implementing appropriate minimum control standards across all IT operations that support financial reporting; · Robustness of certain controls, especially during the current economic turbulence (such as the controls over assumption setting used in the pricing of complex investments): 32 Our enhanced control framework requires greater robustness of these controls and our remediation plans include clarifying our valuation policy and expanding the level of detail of controls within specific asset classes (including timely and robust property and derivatives valuations). We cannot predict the final outcome of the Section 404 assessment and implementation process and whether significant additional changes will be required to our internal controls over financial reporting. In the event we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, it may have a material adverse effect on us. There are inherent funding risks associated with our participations in defined benefit staff pension schemes. We operate both defined benefit and defined contribution staff pension schemes. There are inherent funding risks associated with the defined benefit schemes. Events could result in a material reduction in the funding position of such schemes and, in some cases, a deficit between the pension scheme’s assets and liabilities could increase. The factors that affect the scheme’s position include: poor investment performance of pension fund investments; greater life expectancy than assumed; adverse changes in interest rates; and other events occurring which make past service benefits more expensive than predicted in the actuarial assumptions by reference to which funding requirements have been assessed. In the short term, the funding position is inherently volatile due to movements in the market value of assets. Where a funding deficit or surplus arises the position will be discussed with the scheme trustees to agreement appropriate actions. This may include a funding plan being agreed to make good the deficit over a period of years but could also include a range of other actions such as changes to member contribution rates, changes in future benefit accruals or closure of schemes to new members. Any surplus or deficit in the defined benefit pension scheme will affect our shareholders’ equity. We are reliant on IT systems and there are risks that our current and legacy systems cannot be made to adapt to growth in the business or new styles of doing business. Key IT initiatives may not deliver what is required either on time or within budget or provide the performance levels required to support the current and future needs of the business. Significant resources are devoted to maintaining and developing our IT systems to keep pace with developments within the insurance and fund management industries. Failure to do so could result in the inability to gather information for pricing, underwriting and reserving, and to attract and retain customers. We could also incur higher administrative costs both from the processing of business and potentially remediation of disputes. Our acquisitions may divert management attention and other resources and involve risks of undisclosed liabilities and integration issues. In recent years we have completed a number of acquisitions around the world. We may make further acquisitions in the future. Growth by acquisition involves risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including the substantial amount of management time that may be diverted from operations to pursue and complete acquisitions. Our acquisitions could also result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness, costs, contingent liabilities, and impairment and amortisation expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, all of which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Future acquisitions may have a dilutive effect on the ownership and voting percentages of existing shareholders. We may also finance future acquisitions with debt issuances or by entering into credit facilities, each of which could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. The businesses we have recently acquired include long-term insurance and savings, general insurance and health and fund management. There could be unforeseen liabilities that arise out of the businesses we have acquired and may acquire in the future which may not be covered by, or exceed the amounts of any indemnities provided to us by the sellers. 33 Risks related to ownership of the ADSs and Ordinary Shares As a holding company, we are dependent on our operating subsidiaries to cover operating expenses and dividend payments. Our insurance and fund management operations are generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries. As a holding company, Aviva plc’s principal sources of funding are dividends from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds, the shareholder transfer from the Issuer’s long-term funds and any amounts that may be raised through the issuance of debt and commercial paper. Certain subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions that may limit the payment of dividends, which in some circumstances could limit our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. In the current economic environment, such restrictions could become more stringent. The trading price of our ADSs and dividends paid on our ADSs may be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting sterling into U.S. dollars. An ADS is a negotiable U.S. security, representing ownership in one share. An ADR is denominated in U.S. dollars and represents ownership of any number of ADSs. ADRs are publicly traded shares in a non-US corporation, quoted and traded in U.S. dollars in the U.S. securities market. Any dividends are paid to investors in U.S. dollars. ADRs were specifically designed to facilitate the purchase, holding and sale of non-U.S. securities by U.S. investors. The term ADR is often used to mean both the certificates and the securities themselves. Fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting pound sterling into U.S. dollars may affect the value of our ADSs. Specifically, as the relative value of the pound sterling against the U.S. dollar declines, each of the following values will also decline: · the U.S. dollar equivalent of the pound sterling trading price of our ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange which may consequently cause the trading price of our ADSs in the U.S. to also decline; · the U.S. dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of our ADSs would receive upon the sale in U.K. of any our ordinary shares withdrawn from the depositary; and · the U.S. dollar equivalent of cash dividends paid in pound sterling on our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs. The holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their voting rights due to delays in notification to and by the depositary. The depositary for our ADSs may not receive voting materials for our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in time to ensure that holders of our ADSs can instruct the depositary to vote their shares. In addition, the depositary’s liability to holders of our ADSs for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions is limited by the Deposit Agreement governing our ADR facility. As a result, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote and may have limited recourse against the depositary or us, if their shares are not voted according to their request. 34 Holders of our ADSs will have limited recourse if we or the depositary fail to meet our respective obligations under the Deposit Agreement. The Deposit Agreement expressly limits our obligations and liability and those of the depositary. Neither we nor the depositary will be liable if either of us: · are prevented from or delayed in performing any obligation by circumstances beyond our/their control; · exercise or fail to exercise discretion under the Deposit Agreement; or · take any action based upon the advice of, or information from, legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting ordinary shares for deposit, any holder or owner of an Aviva Plc ADS or any other person believed by us or the depositary in good faith to be competent to give such advice or information. In addition, the depositary has the obligation to participate in any action, suit or other proceeding with respect to our ADSs which may involve it in expense or liability only if it is indemnified. These provisions of the Deposit Agreement will limit the ability of holders of our ADSs to obtain recourse if we or the depositary fails to meet their obligations under the Deposit Agreement or if they wish to involve us or the depositary in a legal proceeding. The holders of our ADSs in the U.S. may not be able to participate in offerings of rights, warrants or similar securities to holders of our ordinary shares on the same terms and conditions as holders of our ordinary shares. In the event that we offer rights, warrants or similar securities to the holders of our ordinary shares or distribute dividends payable, in whole or in part, in securities, the Deposit Agreement provides that the depositary (after consultation with us) shall have discretion as to the procedure to be followed in making such rights or other securities available to ADS holders including disposing of such rights or other securities and distributing the net proceeds in U.S. dollars to ADS holders. Given the significant number of our ADS holders in the U.S., we generally would be required to register with the SEC any public offering of rights, warrants or other securities made to our ADS holders unless an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. securities laws is available. Registering such an offering with the SEC can be a lengthy process which may be inconsistent with the timetable for a global capital raising operation. Consequently, we have in the past elected and may in the future elect not to make such an offer in the U.S., including to our ADS holders in the U.S. and rather only conduct such an offering in an “offshore” transaction in accordance with “Regulation S” under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our ADSR holders will be able to participate in such an offering in the same manner as our ordinary shareholders. Our ADS and ordinary share price could be volatile and could drop unexpectedly and holders may not be able to sell their ADSs or ordinary shares at or above the price they paid. The price at which our ADSs and ordinary shares will trade may be affected by a large number of factors, some of which will be specific to us and our operations and some of which will be related to the insurance industry and equity markets generally. As a result of these factors, you may not be able to resell your ADSs or ordinary shares at or above the price which you paid for them. In particular, the following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this Section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares: · investor perception of our Company, including actual or anticipated variations in our revenues, earnings or other operating results; · announcement of intended acquisitions, disposals or financings or speculations of such acquisitions, disposals or financings; · changes in our dividend policy, which could result from changes in our cash flow and capital position; · sales of blocks of our shares by significant shareholders; 35 · hedging activities on our shares; · a downgrade of our credit or financial strength ratings, including placement on credit watch, or rumours of such downgrades; · actual or potential litigation involving us or the insurance or fund management industries generally; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities research analysts; · fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates; · the performance of other companies in the financial services’ sector; · regulatory developments in the principal markets in which we operate; · international or local political, economic and market conditions; and · unforeseen events such as natural disaster or terrorist attacks and other developments stemming from such events and the uncertainty related to these developments. As a “foreign private issuer” in the U.S. we are exempt from certain rules under the U.S. securities laws and are permitted to file less information with the SEC than U.S. companies. As a “foreign private issuer,” we are exempt from certain rules under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), that impose certain disclosure obligations and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information. Although we must comply with U.K. listing rules on insider reporting of share ownership and on protection of inside information, there may be less publicly available information concerning us than there is for U.S. public companies. Judgments of U.S. courts may not be enforceable against us. Judgment of U.S. courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the Federal securities laws of the U.S. may not be enforceable in courts in the United Kingdom. As a result, our shareholders who obtain a judgment against us in the U.S. may not be able to require us to pay the amount of the judgment. 36 Limitations on Enforceability of Civil Liabilities Under U.S. Federal Securities Laws We are an English company. All of the experts named in this document are residents of the United Kingdom and not the United States. In addition, most of our officers and directors are residents of the United Kingdom and not the United States. It may be difficult or impossible to serve legal process on persons located outside the United States and to force them to appear in a U.S. court. It may also be difficult or impossible to enforce a judgment of a U.S. court against persons outside the United States, or to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against such persons in the United States. We believe that there may be doubt as to the enforceability against persons in the United Kingdom, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the laws of the United States, including its federal securities laws. Because we are a foreign private issuer SEC registrant, our directors and officers will not be subject to rules under the Exchange Act that under certain circumstances would require directors and officers to forfeit to us any “short-swing” profits realised from purchases and sales, as determined under the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder, of our equity securities. However, under the Listing Rules of the U.K. Listing Authority, our directors must not deal in any of our securities on considerations of a short-term nature. Individual shareholders of an English company (including U.S. persons) have the right under English law to bring lawsuits on behalf of the company in which they are a shareholder, and on their own behalf against the company, in certain limited circumstances. English law does not permit class action lawsuits by shareholders, except in limited circumstances. 37 Item 