Item 1A. Risk Factors We have incurred losses and anticipate incurring continuing losses As of the year ended June 30, 2009 we had an accumulated deficit of $37.3 million. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses until we can produce and sell a sufficient number of our systems to be profitable. However, we cannot predict when we will operate profitably, if ever. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future. If we fail to adequately manage our resources, it could have a severe negative impact on our financial results or stock price. We could be subject to fluctuations in technology spending by existing and potential customers. Accordingly, we will have to actively manage expenses in a rapidly changing economic environment. This could require reducing costs during economic downturns and selectively growing in periods of economic expansion. If we do not properly manage our resources in response to these conditions, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Unless we keep pace with changing technologies, we could lose existing customers and fail to win new customers. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce a variety of new products and services and enhancements to these new products and services in order to address the changing needs of the marketplace. We may not be able to accurately predict which technologies customers will support. If we do not introduce new products, services and enhancements in a timely manner, if we fail to choose correctly among technical alternatives or if we fail to offer innovative products and services at competitive prices, customers may forego purchases of our products and services and purchase those of our competitors. - 14 - - The inability to maintain adequate levels of liquidity may have an adverse affect on the working capital of the Company. The Company believes that its present working capital provided by operations along with recently completed equity offerings are adequate to meet its current needs as a going concern for at least the next twelve to eighteen months. However, should current global economic conditions continue to deteriorate, additional working capital financing may be required which may be difficult to obtain due to restrictive credit markets. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop market and sell new and enhanced products at competitive prices, which will require significant research and development expenditures. If we do not develop new and enhanced products or if we are not able to invest adequately in our research and development activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. If our products do not perform as promised, we could experience increased costs, lower margins and harm to our reputation. The failure of our products to perform as promised could result in increased costs, lower margins and harm to our reputation. This could result in contract terminations and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Shortages or delay of supplies of component parts may adversely affect our operating results until alternate sources can be developed. Our operations are dependent on the ability of suppliers to deliver quality components, devices and subassemblies in time to meet critical manufacturing and distribution schedules. If we experience any constrained supply of any such component parts, such constraints, if persistent, may adversely affect operating results until alternate sourcing can be developed. There may be an increased risk of supplier constraints in periods where we are increasing production volume to meet customer demands. Volatility in the prices of these component parts, an inability to secure enough components at reasonable prices to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities and configurations demanded or, conversely, a temporary oversupply of these parts, could adversely affect our future operating results. We could face competition from larger, more well-established companies. Many of our competitors are much larger than we are, have significantly greater capital resources, have proven products and technologies, have already developed relationships with utility and renewable energy companies and, may have the manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities to complete research, development and commercialization of commercially viable energy storage products more quickly and effectively than we can. We have no experience manufacturing our products on a large-scale basis and may be unable to do so at our current facility. To date, we have achieved only very limited production of our energy storage systems and have no experience manufacturing our products on a large-scale basis. In February 2006 we acquired a building we were previously leasing in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin which provides up to 72,000 square feet for use as a manufacturing facility. This facility is currently producing at less than 10% of its expected capacity after our allocation of certain proceeds of our United States equity offering to fully staff and equip it. However, we do not know whether our current manufacturing facility, even if operating at full capacity, will be adequate to enable us to produce the energy storage systems in sufficient quantities to meet hoped for future orders. If there is demand for our products, our inability to manufacture a sufficient number of units on a timely basis would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If our common stock is de-listed from the AMEX, the common stock will become less liquid. Our shares have been listed on the NYSE Amex (formerly the American Stock Exchange) since June 18, 2007. We are required to comply with all reporting and listing requirements on a timely manner and maintain our corporate governance and independent director standards. If the NYSE Amex delists our common stock from trading if we fail to satisfy their ongoing listing requirements including, without limitation, corporate governance, financial condition, and financial reporting rules and minimum price and market capitalization rules, we will be adversely affected and our stock will become less liquid. There can be no assurance that our securities will remain eligible for trading on the NYSE Amex. If our common stock is delisted, our stockholders would not be able to sell the common stock on the NYSE Amex, and their ability to sell any of their common stock would be severely if not completely limited. - 15 - - Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable to smaller reporting companies. Item 