Item 1A. Risk Factors Fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly and annual basis could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As a result, you should not rely on period to period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our revenue and results of operations may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Factors that are likely to cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate include those discussed in the risk factors below. If demand for our chipsets declines or does not grow, we will be unable to increase or sustain our revenue and our business will be severely harmed. We have derived substantially all of our revenue from the sale of chipsets for wireless applications, and we expect our chipsets for wireless networking applications and to a lesser extent our Bluetooth, Ethernet GPS and PAS solutions, to account for substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our success will depend in large part on the growth of these emerging markets and our growth within these markets. If these markets do not achieve the growth we expect, the growth and success of our business could be limited. In addition, if we are unable to develop new products in a timely manner or demand for our chipsets declines as a result of competition or technological changes, it would have a material negative impact on our business, operating results and financial position and our competitive position. The markets for our products are characterized by the frequent introduction of next generation and new products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. If our customers or we are unable to manage product transitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations will suffer. In addition, frequent technology changes and introduction of next generation products may result in inventory obsolescence, which could reduce our gross margins and adversely affect our operating performance. Since we have limited visibility as to the volume of sales of our products by our customers and inventory levels of our products held by our customers, our ability to forecast accurately future demand for and sales of our products is limited. We sell our chipsets to OEMs who integrate our chipsets into their products or to ODMs who include our chipsets in the products they supply to OEMs. We have limited visibility as to the volume of our products that our OEM and ODM customers are selling to their customers or carrying in their inventory. If our customers have excess inventory or experience a slowing of products sold through to their end customers, it would likely result in a slowdown in orders from our customers and adversely impact our future sales and inventory. Any future downturns in the semiconductor industry may reduce our revenue and result in excess inventory. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has, from time to time, experienced significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns may reduce our revenue or our percentage of revenue growth on a quarter-to-quarter basis and result in us having excess inventory. Furthermore, any upturn in the wireless communications market in which we sell our chipsets could result in increased competition for access to limited third-party foundry, assembly and test capacity. 17 Table of Contents Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. A customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales. In addition, our average product life cycles tend to be short and, as a result, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory that could adversely affect our operating results. After we have developed and delivered a product to a customer, the customer will usually evaluate our product prior to designing its own equipment to incorporate our product. Our customers may need several months to test, evaluate and choose whether to adopt our product, and to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. Due to these lengthy sales cycles, we may experience significant delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and make investments in inventory until the time that we generate revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring such expenditures. Even if a customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we have no assurances that the customer will ultimately market and sell its equipment or that such efforts by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle also increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or curtail, reduce or delay its product plans. Such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose sales that we had anticipated. While our sales cycles can be long, our average product life cycles tend to be short as a result of the rapidly changing technology environment in which we operate. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not generate material revenue for us, and from time to time, we may need to write off excess and obsolete inventory. If we incur significant marketing expenses and investments in inventory in the future that we are not able to recover, and we are not able to compensate for those expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in anticipation of cost reductions but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating results would be harmed. The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross profits. The products we develop and sell are used for high volume applications and many of them are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices over the life of the products. We have historically decreased the average selling prices of many of our products in order to meet market demand, and we expect that we will continue to reduce prices in the future. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could impact our average selling prices to all customers. A decline in average selling prices could harm our gross margins. Historically, we have generally been able to substantially offset reductions in our average selling prices with decreases in our product costs and increases in our unit volumes. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our unit volumes, reducing our costs or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross profit. While gross profit may decline as a result of reductions in average selling prices, we may continue to incur research and development costs at higher or existing levels to develop future products. This continued spending would have an adverse impact on our immediate operating results if our revenue does not continue to grow or our gross margins decline. We may not be able to compete effectively and increase or maintain revenue and market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. If we do not compete successfully, our market share and revenue may decline. Within each of our markets, we compete with large semiconductor manufacturers and designers and start-up integrated circuit companies. Some of our competitors are also our customers and partners. Most of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, manufacturing, technical, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. In addition, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. Moreover, many of our competitors have been doing business with customers for a longer 18 Table of Contents period of time and have established relationships, which may provide them with information regarding future trends and requirements that may not be available to us. In addition, some of our larger competitors may be able to provide greater incentives to customers through rebates and marketing development funds and similar programs. Some of our competitors with multiple product lines may bundle their products to offer a broader product portfolio or integrate wireless functionality into other products that we do not sell, which may make it difficult for us to gain or maintain market share. For example, Intel markets its Centrino mobile technology brand and we believe they have provided and may continue to provide a substantial marketing development fund incentive for buyers of a combination of its microprocessor, related chipsets and wireless networking module that use the brand. Intel or other large competitors may also be able to discourage OEMs from placing our brand on their products, which could substantially harm our marketing efforts. We will continue to expend substantial resources developing products for new applications or markets and may never achieve the sales volume that we anticipate for these products, which may limit our future growth and harm our results of operations. We have entered a variety of new wireless and wired communications markets that are outside of our traditional WLAN markets. Through the acquisition of Attansic Technology Corporation in 2006 and the purchase of assets and certain liabilities of u-Nav Microelectronics in 2007, we now offer our customers Ethernet and GPS products, respectively. In addition, we have internally developed Bluetooth and PAS solutions that we actively sell to our customers. Although we plan to diversify our revenue base outside of our WLAN market, the vast majority of our historical revenue has come from the sale of our WLAN products. Our future success will depend in part upon the success of these new products, and we face a number of risks in connection with these products, including those described in other risk factors in this report. We have in the past, and will likely in the future, expend substantial resources in developing new and additional products for new applications and markets. We may experience unforeseen difficulties and delays in developing these products and defects upon volume production and broad deployment. In addition, we will have limited experience in these new markets, and may be unsuccessful in marketing and selling any products we develop for these markets. The markets we choose to enter will likely be highly competitive and many of our competitors will have substantially more experience in these markets. Our success will depend on the growth of the markets we enter, the competitiveness of our products and our ability to increase our market share in these markets. If we choose to enter markets that do not achieve or sustain the growth we anticipate, or if our products are not competitive, we may not achieve volume sales, which may limit our future growth and would harm our results of operations. If we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or for new products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We have significantly grown and expanded our operations in a short period of time, and to achieve our business objectives, we expect to continue to grow. Through internal growth and the acquisition of ZyDAS Technology Corporation, Attansic Technology Corporation and u-Nav Microelectronics Corporation, we have significantly increased the scope of our operations and expanded our workforce, from 260 full-time employees as of December 31, 2004, to 878 employees as of December 31, 2007. We anticipate that we will further expand our workforce through internal growth and acquisitions. Nonetheless, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our current and future products and services. In that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expect, the rate of increase in our operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our past growth has placed, and any future growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require 19 Table of Contents substantial management effort. We have recently implemented an enterprise resource planning system to help us improve our management and planning processes, and we anticipate that we will also need to continue to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, as well as additional procedures and other internal management systems. These processes can be time consuming and expensive, increase management responsibilities, and divert management attention. In addition, in 2006 and 2007 we have entered into leases for additional office space in Northern and Southern California, Taiwan, China, Finland, Germany, and India. We anticipate the need to lease additional office space in other locations in the near future to accommodate our growth and we may also be required to relocate our employees from time to time. Such relocation could result in temporary disruptions of our operations or a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our current or future business. We may not be able to sustain our recent growth rate, and we may not be able to manage our future growth effectively. We have experienced significant growth in a short period of time. Our revenue increased from $183.5 million in 2005, to $301.7 million in 2006 and to $417.0 million in 2007. We may not be able to achieve similar revenue growth rates for 2008 or in future periods. In the event that we do achieve continued growth, the expansion of our business and operations will likely place a significant strain on our resources and increased demands on our management information and reporting systems, financial and management controls and personnel. We may not be able to develop the internal capabilities or collaborative relationships required to manage future growth and expansion or to support future operations. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our financial results could be adversely affected. We depend on key personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. The loss of any key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products and harm the market’s perception of us. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of our senior management, including our President and Chief Executive Officer and our senior engineering personnel. We do not have long-term employment contracts with these or any other key personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. There is currently intense competition for qualified personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacture, marketing and sales of integrated circuits for use in our various products. Our key personnel and consultants represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of personnel to support our business plan. Equity awards generally comprise a significant portion of our compensation packages for all employees. As a result of the applicability of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, and the requirement to expense the fair value of stock options awarded to employees, we have modified and may continue to modify our compensation policies by, for example, increasing cash compensation to certain employees and/or instituting awards of restricted stock units, while simultaneously reducing awards of stock options. For example, our annual stock refresh for employees in 2006 and 2007 and a portion of the annual stock refresh for executive officers in February 2007 and 2008, consisted of restricted stock units as equity compensation for our employees and officers. This modification of our compensation policies and the applicability of the SFAS 123R requirement to expense the fair value of stock options awarded to employees 20 Table of Contents and officers have increased our operating expenses. We cannot be certain that these and any other changes in our compensation policies will or would improve our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees and the increase in stock-based compensation expense could each have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and enhancements, or if our proprietary features do not achieve market acceptance on a timely basis, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impaired, our competitive position may be harmed, and our revenues, earnings and stock price may decline. The wireless and wired communications markets are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, rapid changes in customer requirements and frequent product introductions. We must continually design, develop and introduce new products with improved features to be competitive. Our current and future products may not achieve market acceptance or adequately address the changing needs of the market, and we may not be successful in developing and marketing new products or enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis. The introduction of products embodying new technologies, the emergence of new industry standards or changes in customer requirements could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. In addition, we introduce from time to time products with proprietary enhancements. Although we believe our products are fully compliant with applicable industry standards, proprietary enhancements may not in the future result in full conformance with existing industry standards under all circumstances. Our introduction of proprietary features involves risks associated with market acceptance of these new products and certification by industry standards groups. We have reviewed the rules and regulations of the various standards bodies and related industry organizations to which we belong or with which we are affiliated, and we believe there is not a significant risk that action would be taken that would undermine our ability to continue to leverage our affiliation with these organizations. The development of our products is highly complex. We occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could experience delays in the future. Unanticipated problems in developing wireless products could also divert substantial engineering resources, which may impair our ability to develop new products and enhancements and could substantially increase our costs. Even if the new and enhanced products are introduced to the market, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance of these products and our proprietary features in a timely manner. We face business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks because most of our operations and sales activities take place outside of the United States. A significant portion of our products is sold to customers outside the United States and Canada. Sales to customers in Asia have accounted for substantially all of our net revenue since 2003. Because most of our ODMs and our other direct customers are located in Asia, we anticipate that substantially all of our revenue will continue to be represented by sales to customers in that region. In addition, we conduct research and development activities in India, Taiwan, China and Finland and have sales, marketing and support personnel in Japan, Taiwan, Korea, Hong Kong, Macao, China, Germany and France. Approximately one-half of our total workforce is currently located in Asia. Our success depends upon continued expansion of our international operations. Our international business involves a number of risks, including: • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, tax laws, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations as well as cultural differences; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs that favor local competition in some countries; • difficulties of managing sales representatives, especially because we expect to increase our sales through our sales representatives; • inadequate local infrastructure and transportation delays; 21 Table of Contents • financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • failure by us or our customers to gain regulatory approval for use of our products; and • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, and political unrest, recurrence of the SARS, avian flu, or any other outbreak, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions. Also, there may be reluctance in some foreign markets to purchase products based on GPS technology, due to the control of GPS by the United States government. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future international sales and operations, and consequently, our revenue and results of operations and business and financial condition. We rely on a limited number of independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our chipsets and on a third party logistics provider to ship products to our customers. The failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We depend on five independent foundries to manufacture substantially all of our products. Our key silicon foundries for wafer production are Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation (TSMC) in Taiwan, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC) in China, Tower Semiconductor Ltd. in Israel, Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing in Singapore (Chartered) and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) in Taiwan. The failure of any of these five foundries to provide the necessary capacity or output for our products could result in significant production delays and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we currently believe we have adequate capacity to support our current sales levels, we continue to work with our existing foundries to obtain more production capacity, and we intend to qualify new foundries to provide additional production capacity. It is possible that from time to time adequate foundry capacity may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In the event a foundry experiences financial difficulties, or if a foundry suffers any damage to or destruction of its facilities, or in the event of any other disruption of foundry capacity, we may not be able to qualify alternative manufacturing sources for existing or new products in a timely manner. Our wafer probe testing is conducted by independent wafer probe test subcontractors. Following completion of the wafer probe tests, the die are assembled into packages and the finished products are tested by one of our key test and assembly subcontractors including, but not limited to, Amkor Technology, Inc. in China, Taiwan and Korea, Global Testing Corporation in Taiwan, Greatek Electronics, Inc. in Taiwan, Microelectronics Corp. in Taiwan, Siliconware Precision Industries Co., Ltd. in Taiwan, STATS ChipPAC Limited in Singapore, United Test and Assembly Center Ltd. in Singapore and Test-Serv, Inc. in Taiwan. We store and distribute our finished goods inventory from contracted warehouses in Hong Kong and Singapore. While we have not experienced material disruptions in supply from assembly subcontractors to date, we and others in our industry have experienced shortages in the supply of packaging materials from time to time, and we could experience shortages or assembly problems in the future. The availability of assembly and testing services from these subcontractors could be materially and adversely affected in the event a subcontractor experiences financial difficulties, or if a subcontractor suffers any damage to or destruction of its facilities, or in the event of any other disruption of assembly and testing capacity. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party manufacturing vendors and they may allocate capacity to other customers and may not allocate sufficient capacity to us to meet future demands for our products. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our third-party vendors. Therefore, they are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular accepted purchase order. None of our third-party foundry or assembly and test vendors has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demand for our products. During 2006, our manufacturing vendors experienced 22 Table of Contents production capacity constraints due to an upturn in the semiconductor market, and they may do so again in the future. Under these circumstances, these foundries and assembly and test vendors may allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice. In particular, other customers that are larger and better financed than us or that have long-term agreements with these foundries or assembly and test vendors may cause these foundries or assembly and test vendors to reallocate capacity to those customers, decreasing the capacity available to us. If we enter into costly arrangements with suppliers that include nonrefundable deposits or loans in exchange for capacity commitments, commitments to purchase specified quantities over extended periods or investment in a foundry, our operating results could be harmed. To date, we have not entered into such arrangements with our suppliers. If we need another integrated circuit foundry or assembly and test subcontractor because of increased demand, or the inability to obtain timely and adequate deliveries from our providers, we might not be able to cost-effectively and quickly retain other vendors to satisfy our requirements. If our third-party foundries or suppliers do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our relationships with our customers and our reputation will be harmed. The fabrication of chipsets is a complex and technically demanding process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. Our third-party foundries and suppliers have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. In addition, designing RF circuits using standard, complementary metal-oxide semiconductor processes is difficult and can result in unsatisfactory yields. Because we primarily purchase wafers, our exposure to low wafer yields from our foundries is increased. Poor yields from our foundries or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, or force us to sell our products at lower gross margins and therefore harm our financial results. In addition, manufacturing defects may not be detected by our testing, or may be caused by defective packaging of our products by our third-party suppliers. If these defects arise or are discovered after we have shipped our products, our reputation and business would suffer. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. If we fail to retain or expand customer relationships, our revenue could decline. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers, and we anticipate that we will continue to do so in the foreseeable future. These customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, to purchase fewer products than they did in the past, for example due to an increase in inventory, or to alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty. In the year ended December 31, 2007, Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. Ltd. accounted for 25% of our net revenue. In the year ended December 31, 2006, Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. Ltd. and UTStarcom, Inc accounted for 20% and 10% of our net revenue, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2005, Alpha Networks, Inc., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. Ltd., Cameo Communications, Inc., and Askey Computer Corporation accounted for 15%, 15%, 13% and 10% of our net revenue, respectively. Some of our OEM customers are also original design manufacturer (ODM) customers, which may increase the impact of the loss of any customer. We must obtain orders from new customers on an ongoing basis to increase our revenue and grow our business. Our largest customers are typically ODMs. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to OEMs that incorporate our products changing their designated ODM and the continued diversification of our OEM customer base in our current markets. We believe that sales will likely continue to fluctuate significantly in the future as we enter into new 23 Table of Contents markets. The loss of any significant customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, or any problems collecting receivables from them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we design some of our products to incorporate customer specifications. If our customers purchase fewer products than anticipated or if we lose a customer, we may not be able to sell these products to other customers, which would result in excess inventory and could negatively impact our operating results. Some of our customers could become our competitors. Some of our customers are also large integrated circuit suppliers and some of our large customers already have similar expertise in-house. These customers have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition, and a larger base of customers than we do. The process of licensing our technology to and support of such customers entails the transfer of technology that may enable them to become a source of competition to us, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot sell to some customers who compete with us. In addition, we compete with divisions within some of our customers. Further, each new design by a customer presents a competitive situation. In the past, we have lost design wins to divisions within our customers and this may occur again in the future. We cannot assure you that these customers will not continue to compete with us, that they will continue to be our customers or that they will continue to license products from us at the same volumes. Competition could increase pressure on us to lower our prices and could negatively impact our profit margins. We will have difficulty selling our products if customers do not design our products into their product offerings or if our customers’ product offerings are not commercially successful. We sell our products directly to OEMs, who include our chipsets in their products, and to ODMs, who include our chipsets in the products they supply to OEMs. Our products are generally incorporated into our customers’ products at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEMs to design our products into the products they sell. Without these design wins, our business would be materially and adversely affected. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that an OEM will select our product for design into its own product. Once an OEM designs a competitor’s product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Furthermore, even if an OEM designs one of our products into its product offering, we cannot be assured that its product will be commercially successful, that we will receive any revenue from that manufacturer or that a successor design will include one of our products. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. To remain competitive, we continually work to improve our chipsets and, in particular, our high-performance RF and wired networking products, to be manufactured using increasingly smaller geometries and to achieve higher levels of design integration. These ongoing efforts are costly and difficult and require us from time to time to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. To remain competitive, our chipsets must be redesigned from time to time, which may result in delays in product deliveries. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. For example, during 2007, we anticipate that a large number of our products will transition from the .18 micron geometry to .13 micron. In addition, while we purchase wafers from foundries, we also assume most of the yield risk related to manufacturing these wafers into die. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses in the future. We depend on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully and cannot assure that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition. If our foundries, or we, experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement these transitions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents We may experience a decrease in market demand or a supply disruption due to uncertain economic conditions in the United States and in international markets, including as a result of the concerns of terrorism, war and social, economic and political instability. In the recent past, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, uncertainties in the credit markets, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the wired and wireless communications markets, the ongoing effects of the war in Iraq, recent international conflicts and terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. In addition, terrorist acts or other conflicts or acts of war could disrupt product supply from our vendors in Israel or Asia, which could undermine our ability to provide products to our customers and harm our operating results. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic recovery, worldwide or in the wired and wireless communications markets. If the economy or the wired and wireless communications markets in which we operate do not continue at their present levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses from undetected defects, errors or bugs in hardware or software, which could reduce the market acceptance for our new products, damage our reputation with current or prospective customers and adversely affect our operating costs. Highly complex products such as our chipsets and the related reference designs we provide to our customers frequently contain defects, errors and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. We have in the past and may in the future experience these defects, errors and bugs. If any of our products have reliability, quality, or compatibility problems, we may not be able to successfully correct these problems. In addition, if any of our proprietary features contain defects, errors or bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released, we may be unable to correct these problems. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers and our financial results. In addition, these defects, errors or bugs could interrupt or delay sales to our customers. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recalls, repairs or replacement costs. These problems may also result in claims against us by our customers or others. Because we do not have long-term commitments from our customers, we must estimate customer demand, and errors in our estimates can have negative effects on our inventory levels, sales and operating results. Our sales are largely made on the basis of individual purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our customers have the right to cancel or defer some purchase orders. We have experienced in the past cancellations or deferrals of purchase orders, and additional cancellations and deferrals may occur from time to time. We have historically placed firm orders for products with our foundries up to approximately 16 weeks prior to the anticipated delivery date and typically prior to receiving an order for the product. Therefore, our order volumes are based on our forecasts of demand from our customers. This process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand or incorrectly estimate product mix, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect or at all. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would harm our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. On occasion, we have been unable to adequately respond to increases in customer purchase orders, 25 Table of Contents and therefore, were unable to complete, or needed to delay, sales. We have in the past, and may in the future, allocate our supply among our customers. Product allocation may result in the loss of current customers, and if we are unable to commit to provide specified quantities of products over a given period of time, we will not attract new customers. The failure to maintain customer relationships would decrease our revenue and harm our business. Although we achieved profitability in the last three fiscal years, we may not sustain or increase profitability in the future. During 2007, we incurred $172.4 million in operating expenses and generated net income of $40.0 million. During 2006, we incurred $125.9 million in operating expenses and generated net income of $18.7 million. During 2005, we incurred $75.5 million in operating expenses and generated net income of $16.7 million. We did, however, incur a net loss in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the second quarter of 2005 and may incur losses in the future. To sustain profitability, we will need to maintain or increase our revenue while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. In addition, since we expect average selling prices of our products to continue to decrease in the future, we will need to continue to reduce the average unit costs of our products and increase sales volumes in our existing markets as well as successfully introduce additional products for new markets in order to maintain profitability. We expect to increase expense levels in absolute dollars in each of the next several quarters to support increased research and development efforts related to new and existing product development and sales and marketing efforts. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short term, or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. If we do not sustain or increase profitability or otherwise meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. We recorded an impairment charge during the quarter ended December 31, 2007 to reduce the carrying value of certain auction-rate securities we hold, and we currently expect to incur additional impairment charges with respect to these securities in 2008. Credit concerns in the capital markets have significantly reduced our ability to liquidate auction-rate securities that we classify as available-for-sale securities on our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2007, we held auction-rate securities with a par value of $32.7 million. Auction-rate securities represent our interest in insurance capital notes, issued by special purpose entities sponsored by insurance companies. A portion of these securities are insured by third party bond insurers and are collateralized by tradable short-term corporate and government notes, bonds and commercial paper. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $2.3 million to reduce the value of our auction-rate securities to their estimated fair value of $30.4 million as of December 31, 2007. Since each of these securities had been subject to auction processes for which there had been insufficient bidders on the scheduled rollover dates and the auctions have subsequently failed, we have used a discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair value of these investments as of December 31, 2007. We have determined that as of January 31, 2008 the fair value of our auction-rate securities have further declined by an additional $3.5 million, reducing the estimated fair value to approximately $26.9 million. We expect the estimated fair value of these securities could decrease or increase significantly in the future based on market conditions. As a result, we currently expect to record an additional impairment charge during the quarter ending March 31, 2008, the amount of which will depend on the estimated fair value of our auction-rate securities as of March 31, 2008. In future periods, the estimated fair value of our auction-rate securities could decline further based on market conditions, which could result in additional impairment charges. These charges could be substantial. Potential problems with our information systems could interfere with our business and operations. We rely on our information systems and those of third parties for processing customer orders, shipping of products, billing our customers, tracking inventory, supporting accounting functions and financial statement 26 Table of Contents preparation, and otherwise running our business. Any disruption in our information systems and those of the third parties upon whom we rely could have a significant impact on our business. In addition, we are in the process of implementing enhanced information systems to meet the demands resulting from our growth and to provide additional capabilities and functionality. The implementation of new systems and enhancements is frequently disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise, and can be time consuming and expensive, increase management responsibilities and divert management attention. Any disruptions relating to our systems enhancements or any problems with the implementation, particularly any disruptions impacting our operations or our ability to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis during the implementation period, could adversely affect our business in a number of respects. Even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the implementation of these enhancements may be much more costly than we anticipated. If we are unable to successfully implement the information systems enhancements as planned, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be negatively impacted. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and could cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting rules and regulations. A change in those accounting rules can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, in December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123R which has required us, starting in our first quarter of 2006, to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. Since we historically used equity-related compensation as a component of our total employee compensation program, the accounting change could make the use of equity-related compensation less attractive to us and therefore make it more difficult to attract and retain employees. However, because we believe that providing equity-related compensation for our employees is a competitive necessity, we will likely incur significant and ongoing accounting charges resulting from option grants and other equity incentive expensing that could adversely affect our overall results of operations. Moreover, we have implemented the requirements of SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method and accordingly we have not restated prior period financial statements to reflect the historical impact of option grants. This may potentially cause readers of our financial statements to draw incorrect conclusions regarding our future operating performance since our financial statements going forward, which will reflect stock-based compensation expense, will not be comparable to our prior period financial statements that exclude stock-based compensation expense. Similarly, In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 , which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in tax positions. FIN 48 requires that we recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the position will be sustained upon examination. The provisions of FIN 48 became effective for us, and we implemented them, in the first quarter of 2007. This may potentially cause readers of our financial statements to draw incorrect conclusions regarding our future operating performance since our financial statements going forward, which will reflect the provisions of FIN 48, may not be comparable to our prior period financial statements that exclude its application. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results. Our future effective tax rate could be unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, since we operate in different countries and are subject to taxation in different jurisdictions, our future effective tax rates could be impacted by changes in such countries tax laws 27 Table of Contents or their interpretations. Both domestic and international tax laws are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, evolution of regulation and court rulings. The application of these tax laws and related regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Changes in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our net deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and practical tax planning strategies. On a periodic basis we evaluate our deferred tax asset balance for realizability. To the extent we believe it is more likely than not that some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we will increase the valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets. Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent primarily upon future U.S. taxable income. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we released a portion of the valuation allowance in the amount of $3.0 million, $1.9 million and $7.5 million, respectively, previously recorded against our deferred tax assets. These releases resulted in reduced tax provisions in the years recorded. We intend to evaluate acquisitions of or investments in businesses, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments. We plan to continually evaluate acquisitions of or investments in businesses that may offer complementary products and technologies, augment our market segment coverage, or enhance our technological capabilities, if appropriate opportunities arise. For example, in 2006, we acquired ZyDAS Technology Corporation, a privately held Taiwan-based fabless wireless IC design company, and Attansic Technology Corporation, a privately held Taiwan-based fabless Ethernet IC design company. In December 2007, we acquired u-Nav Microelectronics Corporation, a privately held United States-based fabless GPS IC design company. Risks arising from these or other future acquisitions or investments could include among other things: • our ability to accurately assess the business and prospects of an acquisition or the anticipated benefits of an acquisition; • delays in or failure to complete the development and application of the acquired technology or products; • our ability to successfully integrate acquired technologies, operations and personnel; • failure to achieve projected results of the acquisition; • disruption of our ongoing business; • diversion of management and employees’ attention from our business; • risks associated with entering into a geographic region or business market in which we have little or no prior experience and specifically managing personnel in these regions; • difficulties in establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • deficiencies in the internal control of any acquired company could result in a material weakness in our overall internal control; • our ability to recover costs of the acquisition or investment; • amortization expenses or impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets; • negative impact on our relationships with customers, suppliers or contractors; • loss of key employees of acquired business; and • potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities. 28 Table of Contents Future acquisitions could result in accounting charges, the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, deferred compensation charges, dilution to future earnings and amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and certain purchased intangible assets and large and immediate write-offs, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations and could cause our stock price to decline. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities in the future or be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions that are acceptable to us, if at all. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue or increase our costs. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on our technology, which could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenue. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies or may be held invalid or unenforceable in court. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as United States law. Any patents we have obtained, or may obtain in the future, may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Our competitors may independently develop or may have already developed similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be required to license our patents as a result of our participation in various standards organizations. We maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. However, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or successfully deter infringement by third parties. We license our software under signed license agreements, which impose restrictions on the licensee’s ability to utilize the software. We protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. Further, we cannot be sure that steps we take to protect our proprietary information will prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, we may not receive effective protection of our intellectual property rights in foreign countries to the same extent as in the United States. Certain of our and our suppliers’ software may contain or may be derived from open source software. License for such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. For example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, or license such derivative works under a particular type of license different than what we customarily used to protect our intellectual property. We cannot be sure that steps we take to protect our proprietary information will prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, we may not receive effective protection of our intellectual property rights in foreign countries to the same extent as in the United States. Our business and operating result could be negatively impacted if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights. Because we license some of our software source code directly to customers, we face increased risks that our trade secrets will be exposed through inadvertent or intentional disclosure, which could harm our competitive position or increase our costs. We license some of our software source code to our customers, which increases the number of people who have access to some of our trade secrets and other proprietary rights. Contractual obligations of our licensees and their sublicensees not to disclose or misuse our source code may not be sufficient to protect us from disclosure or misuse. The costs of enforcing contractual rights could substantially increase our operating costs and may not ultimately succeed in protecting our proprietary rights. If our competitors access our source code, they may gain further insight into the technology and design of our products, which would harm our competitive position. 29 Table of Contents Intellectual property litigation, which is common in our industry, could be costly, harm our reputation, limit our ability to license or sell our proprietary technologies or products and divert the attention of management and technical personnel. The wireless, and wired communications markets are characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received, and we may continue to receive, written notices or offers from our competitors and others claiming to have patent and other intellectual property rights in certain technology and inviting us to license this technology and related patents that apply to the IEEE family of wireless local area networking standards, including the 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11e, 802.11g and 802.11n wireless standards as well as other technology and patents relevant to our chips, software and system solutions. These notices or offers have been made directly to us and through our U.S. and foreign customers and strategic partners. Moreover, we are currently engaged in litigation with parties that claim our products infringe their patents as discussed in Part I, Item 3 of this Report. We have indemnification obligations to our customers and strategic partners with respect to infringement of third-party patents and intellectual property rights by our products. We have responded, or are in the process of responding, directly, or indirectly through our customers and strategic partners, to all of these notices and allegations, and continue to correspond regarding the offers with some of the parties that have sent the notices. Questions of infringement and misappropriation in our markets involve highly technical and subjective analyses. Litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents we may receive and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, and we may not prevail in any future litigation. Our business could be harmed as a result of litigation, offers to license or claims of infringement. Litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from normal business operations. In addition, adverse determinations in litigation could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, and require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from licensing our technology or selling our products, any of which could seriously harm our business. Any of these consequences could result from litigation whether initiated by our competitors or others, including those that have already sent notices or offers to us and our customers claiming patent rights and offering licenses. Any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could also include our industry partners and customers, which could trigger our indemnification obligations to them and result in substantial expense to us. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our customers or licensees could also become the target of litigation, and certain customers have received notices of written offers from our competitors and others claiming to have patent rights in certain technology and inviting our customers to license this technology. Several of our customers have been sued in the U.S. for allegedly infringing patents related to 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11g and draft 802.11n technology. Because we may indemnify our customers for intellectual property claims made against them for products incorporating our technology, any litigation could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our license or sales agreements, which could result in substantial expenses. In addition to the time and expense required for us to supply support or indemnification to our customers, any such litigation could severely disrupt or shut down the business of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause the sale of our proprietary technologies and products to decrease. Our headquarters are located in California, and we have sales offices throughout Asia, and research and development facilities in India, Taiwan and China. Our third-party foundries and subcontractors are concentrated in Asia and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim and Israel. These areas are subject to significant weather and earthquake-related risks. Any disruption to the operations of these offices, foundries and subcontractors resulting from typhoons, earthquakes or other natural disasters could cause significant delays in the production, shipment and sales of our products. 30 Table of Contents TSMC, SMIC, Chartered and UMC, which manufacture our chipsets and subcontractors which perform substantially all of our assembly and testing, are located in Asia. Tower Semiconductor Ltd. which also manufactures our chipsets and also performs assembly and testing is located in Israel. In addition, our headquarters are located in Northern California, and we have sales offices in Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong, China and elsewhere in Asia, and research and development facilities in Southern California, India, Taiwan and China and administrative offices in Macao. These areas are subject to typhoons, and the risk of an earthquake or an earthquake-related disaster such as a tsunami in the Pacific Rim region, the Indian Ocean region, or the Middle East, is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines. In the past, major earthquakes in Taiwan have disrupted the facilities of several of these third-party contractors, as well as other providers of these services, and impaired their production capacity. In addition, a tsunami in December 2004 caused widespread destruction and disruption of business in India and throughout the Indian Ocean coastal region. The occurrence of additional earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in the disruption of our foundry, assembly and test capacity or research and development efforts, or our ability to market and sell our products. We may not be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms, if at all and our research and development efforts could be slowed. We rely upon third parties for technology that is integrated into some of our products, and if we are unable to continue to use this technology and future technology or the technology fails to operate, our ability to sell technologically advanced products would be limited. We rely on third parties for technology that is integrated into some of our products. If we are unable to continue to use or license on reasonable terms third-party technologies used in some of our products or the technology fails to operate, we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner and our business would be harmed. If our internal control over financial reporting does not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, investor perceptions of our company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expense and to devote significant management resources to Section 404 compliance. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions of our company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business. Wireless networks can only operate in the frequency bands, or spectrum, allowed by regulators and in accordance with rules governing how the spectrum can be used. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in the United States, as well as regulators in foreign countries, have broad jurisdiction over the allocation of frequency bands for wireless networks. We therefore rely on the FCC and international regulators to provide sufficient spectrum and usage rules. For example, countries such as China, Japan or Korea heavily regulate all aspects of their wireless communications industries, and may restrict spectrum allocation or usage, or may impose requirements that render our products or our customers’ products unmarketable in these jurisdictions. If this were to occur, it would make it difficult for us to sell our products in that region. In addition, some of our chipsets operate in the 5 GHz band, which is also used by government and commercial services such as military and commercial aviation. The FCC and European regulators have traditionally protected government uses of the 5 GHz bands by setting power limits and indoor and outdoor designation and requiring that wireless local area networking devices not interfere with other users of the band such as government and civilian satellite services. 31 Table of Contents In addition, GPS technology is restricted and its export is controlled. Our business may be impacted by both domestic and international regulations because our technology relies on the GPS satellite network and radio frequency bands. For example, the United States government may restrict specific uses of GPS technology in some applications for privacy or other reasons and block the civilian GPS signal at any time or in hostile areas. In December 2004, the President of the United States authorized a new national policy that established guidance and implementation actions for space-based positioning, navigation, timing programs, augmentations and activities for United States national and homeland security, civil, scientific, and commercial purposes with which our products comply. Further, radio frequency bands are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency bands are made by the International Telecommunications Union, a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are also governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and are subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Further, the FCC continually receives proposals for new technologies and services that may seek to operate in, or across, the radio frequency bands currently used by GPS and other public services. Changes in current laws or regulations, reversal of usage rights, or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere that regulate our products or our customers’ products or the industries in which we operate may materially and adversely impact the sale of our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Personal privacy concerns may limit the growth of the high-volume consumer and commercial GPS-based applications and demand for our GPS products. GPS-based consumer and commercial applications rely on the ability to receive, analyze and store location information. Consumers may not accept some GPS applications because of the fact that their location can be tracked by others and that this information could be collected and stored. Also, federal and state governments may disallow specific uses of GPS technology for privacy or other reasons or could subject this industry to regulation. If consumers view GPS-based applications as a threat to their privacy, demand for some GPS-based products could decline, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Rapidly changing standards could make our products obsolete, which would cause our operating results to suffer. We design some of our products to conform to standards set by industry standards bodies such as the IEEE. We also depend on industry groups such as the WiFi Alliance to certify and maintain certification of our products. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible, or such industry groups fail to adopt standards with which our products are compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers and our sales would suffer. The emergence of markets for our chipsets is affected by a variety of factors beyond our control. In particular, our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards. Competing standards may emerge that are preferred by our customers, which could also reduce our sales and require us to make significant expenditures to develop new products. For example, the IEEE has adopted a draft 802.11n specification after considering many different proposals for the 802.11n standard and we have developed products based on this draft specification. If the IEEE does not adopt the current draft 802.11n standard or if we are unable to complete development of compliant products based on the draft or final specifications on a timely basis, we will lose customers and revenue and our business will be harmed. 32 Table of Contents If our customers or the industries using wireless technology prefer to integrate wireless capability into other products in which we do not specialize, we may not be able to compete effectively and we will lose customers and our revenue will decline and our business will be harmed. We have adopted the strategy of maintaining wireless technology on a chipset that is separate from functionality contained on other chips within a product. Our customers or the industries using wireless technology may prefer to integrate wireless capability into other products such as DSL modems, or determine that an integrated chip with multiple functionality results in products that perform better or are less expensive or more efficient to manufacture. If wireless functionality becomes commonly integrated with other functionality, the market for our products may decline. Consequently, we may miss product cycles in order to redesign our products, and we may not be able to forge strategic relationships necessary in order to design and arrange for the production of chips that include multiple functionality. If we miss product cycles, we will lose customers, our revenue will decline and our business will be harmed. The proliferation of wireless devices may expand beyond the capacity of the channels available in the 2.4GHz or 5 GHz bands, which may overload the networks and result in decreased market demand for our products. Wireless networks currently operate in the 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz bands, within which there are a limited number of channels available for use. The increasing number of wireless devices and networks may overburden the frequency bands and overload the networks. Recent studies have predicted that congestion in the 2.4 GHz band could result from the increasing number of wireless devices using that band with limited channel availability. If this occurs, our customers or the industries in which we operate may be adversely affected because the networks become inoperable or because only a limited number of devices will be able to access the networks. In turn, we may experience a decrease in market demand for our products that would adversely impact our business and results of operations. Because the NASDAQ Global Select Market is likely to continue to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, the price of our stock may decline. Since we completed our initial public offering in February 2004, the market price of our shares has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or technological innovations; • introduction and adoption of new industry standards; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in the market valuations of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or partnerships; and • sales of our common stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may negatively impact the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and semiconductor companies in particular, have been highly volatile. Our common stock may not trade at the same levels of shares as that of other semiconductor and technology companies, and shares of semiconductor and technology companies, in general, may not sustain their current market prices. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its 33 Table of Contents securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and existing amounts available under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: • market acceptance of our products; • the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; • the existence of opportunities for expansion; and • access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing and there is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; • the establishment of a classified board of directors requiring that not all members of the board be elected at one time; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of the board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; • the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors and the ability of stockholders to take action; • the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors for cause; and 34 Table of Contents • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than they would without these provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 