ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to our Indebtedness Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations to our debtholders. As of December 31, 2010, we had consolidated debt of $625.0 million, $431.6 million of which was senior indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the debtholders. Our substantial indebtedness, any new indebtedness we may incur and the resulting reduction in our available cash could also: • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund investments, capital expenditures, working capital and for other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to make required payments under our existing contractual commitments (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”); • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt than we have; • create a perception that we may not continue to support and develop certain products or services; 12 Table of Contents • increase our exposure to rising interest rates because a significant portion of our borrowings is at variable interest rates; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, including interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot be sure that any refinancing would be possible or that any assets could be sold on acceptable terms or otherwise. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations under our senior secured credit facility and senior subordinated notes. Revolving and term loans under the senior secured credit facility will mature in May of 2012 and 2013, respectively, and our senior subordinated notes will mature in May of 2014. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations, and would depend upon the condition of the finance and credit markets. Despite our level of indebtedness, our current credit arrangements allow us to incur substantially more debt. Incurring such debt could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition. Although the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility each contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. The indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, we are able to incur additional indebtedness if the “fixed charge coverage ratio,” as defined in the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes is above 2 to 1 for the periods set forth in the indenture, and, under certain circumstances, if the indebtedness is of a person acquired by us and we did not incur the indebtedness in contemplation of the acquisition. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, we may incur additional indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding of at least $50.0 million. As of December 31, 2010, we would have been able to borrow an additional $49.0 million under our senior secured credit facility, and we and the subsidiary guarantors may be able to incur additional senior debt in the future, including under the senior secured credit facility. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks we face related to our substantial leverage would increase. The indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facility contain financial and other covenants that limit our flexibility and prevent us from taking certain actions. The indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility include a number of significant restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet our capital needs and execute our business strategy. These covenants, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase capital stock; • issue capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • make certain investments; • sell assets; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; • engage in material unrelated businesses; • incur certain liens; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. 13 Table of Contents In addition, the credit agreement’s restrictions on us and the subsidiary guarantors are stricter than the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes. Examples of such restrictions are as follows: • The scope of permitted liens under the credit agreement is narrower than under the indenture. For example, the indenture permits us to incur liens to secure up to $5.0 million of additional permitted indebtedness, while the credit agreement permits us to incur liens to secure only up to $1.0 million of additional permitted indebtedness. • The credit agreement contains a general prohibition on restricted payments subject to certain exceptions, while the indenture permits us to make restricted payments up to an amount that is based, in part, on our cumulative consolidated net income since the date of the indenture. • The credit agreement generally prohibits the incurrence of additional indebtedness subject to certain exceptions, while the indenture permits us to incur additional indebtedness provided we maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of 2:1. • The credit agreement requires us to maintain an agreed consolidated interest coverage ratio and consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter. There is no comparable requirement in the indenture. • The credit agreement prohibits us from making dispositions of our property other than for cash and not in excess of $2.0 million in net book value in any fiscal year. The indenture does not prohibit such dispositions, but requires us to apply the net proceeds therefrom to repay senior debt, make certain investments or expenditures, and otherwise repay our senior subordinated notes. • The credit agreement prohibits us from prepaying our other debt, including our senior subordinated notes, while borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are outstanding. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their scheduled due date. If we were unable to make this repayment or otherwise refinance these borrowings, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable, which would be an event of default under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes. In addition, these lenders could foreclose on our assets. Any future refinancing of the senior secured credit facility is likely to contain similar restrictive covenants and financial tests. Substantially all of our operations are conducted at the subsidiary level, which may materially adversely affect our ability to service our indebtedness. Our principal assets are the equity interests we hold, directly and indirectly, in our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and have no obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available to us for such payment, other than through guarantees of our debt. Because much of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries, our ability to service our indebtedness depends upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings, or upon loans or other payments of funds, by our subsidiaries to us. Although our credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility and the indenture that governs our senior subordinated notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries to enter into covenant restrictions on their ability to pay dividends and make other payments to us, these limitations are subject to a number of significant qualifications. If our subsidiaries do not have sufficient earnings or cannot distribute their earnings or other funds to us, our ability to service our indebtedness may be materially adversely affected. Our senior subordinated notes and the related guarantees are subordinated in right of payment to all of our and the subsidiary guarantors’ existing and future senior debt, and are effectively subordinated to all of our and the subsidiary guarantors’ existing and future secured debt. Our senior subordinated notes and the related guarantees rank junior in right of payment to all of our existing and future senior debt, including the borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, and all existing creditors and future senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $431.6 million of debt that was senior to our senior subordinated notes and $49.0 million of additional borrowing available under our senior secured credit facility. We may also incur additional senior or secured debt in the future, consistent with the terms of the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and our other debt agreements. As a result of the subordination, upon any distribution to creditors in a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization or similar proceeding, the holders of our senior debt or senior debt of any of our subsidiary guarantors will be entitled to be paid in full before we or our subsidiary guarantors make any payment on our senior subordinated notes or related guarantees. Holders of our secured debt and the secured debt of any of our subsidiary guarantors similarly will have claims that are prior to claims of holders of our 14 Table of Contents senior subordinated notes to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt. The indenture governing the senior subordinated notes requires that amounts otherwise payable to holders of the notes in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding be paid to holders of senior debt instead. As a result, holders of our senior subordinated notes may receive less, ratably, than other creditors. We cannot be sure that sufficient assets will remain after making payments on our senior or secured debt to allow us to make any payments on our senior subordinated notes. We may not pay principal, premium, if any, interest or other amounts to the holders of our senior subordinated notes in the event of a payment default or other defaults permitting the acceleration of our designated senior indebtedness, including debt under the senior secured credit facility, unless the designated senior indebtedness has been paid in full, the default has been cured or, in the case of any such nonpayment defaults, a designated period of time has passed. Fraudulent conveyance laws could void the guarantees of our senior subordinated notes. Under U.S. bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a guarantee could be voided, or claims in respect of a guarantee could be subordinated to all other debts of that guarantor if, among other things, the subsidiary guarantor, at the time it incurred the indebtedness evidenced by its guarantee either (i) intended to hinder, delay or defraud any present or future creditor; or (ii) received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the incurrence of the guarantee and (a) was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the incurrence of the guarantee; (b) was engaged in a business or transaction for which the subsidiary guarantor’s remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or (c) intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. Moreover, any payments made by a subsidiary guarantor pursuant to its guarantee could be voided and required to be returned to the subsidiary guarantor, or to a fund for the benefit of the creditors of the subsidiary guarantor. To the extent that any guarantee is voided as a fraudulent conveyance, the claims of holders of our senior subordinated notes with respect to such guarantee would be materially adversely affected. In addition, a legal challenge of a guarantee on fraudulent transfer grounds will focus on, among other things, the benefits, if any, realized by the relevant subsidiary guarantor as a result of the issuance of our senior subordinated notes. The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws will vary depending upon the governing law. Generally, however, a subsidiary guarantor would be considered insolvent if: • the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets; or • the present fair saleable value of its assets were less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. On the basis of historical financial information, recent operating history and other factors, we believe that the subsidiary guarantees have been incurred for proper purposes and in good faith and that each subsidiary guarantor, after giving effect to its guarantee of our senior subordinated notes, is not insolvent, does not have unreasonably small capital for the business in which it is engaged and has not incurred debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. There can be no assurance, however, as to what standard a court would apply in making such determinations or that a court would agree with our conclusions in this regard. The interests of our stockholders may not be aligned with the interests of the holders of our senior subordinated notes. All of our issued and outstanding equity interests are held indirectly by iPayment Investors, a limited partnership controlled jointly by Gregory S. Daily, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Carl A. Grimstad, our President. Messrs. Daily and Grimstad own substantially all of the economic interests in iPayment Investors, and are the sole members of the board of directors of its general partner and our board of directors. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of iPayment Investors and its equity holders could be in conflict with the interests of the holders of our senior subordinated notes. Moreover, iPayment Investors’ equity holders may have interests in their other respective investments that could also be in conflict with the interests of the holders of our senior subordinated notes. In addition, iPayment Investors may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to holders of our senior subordinated notes. For example, iPayment Investors and its equity holders may cause us to pursue a growth strategy (including acquisitions which are not accretive to earnings), which could impact our ability to make payments under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and the senior secured credit facility or cause a change of control. In July 2006, iPayment Investors issued $75.0 million of notes payable in 2014, which are subordinated to all debt issued by us, and the net proceeds of which were used by iPayment Investors to pay a dividend to its equity holders. To the extent permitted by the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and the senior secured credit facility, iPayment Investors may cause us to pay dividends rather than make capital expenditures. 15 Table of Contents In the event of a change of control, we may not be able to repurchase our senior subordinated notes as required by the indenture, which would result in a default under our indenture. Upon a change of control under the indenture, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our senior subordinated notes then outstanding at a purchase price equal to not less than 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, up to but excluding the repurchase date. Our senior secured credit facility provides that certain change of control events will be an event of default that will permit the required lenders to accelerate the maturity of all borrowings thereunder and terminate commitments to lend thereunder. An acceleration of the maturity of our senior secured credit facility would result in an event of default under our indenture. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar provisions. We cannot be sure that we will have the financial resources to repurchase the senior subordinated notes, particularly if that change of control event triggers a similar repurchase requirement for, or results in the acceleration of other indebtedness. Our senior secured credit facility also prohibits us from redeeming or repurchasing our senior subordinated notes if a default exists under the senior secured credit facility and if we do not meet specified leverage ratios. See Risk Factors “—A change of control under our senior secured credit facility could cause a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations” and “—A change of control under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes could cause a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations” below. A change of control under our senior secured credit facility could cause a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. Our senior secured credit facility provides that certain change of control events will result in an event of default, including the following: • Gregory S. Daily, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Carl A. Grimstad, our President, and certain other investors (collectively, the “Permitted Holders”) cease to beneficially own equity interests in iPayment Holdings, Inc. (“Holdings”) representing more than 50% of its voting equity interests; • during any period of twelve consecutive months, a majority of Holdings’ board of directors ceases to be composed of individuals who were members of Holdings’ board of directors at the beginning of such period or who were elected or nominated by such members or appointees of such members who constituted at least a majority of the board of directors at the time of such election or nomination; • Gregory S. Daily and certain trusts controlled by Mr. Daily cease to beneficially own or control at least a majority of the equity interests in Holdings or any parent company beneficially owned by the Permitted Holders; or • a “change of control” occurs under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes (described below). In May 2009, a jury in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles handed down a verdict in the amount of $300 million, plus punitive damages in the amount of $50 million, against Mr. Daily, our Chief Executive Officer, in connection with litigation (the “Daily Litigation”) over Mr. Daily’s beneficial ownership in us. This lawsuit was brought against Mr. Daily individually and not in his capacity as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or Director of the Company. Neither the Company, nor any other shareholders, officers, employees or directors were a party to this action. The Company has no indemnification, reimbursement or any other contractual obligation to Mr. Daily in connection with this legal matter. In response to the verdict, Mr. Daily filed for personal bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in Nashville, Tennessee. On April 8, 2010, the bankruptcy court ordered the appointment of a trustee to administer the estate of Mr. Daily. The appointment of a trustee by the bankruptcy court could result in one or more of the change of control events under our senior secured credit facility, which would constitute an event of default under our senior secured credit facility. An event of default resulting from a change of control permits the required lenders to accelerate the maturity of our borrowings and terminate commitments to lend. An acceleration of our senior secured credit facility would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and could result in the acceleration of the senior subordinated notes. If an event of default under our senior secured credit facility were to occur, we could seek the consent of the required lenders to waive the event of default or attempt to refinance such facility. There can be no assurance that we would be able to do so. Market conditions at the time such waiver or refinancing is sought may make it particularly difficult and expensive to obtain any such waiver or to refinance our existing debt and, if we were able to do so, our indebtedness may subject us to more onerous terms. These consequences of a change of control, including with respect to the appointment of a trustee to administer the estate of Mr. Daily, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. 16 Table of Contents The preceding description only purports to summarize the “change of control” provisions and the consequences of a “change of control” under our senior secured credit facility. This description is qualified in its entirety by reference to our senior secured credit facility, which was filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form S-4 on July 21, 2006. A change of control under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes could cause a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. A “change of control” under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes requires us to offer to repurchase all of our senior subordinated notes then outstanding at a purchase price equal to not less than 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, up to but excluding the repurchase date. A “change of control” includes the following events: • any “person” or “group” other than one or more of the Permitted Holders or a parent company becomes the beneficial owner of (i) 35% or more of the voting power of our voting stock and (ii) more of the voting power of our voting stock than that beneficially owned by the Permitted Holders; or • a majority of the members of our board of directors cease to be “continuing directors”; The Daily Litigation, or the appointment of a trustee by the bankruptcy court, described above under the risk factor “—A change of control under our senior secured credit facility could cause a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations,” could result in one or more of the change of control events described above. Upon the occurrence of a change of control, our senior secured credit facility will, subject to certain exceptions, prohibit us from purchasing our senior subordinated notes. In the event a change of control occurs at a time when we are prohibited from purchasing our senior subordinated notes, we could attempt to seek the consent of the required lenders under our senior secured credit facility to effect such purchase or could attempt to refinance our senior secured credit facility. If we do not obtain such a consent or are unable to refinance our senior secured credit facility, we will remain prohibited from purchasing our senior subordinated notes. This would result in an event of default under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes. In such circumstances, the subordination provisions in the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes would likely restrict payments to holders of our senior subordinated notes. The market conditions may make it difficult or expensive to obtain consents or waivers with respect to our senior secured credit facility or indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, refinance our debt or raise the funds necessary to purchase tendered senior subordinated notes. If we are able to do so, the cost of our financing could materially increase and our indebtedness may subject us to more onerous terms. These consequences of a change of control under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. The preceding description only purports to summarize the “change of control” provisions and the consequences of a “change of control” under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes. This description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, which was filed with the SEC as Exhibit 4.1 to our Form S-4 on July 21, 2006. Changes in the financial and credit markets or in our credit ratings could adversely affect the market prices of our senior secured credit facility and our senior subordinated notes. The market prices of our senior secured credit facility and our senior subordinated notes depend on a number of factors, including: • the prevailing interest rates being paid by companies similar to us; • our ratings with major credit rating agencies; and • the overall condition of the financial and credit markets. The condition of the financial and credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Fluctuations in these factors have had adverse effects on the market prices of our senior secured credit facility and our senior subordinated notes, and further fluctuation may continue these adverse effects. In addition, credit rating agencies continually revise their ratings for companies that they follow, including us. We cannot be sure that any credit rating agencies that rate the senior secured credit facility and senior subordinated notes will maintain their ratings on our credit instruments. A negative change in our rating could have an adverse effect on the market price of the senior secured credit facility and the senior subordinated notes. Historically, the market for non-investment grade debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of securities similar to the senior subordinated notes. The market for the senior subordinated notes, if any, may be subject to similar disruptions. Any such disruptions may adversely affect the value of the senior subordinated notes. 17 Table of Contents We cannot be sure that an active trading market will be maintained for our senior subordinated notes. There is no public market for the senior subordinated notes. We do not intend to apply for a listing of any of the senior subordinated notes on any securities exchange. We do not know if an active market will develop for the senior subordinated notes, or if developed, will continue. If an active market is not developed or maintained, the market price and the liquidity of the senior subordinated notes may be adversely affected. In addition, the liquidity and the market price of the senior subordinated notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for high yield securities and by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or in the prospects of the companies in our industry. Risks Relating to Our Business Any new or changes made to laws, regulations, card network rules or other industry standards affecting our business may have an adverse impact on our financial results. We are subject to numerous regulations that affect the electronic payments industry. Regulation and proposed regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with regulations may have an adverse effect on our business, including the limitation, suspension or termination of services provided to, or by, third parties, and the imposition of penalties, including fines. We are also subject to U.S. financial services regulations, numerous consumer protection laws, escheat regulations, and privacy and information security regulations, among others. Changes to legal rules and regulations, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a negative financial effect on the Company. We are also subject to the rules of Visa, MasterCard and various other credit and debit networks. Furthermore, we are subject to the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008, which requires information returns to be made by merchant acquiring entities for each calendar year starting in 2011. Interchange fees, which are typically paid by the acquirer to the issuer in connection with transactions, are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory, and legislative scrutiny. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which was signed into law in July 2010, significantly changes the U.S. financial regulatory system, including by regulating debit card fees charged by issuer banks and allowing merchants to offer discounts for different payment methods. The impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company is difficult to estimate, particularly with regard to debt fees, because regulations need to be developed by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulations have yet to be implemented. Regulatory actions such as these, even if not directed at us, may require us to make significant efforts to change our products and services and may require that we change how we price our services to customers. These regulations may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business or operations, either directly or indirectly. We have faced, and may face in the future, significant chargeback liability and liability for merchant or customer fraud, which we may not be able to accurately anticipate. We have potential liability for chargebacks associated with the transactions we process. If a billing dispute between a merchant and a cardholder is not ultimately resolved in favor of the merchant, the disputed transaction is “charged back” to the merchant’s bank and credited to the account of the cardholder. If we or our sponsoring banks are unable to collect the chargeback from the merchant’s account, or, if the merchant refuses or is financially unable (due to bankruptcy or other reasons) to reimburse the merchant’s bank for the chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder’s bank. We also have potential liability for losses caused by fraudulent card-based payment transactions. Card fraud occurs when a merchant’s customer uses a stolen card (or a stolen card number in a card-not-present transaction) to purchase merchandise or services. In a traditional card-present transaction, if the merchant swipes the card, receives authorization for the transaction from the card issuing bank and verifies the signature on the back of the card against the paper receipt signed by the customer, the card issuing bank remains liable for any loss. In a fraudulent card-not-present transaction, even if the merchant receives authorization for the transaction, the merchant is liable for any loss arising from the transaction. Many of the small merchants that we serve are small businesses that transact a substantial percentage of their sales in card-not-present transactions over the Internet or in response to telephone or mail orders, which makes these merchants more vulnerable to customer fraud than larger merchants. Because substantially all of the merchants we serve are small merchants, we experience chargebacks arising from cardholder fraud more frequently than providers of payment processing services that service larger merchants. Merchant fraud occurs when a merchant, rather than a customer, knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit card or card number to record a false sales transaction, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Anytime a merchant is unable to satisfy a chargeback, we are responsible for that chargeback. We have established systems and procedures to detect and reduce the impact of merchant fraud, but we cannot be sure that these measures are or will be effective. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase our chargeback liability. Charges incurred by us relating to merchant losses were $3.5 million, or 0.5% of revenues in 2010, and were $4.9 million, or 0.7% of revenues, in 2009. 18 Table of Contents We rely on bank sponsors, which have substantial discretion with respect to certain elements of our business practices, in order to process bankcard transactions. If these sponsorships are terminated and we are not able to secure or successfully migrate merchant portfolios to new bank sponsors, we will not be able to conduct our business. Because we are not a bank, we are unable to belong to and directly access the Visa and MasterCard bankcard associations. Visa and MasterCard operating regulations require us to be sponsored by a bank in order to process bankcard transactions. We are currently registered with Visa and MasterCard through the sponsorship of banks that are members of the card associations. The principal sponsoring bank through which we process the significant majority of our transactions is Wells Fargo. The initial term of our agreement with Wells Fargo lasts through December 2014 and will thereafter automatically continue unless either party provides the other at least six months notice of its intent to terminate. Our sponsoring banks may terminate their agreements with us if we materially breach the agreements and do not cure the breach within an established cure period, if our membership with Visa or MasterCard terminates, if we enter bankruptcy or file for bankruptcy, or if applicable laws or regulations, including Visa and MasterCard regulations, change to prevent either the applicable bank or us from performing services under the agreement. If these sponsorships are terminated and we are unable to secure a bank sponsor, we will not be able to process bankcard transactions. Furthermore, our agreements with our sponsoring banks provide the sponsoring banks with substantial discretion in approving certain elements of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants, the terms of our agreements with merchants, the processing fees that we charge, our customer service levels and our use of ISGs. We cannot guarantee that our sponsoring banks’ actions under these agreements will not be detrimental to us, nor can we provide assurance that any of our sponsoring banks will not terminate their sponsorship of us in the future. If we or our bank sponsors fail to adhere to the standards of the Visa and MasterCard payment card associations, our registrations with these associations could be terminated, and we could be required to stop providing payment processing services for Visa and MasterCard. Substantially all of the transactions we process involve Visa or MasterCard. If we or our bank sponsors fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa or MasterCard payment card associations, Visa or MasterCard could suspend or terminate our registration. The termination of our registration or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair our registration could prevent us from providing payment processing services. We rely on third party processors and service providers; if they fail or no longer agree to provide their services, our merchant relationships could be adversely affected and we could lose business. We rely on agreements with several large payment processing organizations to enable us to provide card authorization, data capture, settlement and merchant accounting services and access to various reporting tools for the merchants we serve. In particular, we rely on FDMS with whom we have agreed, pursuant to the terms of our agreement with FDMS, to process at least 75% of our annual transactions. We are required to pay FDMS an annual processing fee through 2011 related to the FDMS Merchant Portfolio and the FDMS Bank Portfolio. The minimum fee for 2011 will be at least 70% of such fee paid to FDMS in 2010, or at least $3.8 million. Our gross margins would be adversely affected if we were required to pay this minimum fee as a result of insufficient transactions processed by FDMS. We also outsource to third parties other services, such as reorganizing and accumulating daily transaction data on a merchant-by-merchant and card issuer-by-card issuer basis and forwarding the accumulated data to the relevant bankcard associations. Many of these organizations and service providers are our competitors, and we do not have long-term contracts with most of them. Typically, our contracts with these third parties are for one-year and are subject to cancellation upon limited notice by either party. The termination by our service providers of their arrangements with us or their failure to perform their services efficiently and effectively may adversely affect our relationships with the merchants whose accounts we serve and may cause those merchants to terminate their processing agreements with us. To acquire and retain merchant accounts, we depend on ISGs that do not serve us exclusively. We rely primarily on the efforts of ISGs to market our services to merchants seeking to establish a credit card processing relationship. ISGs are companies that seek to introduce both newly-established and existing small merchants, including, but not limited to, retailers, restaurants and other service providers to us and other providers of transaction payment processing services. Generally, our agreements with ISGs that refer merchants to us are not exclusive and they have the right to refer merchants to other service providers. Our failure to maintain our relationships with our existing ISGs and to recruit and establish new relationships with other groups could adversely affect our revenues and internal growth and increase our merchant attrition. 19 Table of Contents Periodically, we experience increases in interchange costs; if we cannot pass these increases along to our merchants, our profit margins will be reduced. We pay interchange fees and assessments to card associations for each transaction we process using their credit and debit cards. From time to time, the card associations increase the interchange fees that they charge processors and the sponsoring banks. At their sole discretion, our sponsoring banks have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees on to us. In addition, our sponsoring banks may seek to increase their Visa and MasterCard sponsorship fees to us, all of which are based upon the dollar amount of the payment transactions we process. If we are not able to pass these fee increases along to merchants through corresponding increases in our processing fees, our profit margins will be reduced. Unauthorized disclosure of merchant and cardholder data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to protracted and costly litigation. We may collect and store limited data about merchants and their principal owners, including names, addresses, social security numbers, drivers license numbers, checking and savings account numbers, and payment history records. In addition, we maintain a limited database of cardholder data relating to specific transactions, including card numbers and cardholder addresses, in order to process the transactions, for fraud prevention and other internal processes. If a person penetrates our network security or otherwise misappropriates sensitive merchant or cardholder data, we could be subject to liability or business interruption. Although we generally require that our agreements with our ISGs and other service providers who may have access to merchant and customer data include confidentiality obligations that restrict these parties from using or disclosing any customer or merchant data except as necessary to perform their services under the applicable agreements, we cannot guarantee that these contractual measures will prevent the unauthorized disclosure of merchant or customer data by the ISGs or service providers. In addition, our agreements with financial institutions (as well as card association requirements) require us to take certain protective measures to ensure the confidentiality of merchant and consumer data. Any failure to adequately comply with these protective measures could result in fees, penalties and/or litigation. The loss of key personnel or damage to their reputations could adversely affect our relationships with ISGs, card associations, bank sponsors and our other service providers, which would adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon the continued services of our senior management and other key employees, all of whom have substantial experience in the payment processing industry and the small merchant markets in which we offer our services. In addition, our success depends in large part upon the reputation and influence within the industry of our senior managers who have, over the years, developed long standing and favorable relationships with ISGs, card associations, bank sponsors and other payment processing and service providers. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior managers or other key employees or damage to their reputations and influence within the industry could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain any “key person” life insurance on any of our employees other than a $25.0 million policy on Mr. Daily, as required by our senior secured credit facility. The payment processing industry is highly competitive and such competition is likely to increase, which may further adversely influence our prices to merchants, and as a result, our profit margins. The market for credit and debit card processing services is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. The level of competition has increased in recent years as other providers of processing services have established a sizable market share in the small merchant processing sector. Some of our competitors are financial institutions, subsidiaries of financial institutions or well-established payment processing companies that have substantially greater capital, technological, management and marketing resources than we have. There are also a large number of small providers of processing services that provide various ranges of services to small and medium sized merchants. This competition may effectively limit the prices we can charge and requires us to control costs aggressively in order to maintain acceptable profit margins. Further, if the use of cards other than Visa or MasterCard, such as American Express, grows, or if there is increased use of certain debit cards, our average profit per transaction could be reduced. In addition, our competitors continue to consolidate as large banks merge and combine their networks. This consolidation may also require that we increase the consideration we pay for future acquisitions and could adversely affect the number of attractive acquisition opportunities presented to us. Our future competitors may develop or offer services that have price or other advantages over the services we provide. If they do so and we are unable to respond satisfactorily, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Increased attrition due to an increase in closed merchant accounts and a decrease in merchant charge volume that we cannot anticipate or offset with new accounts may reduce our revenues. We experience attrition in merchant accounts and merchant charge volume in the ordinary course of business resulting from several factors, including but not limited to, business closures, transfers of merchants’ accounts to our competitors and account “closures” that we initiate due to heightened credit risks relating to, or contract breaches by, a merchant. We target small merchants that generally have a higher rate of business failure than larger businesses. During 2010, we experienced volume attrition ranging from 1.0% to 2.0% per month on our various merchant portfolios. Substantially all of our processing contracts with merchants may be terminated by either party on relatively short notice, allowing merchants to move their processing accounts to other providers with minimal financial liability and cost. In addition, we believe that challenging economic conditions have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect merchant charge volume, thereby increasing attrition. We cannot accurately predict the level of attrition in the future, particularly in connection with our acquisitions of portfolios of merchant accounts. Increased attrition in merchant accounts and merchant charge volume may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our merchants experience adverse business conditions, they may generate fewer transactions for us to process or become insolvent, increasing our exposure to chargeback liabilities. We believe that challenging economic conditions have caused some of the merchants we serve to experience difficulty in supporting their current operations and implementing their business plans. If these merchants make fewer sales of their products and services, we will have fewer transactions to process, resulting in lower revenues. In addition, in the current difficult economic environment, the merchants we serve could be subject to a higher rate of business failure which could adversely affect us financially. We bear credit risk for chargebacks related to billing disputes between credit or debit card holders and bankrupt merchants. If a merchant seeks relief under bankruptcy laws or is otherwise unable or unwilling to pay, we may be liable for the full transaction amount of a chargeback. The ability to adopt technology to changing industry and customer needs or trends may affect our competitiveness or demand for our products, which may adversely affect our operating results. Changes in technology may limit the competitiveness of and demand for our services. We operate in industries that are subject to technological advancements, developing industry standards and changing customer needs and preferences. In addition, our customers continue to adopt new technology for business and personal uses. We must anticipate and respond to these industry and customer changes in order to remain competitive within our markets. For example, the ability to adopt technological advancements surrounding point-of-sale technology available to merchants could have an impact on our business. Our inability to respond to new industry standards, trends and technological advancements could negatively impact our operating results. There may be a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the credit card industry in general which could adversely affect our operating results. If consumers do not continue to use credit cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards and debit cards, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We believe future growth in the use of credit cards will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use credit cards. Moreover, if there is an adverse development in the credit card industry in general, such as new legislation or regulation that makes it more difficult for our clients to do business, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Adverse conditions in industries in which we obtain a substantial amount of our bankcard processing volume, such as the automobile and restaurant industries, could negatively affect our operating results. We obtain a substantial amount of our bankcard processing volume from merchants in certain industries. For example, merchants in the automobile and restaurant industries represented 14% and 12% of our bankcard processing volume, respectively, in 2010. As a result, any adverse economic or other conditions in the automobile and restaurant industries, or other industries in which we obtain a substantial amount of our bankcard processing volume, could negatively affect our revenue and materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results are subject to seasonality, and, if our revenues are below our seasonal norms during our historically stronger quarters, our financial results could be adversely affected. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues as a result of consumer spending patterns. Historically, revenues have been weaker during the first quarter of the calendar year and stronger during the second, third and fourth quarters. If, for any reason, our revenues are below seasonal norms during the second, third or fourth quarter, our financial results could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Our systems may fail due to factors beyond our control, which could interrupt our business, cause us to lose business and increase our costs. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our computer network systems, software and data centers. Our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur, and we do not presently have fully redundant systems to help ensure uninterrupted operations. Defects in our systems, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions or other difficulties could result in: • additional development costs; • diversion of technical and other resources; • loss of merchants; • loss of merchant and cardholder data; • negative publicity; • harm to our business or reputation; or • exposure to fraud losses or other liability. Material breaches in the security of our systems may have a significant effect on our business. The uninterrupted operation of our information systems and the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems are critical to the successful operations of our business. We have security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the system will not be inoperable. We also have what we deem sufficient security around the system to prevent unauthorized access to the system. However, our visibility in the United States’ payment industry may attract hackers to conduct attacks on our systems that could compromise the security of our data. An information breach in the system and loss of confidential information such as credit or debit card numbers and related information could have a longer and more significant impact on our business operations than a hardware failure. The loss of confidential information could result in losing our customers’ confidence and thus the loss of their business, as well as the imposition of fines and damages. New and potential governmental regulations designed to protect or limit access to consumer information could adversely affect our ability to provide the services we provide our merchants. Due to the increasing public concern over consumer privacy rights, governmental bodies in the United States and abroad have adopted, and are considering adopting, additional laws and regulations restricting the purchase, sale and sharing of personal information about customers. For example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires non-affiliated third-party service providers to financial institutions to take certain steps to ensure the privacy and security of consumer financial information. We believe our present activities fall under exceptions to the consumer notice and opt-out requirements contained in this law for third-party service providers to financial institutions. We believe that current legislation permits us to access and use this information as we do now. However, the laws governing privacy generally remain unsettled. Even in areas where there has been some legislative action, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other consumer statutes, it is difficult to determine whether and how existing and proposed privacy laws or changes to existing privacy laws will apply to our business. Limitations on our ability to access and use customer information could adversely affect our ability to provide the services we offer to our merchants or impair the value of these services. Several states have proposed legislation that would limit the use of personal information gathered using the Internet. Some proposals would require proprietary online service providers and website owners to establish privacy policies. Congress has also considered privacy legislation that could further regulate the use of consumer information obtained over the Internet or in other ways. Our compliance with these privacy laws and related regulations could materially affect our operations. Changes to existing laws or the passage of new laws could: • create uncertainty in the marketplace that could reduce demand for our services; • limit our ability to collect and to use merchant and cardholder data; or • increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased operating costs; any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents If we are required to pay federal, state or local taxes on transaction processing, it could negatively impact our profitability. Transaction processing companies may become subject to federal, state or local taxation of certain portions of their fees charged to merchants for their services. Application of these taxes is an emerging issue in our industry and taxing jurisdictions have not yet adopted uniform positions on this topic. If we are required to pay such taxes and are unable to pass this tax expense through to our merchant clients, or produce increased cash flow to offset the taxes, these taxes would negatively impact our profitability. The markets for the services that we offer may fail to expand or may contract, which could negatively impact our growth and profitability. Our growth and continued profitability depend on the acceptance of the services that we offer. If demand for our services decreases, our profitability would be negatively impacted. Changes in technology may enable merchants and retail companies to directly process transactions in a cost-efficient manner without the use of our services. Additionally, uncertainty in the economy or a reduction in consumer spending may result in a decrease in the demand for our services. Further, if our customers make fewer sales of their products and services, we will have fewer transactions to process, resulting in lower revenue. Any decrease in the demand for our services for the reasons discussed above or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our growth and revenue. We are the subject of various legal proceedings which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We are involved in various litigation matters. The Company may, from time to time, also be involved in or be subject of governmental or regulatory agency inquiries or investigations. If the Company is unsuccessful in its defense in the litigation matters, or any other legal proceeding, it may be forced to pay damages or fines and/or change its business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. For more information about the Company’s legal proceedings, see “Legal Proceedings.” Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our operating results. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent over 70% of our total assets at December 31, 2010. These assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. We may engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. If the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could materially adversely affect our operating results. Risks Relating to Acquisitions We have previously acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, other providers of payment processing services and portfolios of merchant processing accounts. These acquisitions entail risks in addition to those incidental to the normal conduct of our business. Revenues and profits generated by acquired businesses or account portfolios may be less than anticipated, resulting in losses or a decline in profits, as well as potential impairment charges. In evaluating and determining the purchase price for a prospective acquisition, we estimate the future revenues and profits from that acquisition based on the historical revenue of the acquired provider of payment processing services or portfolio of merchant accounts. Following an acquisition, it is customary to experience some attrition in the number of merchants serviced by an acquired provider of payment processing services or included in an acquired portfolio of merchant accounts. Should the rate of post-acquisition merchant attrition exceed the rate we have forecasted, the revenues and profits generated by the acquired providers of payment processing services or portfolio of accounts may be less than we estimated, which could result in losses or a decline in profits, as well as potential impairment charges. We may fail to uncover all liabilities of acquisition targets through the due diligence process prior to an acquisition, exposing us to potentially significant, unanticipated costs. Prior to the consummation of any acquisition, we perform a due diligence review of the provider of payment processing services or portfolio of merchant accounts that we propose to acquire. Our due diligence review, however, may not adequately uncover all of the contingent or undisclosed liabilities we may incur as a consequence of the proposed acquisition. For example, in the past we were obligated to fund certain credits and chargebacks after discovering that a merchant account from an acquired merchant 23 Table of Contents processing portfolio was in substantial violation of the Visa and MasterCard card association rules. In the future we may make acquisitions that may obligate us to make similar payments resulting in potentially significant, unanticipated costs. We may encounter delays and operational difficulties in completing the necessary transfer of data processing functions and connecting systems links required by an acquisition, resulting in increased costs for, and a delay in the realization of revenues from, that acquisition. The acquisition of a provider of payment processing services, as well as a portfolio of merchant processing accounts, requires the transfer of various data processing functions and connecting links to our systems and those of our third-party service providers. If the transfer of these functions and links does not occur rapidly and smoothly, payment processing delays and errors may occur, resulting in a loss of revenues, increased merchant attrition and increased expenditures to correct the transitional problems, which could preclude our attainment of, or reduce, our anticipated revenue and profits. Special non-recurring and integration costs associated with acquisitions could adversely affect our operating results in the periods following these acquisitions. In connection with some acquisitions, we may incur non-recurring severance expenses, restructuring charges and change of control payments. These expenses, charges and payments, as well as the initial costs of integrating the personnel and facilities of an acquired business with those of our existing operations, may adversely affect our operating results during the initial financial periods following an acquisition. In addition, the integration of newly acquired companies may lead to diversion of management attention from other ongoing business concerns. Our facilities, personnel and financial and management systems may not be adequate to effectively manage the future expansion we believe necessary to increase our revenues and remain competitive. We anticipate that future expansion will be necessary in order to increase our revenues. In order to effectively manage our expansion, we may need to attract and hire additional sales, administrative, operations and management personnel. We cannot be sure that our facilities, personnel, financial and management systems and controls will be adequate to support the expansion of our operations, and provide adequate levels of service to our merchants and ISGs. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business could be harmed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 