Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. We cannot be certain that we will successfully address these risks. If we are unable to address these risks, our business may not grow, our stock price may suffer and we may be unable to stay in business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. Our stock price could be volatile and our trading volume may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock has been and may in the future continue to be extremely volatile, with the sale price fluctuating from a low of $0.18 to a high of $6.00 since June 18, 2007, the first day our stock was traded on the NYSE MKT (formerly NYSE Amex). Many factors could have a significant impact on the future price of our common stock, including: · the various risks and uncertainties discussed below; · general domestic and international economic conditions and other external factors; · general market conditions; and · the degree of trading liquidity in our common stock. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies which may be unrelated to the operating performance of those particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our share price, notwithstanding our operating results. For the three-month period ended June 30, 2013, the daily trading volume for shares of our common stock ranged from 23,200 to 3,104,400 shares traded per day, and the average daily trading volume during such three-month period was 407,258 shares traded per day. Accordingly, our investors who wish to dispose of their shares of common stock on any given trading day may not be able to do so or may be able to dispose of only a portion of their shares of common stock. We have incurred losses and anticipate incurring continuing losses. For the year ended June 30, 2013, we had revenues of $7,723,699. During this period, we had a net loss of $11,878,915 after deducting the net loss attributable to the noncontrolling interest. For the year ended June 30, 2012, we had revenues of $4,805,568. During this period, we had a net loss of $13,710,226. There can be no assurance that we will have income from operations or net income in the future. As of June 30, 2013 we had an accumulated deficit of $80,932,824. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses until we can produce and sell a sufficient number of our systems to be profitable. However, we cannot predict when we will operate profitably, if ever. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future. We need additional financing. We have incurred losses since inception and expect to continue to incur losses until we are able to significantly grow our revenues. Accordingly we need additional financing to remain in operation and to maintain and expand our business, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. In the event that we issue any additional equity securities, investors’ interests in the Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. Further, any such issuance may result in a change in control. If we are unable to obtain the necessary funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to: · remain in operation; · execute our growth plan; · take advantage of future opportunities; or · respond to customers and competition. 11 We may issue debt and/or senior equity securities in the future which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities, senior equity securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. 12 Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to successfully compete. We compete in the market for renewable energy products and services which is intensely competitive. Evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and product obsolescence also impact the market. Our competitors include many domestic and foreign companies, most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. Our current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced technologies, products or services with features that render our technologies, products or services obsolete or less marketable. Our success will be dependent upon our ability to develop products that are superior to existing products and products introduced in the future, and which are cost effective. In addition, we may be required to continually enhance any products that are developed as well as introduce new products that keep pace with technological change and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of the marketplace. Even if our current technologies prove to be commercially feasible, there is extensive research and development being conducted on alternative energy sources that may render our technologies and protocols obsolete or otherwise non-competitive. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with the technological demands of the marketplace or successfully develop products that will succeed in the marketplace. As a small company, we will be at a competitive disadvantage to most of our competitors, which include larger, established companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than us. There can be no assurance that we will have the capital resources available to undertake the research which may be necessary to upgrade our equipment or develop new devices to meet the efficiencies of changing technologies. Our inability to adapt to technological change could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will be dependent on the successful commercialization of our new products, including our third generation ZBB EnerStore zinc bromide flow battery and ZBB EnerSection power and energy control center. We anticipate that a substantial majority of our revenue in fiscal year 2014 will come from new products, including our third generation ZBB EnerStore zinc bromide flow battery and ZBB EnerSection power and energy control center. If these new products do not meet with market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our new products, including, among others: · the price of our products relative to other products either currently available or subsequently introduced; · the perception by potential customers and strategic partners of the effectiveness of our products for their intended purposes; · our ability to fund our manufacturing, sales and marketing efforts; and · the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. Our products are and will be sold in new and rapidly evolving markets. As such, we cannot accurately predict the extent to which demand for these products will increase, if at all. We do not know whether our targeted customers will accept our technology or will purchase our products in sufficient quantities to allow our business to grow. To succeed, demand for our products must increase significantly in existing markets, and there must be strong demand for products that we introduce in the future. The commercial success of our new products is also dependent on the design and development of an efficient and cost-effective means to integrate such products into existing electrical systems. To achieve profitability, we will need to lower our costs and increase our margins, which we may not be able to do. To achieve profitability we will need to lower our costs and increase our margins. A major focus for us for fiscal 2014 is to improve our global supply chain and reduce our costs. These efforts may fail due to unforeseen factors. Our failure to lower our costs could make our products less competitive and harm our ability to grow our revenues. Our inability to lower our costs and increase our margins could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. If our products do not perform as planned, we could experience increased costs, lower margins and harm to our reputation. We anticipate that a substantial majority of our revenue in fiscal year 2014 will come from new products, including our third generation ZBB EnerStore zinc bromide flow battery and ZBB EnerSection power and energy control center. The failure of these or other products to perform as planned could result in increased costs, lower margins and harm to our reputation which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. To succeed, we will need to rapidly grow and we may not be successful in managing this rapid growth. In order to successfully grow our revenues and become profitable, we will need to grow rapidly but if we fail to effectively manage this growth; our business could be adversely affected. Rapid growth will place significant demands on our management, operational and financial infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may fail to timely deliver products to our customers in sufficient volume or the quality of our products could suffer, which could negatively affect our operating results. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to hire additional personnel, and we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. As we move forward in commercializing our new products, we will also need to effectively manage our manufacturing and marketing needs, which represent new areas of oversight for us. These additional employees, systems enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and management resources. Failure to successfully implement these improvements could hurt our ability to manage our growth and our financial position. 13 Our relationships with our strategic partners may not be successful and we may not be successful in establishing additional partnerships, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products and services. An important element of our business strategy is to enter into strategic partnerships with partners who can assist us in achieving our business goals. We are currently a party to several strategic partnership arrangements and any disruption in these collaborations could be detrimental to our business. We expect to seek additional collaborators or strategic partners due the expense, effort and expertise required to develop market and commercialize our products and our limited resources, but we may not be successful in our efforts to establish additional strategic partnerships and arrangements. If we are unable to reach agreements with suitable strategic partners, we may fail to meet our business objectives for the commercialization of our products. The terms of any additional strategic partnerships or other arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. Our inability to successfully implement strategic partnerships and arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shortages or delay of supplies of component parts may adversely affect our operating results until alternate sources can be developed. Our operations are dependent on the ability of suppliers to deliver quality components, devices and subassemblies in time to meet critical manufacturing and distribution schedules. If we experience any constrained supply of any such component parts, such constraints, if persistent, may adversely affect operating results until alternate sourcing can be developed. There may be an increased risk of supplier constraints in periods where we are increasing production volume to meet customer demands. Volatility in the prices of component parts, an inability to secure enough components at reasonable prices to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities and configurations demanded or, conversely, a temporary oversupply of these parts, could adversely affect our future operating results. We have no experience manufacturing our products on a large-scale basis and may be unable to do so at our manufacturing facilities. To date, we have achieved only very limited production of our energy storage systems and have no experience manufacturing our products on a large-scale basis. We believe our current facilities in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin, are sufficient to allow us to significantly increase production of our products. However, there can be no assurance that our current facilities, even if operating at full capacity, will be adequate to enable us to produce the energy storage systems in sufficient quantities to meet hoped for future orders. Our inability to manufacture a sufficient number of units on a timely basis would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if we are able to meet production requirements, we may not be able to achieve margins that enable us to become profitable. Our China joint venture could be adversely affected by the laws and regulations of the Chinese government, our lack of decision-making authority and disputes between us and the Joint Venture. The China market has a large inherent need for advanced energy storage and power electronics and is likely to become the world’s largest market for energy storage. To take advantage of this opportunity, in November 2011, we established a joint venture to develop, produce, sell, distribute and service advanced storage batteries and power electronics in China (the “Joint Venture”). However, achieving the anticipated benefits of the Joint Venture is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The Joint Venture has (1) an exclusive royalty-free license to manufacture and distribute our third generation ZBB EnerStore zinc bromide flow battery and ZBB EnerSection power and energy control center (up to 250KW) (the “Products”) in mainland China in the power supply management industry and (2) a non-exclusive royalty-free license to manufacture and distribute the Products in Hong Kong and Taiwan in the power supply management industry. Although the Joint Venture partners are contractually restricted from using our intellectual property outside of the Joint Venture, there is always a general risk associated with sharing intellectual property with third parties and the possibility that such information may be used and shared without our consent. Moreover, China laws that protect intellectual property rights are not as developed and favorable to the owner of such rights as are U.S. laws. If any of our intellectual property rights are used or shared without our approval in China, we may have difficulty in prosecuting our claim in an expeditious and effective manner. Difficulties or delays in enforcing our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. 14 As a general matter, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of China laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing the anticipated business of the Joint Venture and the protection of intellectual property rights. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The unpredictability of the interpretation and application of existing and new China laws and regulations will pose additional challenges for us as we seek to develop and grow the Joint Venture’s business in China. Our failure to understand these laws or an unforeseen change in a law or the application thereof could have an adverse effect on the Joint Venture. The success of the Joint Venture will depend in part on continued support of “new energy” initiatives by the government of China that includes requirements for products like ours. Should the government change its policies in an unfavorable manner the anticipated demand for the Joint Venture’s products in China may fail to materialize. The Joint Venture may have economic, tax or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Disputes between us and the Joint Venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that could be costly and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from focusing their time and effort on our day to day business. In addition, we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of the Joint Venture. The Joint Venture is a new business in China. As with any new business, there will be many challenges facing the Joint Venture, including establishing successful manufacturing capabilities, developing a market for the Joint Venture’s products, obtaining requisite governmental approvals and permits, implementation of an untested business plan, and securing adequate funding for working capital and growth. Failure to overcome any of these or any other challenges facing the Joint Venture could result in its failure. Business practices in Asia may entail greater risk and dependence upon the personal relationships of senior management than is common in North America, and therefore some of our agreements with other parties in China and South Korea could be difficult or impossible to enforce. We are increasing our business activities in Asia. The business culture in parts of Asia is, in some respects, different from the business cultures in Western countries. Personal relationships among business principals of companies and business entities in Asia are very significant in their business cultures. In some cases, because so much reliance is based upon personal relationships, written contracts among businesses in Asia may be less detailed and specific than is commonly accepted for similar written agreements in Western countries. In some cases, material terms of an understanding are not contained in the written agreement but exist only as oral agreements. In other cases, the terms of transactions which may involve material amounts of money are not documented at all. In addition, in contrast to the Western business environment where a written agreement specifically defines the terms, rights and obligations of the parties in a legally-binding and enforceable manner, the parties to a written agreement in Asia may view that agreement more as a starting point for an ongoing business relationship which will evolve and undergo ongoing modification over time. As a result, any contractual arrangements we enter into with a counterparty in Asia may be more difficult to review, understand and/or enforce. Our success depends on our ability to retain our managerial personnel and to attract additional personnel. Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain managerial personnel. Competition for desirable personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary staff. The loss of members of managerial staff could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and on successful development of products for our target markets. The failure to maintain management and to attract additional key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We market and sell, and plan to market and sell, our products in numerous international markets. If we are unable to manage our international operations effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We market and sell, and plan to market and sell, our products in a number of foreign countries, including China, Australia, South Africa, Canada, European Union countries, the United Kingdom, Italy, Chile, Brazil, India, Mexico as well as Puerto Rico, various Caribbean island nations and various southeast Asia countries, and we are therefore subject to risks associated with having international operations. Risks inherent in international operations include, but are not limited to, the following: 15 · changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate; · unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to renewable energy, environmental protection, permitting, export duties and quotas; · trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries; · fluctuations in exchange rates may affect demand for our products and may adversely affect our profitability; · difficulty of, and costs relating to compliance with, the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer and sell our products; · inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and · difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be able to develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial results may vary significantly from period-to-period due to long and unpredictable sales cycles for some of our products and the cyclical nature of certain end-markets into which we sell our products, which may in turn lead to volatility in our stock price. The amount and timing of our revenue recognition from sales to our customers is difficult to predict. We are often required to invest significant time to educate our customers about the use and benefits of our products, including their technical and performance characteristics. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process that has in the past resulted in a lengthy sales cycle for us, typically many months. If our revenue falls below our expectations or is delayed in any given period, we may not be able to reduce proportionately our operating expenses for that period. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Businesses and consumers might not adopt alternative energy solutions as a means for obtaining their electricity and power needs, and therefore our revenues may not increase, and we may be unable to achieve and then sustain profitability. On-site distributed power generation solutions, such as fuel cell, photovoltaic and wind turbine systems, which utilize our energy storage systems, provide an alternative means for obtaining electricity and are relatively new methods of obtaining electrical power that businesses may not adopt at levels sufficient to grow this part of our business. Traditional electricity distribution is based on the regulated industry model whereby businesses and consumers obtain their electricity from a government regulated utility. For alternative methods of distributed power to succeed, businesses and consumers must adopt new purchasing practices and must be willing to rely upon less traditional means of purchasing electricity. We cannot assure you that businesses and consumers will choose to utilize on-site distributed power at levels sufficient to sustain our business in this area. The development of a mass market for our products may be impacted by many factors which are out of our control, including: · market acceptance of fuel cell, photovoltaic and wind turbine systems that incorporate our products; · the cost competitiveness of these systems; · regulatory requirements; and · the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products. If a mass market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The success of our business depends on our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property rights, which could be expensive. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies, systems designs and manufacturing processes. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance we have been or will be completely successful in doing so. We rely on patents, trademarks, and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our intellectual property. However, most of our intellectual property is not covered by any patents or patent applications. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any of our pending patent applications will issue or, in the case of patents issued or to be issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficient to protect our technology or processes. Even if all of our patent applications are issued, our patents may be challenged or invalidated. Patent applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the United States, and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce. 16 While we take steps to protect our proprietary rights to the extent possible, there can be no assurance that third parties will not know, discover or develop independently equivalent proprietary information or techniques, that they will not gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets. Misappropriation of our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. We may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, and unfavorable outcomes could harm our business. Our future operations may be subject to claims, and potential litigation, arising from our alleged infringement of patents, trade secrets or copyrights owned by other third parties. We intend to fully comply with the law in avoiding such infringements. However, we may become subject to claims of infringement, including such claims or litigation initiated by existing, better-funded competitors. We could also become involved in disputes regarding the ownership of intellectual property rights that relate to our technologies. These disputes could arise out of collaboration relationships, strategic partnerships or other relationships. Any such litigation could be expensive, take significant time, and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Our failure to prevail in any such legal proceedings, or even the mere occurrence of such legal proceedings, could substantially affect our ability to meet our expenses and continue operations. If our shareholders’ equity falls below the minimum requirement or we otherwise fail to satisfy all required continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted from the NYSE MKT, which would cause our common stock to become less liquid. Our shares have been listed on the NYSE MKT (formerly the NYSE Amex) since June 18, 2007. We are required to comply with all reporting and listing requirements on a timely manner and maintain our corporate governance and independent director standards. The NYSE MKT imposes, among other requirements, listing maintenance standards including minimum shareholders’ equity, minimum stock price and market capitalization requirements. If we are unable to remain in compliance with applicable listing requirements and our common stock is delisted by NYSE MKT, it could lead to a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in our common stock and greater difficulty in obtaining financing. There can be no assurance that our common stock will remain eligible for trading on the NYSE MKT. We may engage in acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and reduce our financial resources. In the future, we may enter into transactions to acquire other businesses, products or technologies. If we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make such acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Any acquisitions we make may not strengthen our competitive position, and these transactions may be viewed negatively by customers or investors. We may decide to incur debt in connection with an acquisition or issue our common stock or other securities to the stockholders of the acquired company, which would reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. We could incur losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of the acquired business that are not covered by the indemnification we may obtain from the seller. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired personnel, technologies and operations into our existing business in an effective, timely and non-disruptive manner. Acquisitions may also divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and reduce our cash available for operations and other uses. We cannot predict the number, timing or size of future acquisitions or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating results. We have never paid cash dividends and do not intend to do so. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently plan to retain any earnings to finance the growth of our business rather than to pay cash dividends. Payments of any cash dividends in the future will depend on our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 17 