Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. We cannot be certain that we will successfully address these risks. If we are unable to address these risks, our business may not grow, our stock price may suffer and we may be unable to stay in business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. Our stock price could be volatile and our trading volume may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock has been and may in the future continue to be extremely volatile, with the sale price fluctuating from a low of $0.20 to a high of $6.00 since June 18, 2007, the first day our stock was traded on the NYSE Amex (formerly American Stock Exchange). Many factors could have a significant impact on the future price of our common stock, including: ● the various risks and uncertainties discussed below; ● general domestic and international economic conditions and other external factors; ● general market conditions; and ● the degree of trading liquidity in our common stock. -9- In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies which may be unrelated to the operating performance of those particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our share price, notwithstanding our operating results. For the three-month period ended June 30, 2011, the daily trading volume for shares of our common stock ranged from 16,300 to 601,200 shares traded per day, and the average daily trading volume during such three-month period was 142,505 shares traded per day. Accordingly, our investors who wish to dispose of their shares of common stock on any given trading day may not be able to do so or may be able to dispose of only a portion of their shares of common stock. We have incurred losses and anticipate incurring continuing losses. For the year ended June 30, 2011, we had revenues of $1,802,610. During this period, we had a net loss of $8,449,006. For the year ended June 30, 2010, we had revenues of $1,545,980. During this period, we had a net loss of $9,606,826. There can be no assurance that we will have income from operations or net income in the future. As of June 30, 2011 we had an accumulated deficit of $55.3 million. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses until we can produce and sell a sufficient number of our systems to be profitable. However, we cannot predict when we will operate profitably, if ever. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future. We will need additional financing. We will need additional financing to maintain and expand our business, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. In the event that we issue any additional equity securities, investors’ interests in the company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. If we issue any such additional equity securities, such issuances also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other stockholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change in control. When we need additional financing, we cannot provide assurance that it will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we need funds and cannot raise them on acceptable terms, we may not be able to: ● execute our growth plan; ● take advantage of future opportunities, including synergistic acquisitions; ● respond to customers and competition; or ● remain in operation. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or that represent the right to receive common stock or the exercise of such securities could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our shareholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interests in us. We may issue debt and/or senior equity securities in the future, including the shares of Series A preferred stock issuable under our Amended and Restated Securities Purchase Agreement with Socius CG II, Ltd which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities, senior equity securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to successfully compete. We compete in the market for renewable energy products and services which is intensely competitive. Evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and product obsolescence also impact the market. Our competitors include many domestic and foreign companies, most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. Our current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced technologies, products or services with features that render our technologies, products or services obsolete or less marketable. Our success will be dependent upon our ability to develop products that are superior to existing products and products introduced in the future, and which are cost effective. In addition, we may be required to continually enhance any products that are developed as well as introduce new products that keep pace with technological change and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of the marketplace. Even if our technology currently proves to be commercially feasible, there is extensive research and development being conducted on alternative energy sources that may render our technologies and protocols obsolete or otherwise non-competitive. -10- Technological developments in any of a large number of competing processes and technologies could make our technology obsolete and we have little ability to manage that risk. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with the technological demands of the marketplace or successfully develop products that will succeed in the marketplace. As a small company, we will be at a competitive disadvantage to most of our competitors, which include larger, established companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than us. There can be no assurance that we will have the capital resources available to undertake the research which may be necessary to upgrade our equipment or develop new devices to meet the efficiencies of changing technologies. Our inability to adapt to technological change could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Successful commercialization of our next generation ZESS Zinc Bromide flow battery, version three (V3) and receipt of UL 1741 certification for the POWR PECC are critical component of our growth plans. The primary challenge for the intelligent storage industry is trying to meet the lifecycle cost and reliability targets needed for these markets. We are in the final stages of developing of our next generation ZESS Zinc Bromide flow battery, version three (V3), which has substantial changes in design, function and a significant reduction in cost of ownership. We anticipate that the successful commercial launch of the V3 battery module will significantly increase our ability to generate orders and increase revenues. However, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the successful commercial launch of the V3 in the near term, or at all and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any installation that is interconnected with a utility network require the interconnection to have passed UL 1741 certification. Accordingly, one of our top priorities is achieving this certification for the POWR PECC. Achieving UL 1741 certification of the POWR PECC grid tie inverter is expected to be a significant competitive advantage in getting new orders and building backlog. However, there can be no assurance that we will receive this certification in the near term, or at all and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products do not perform as promised, we could experience increased costs, lower margins and harm to our reputation. The failure of our products to perform as promised could result in increased costs, lower margins and harm to our reputation. This could result in contract terminations and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our relationships with our strategic partners may not be successful and we may not be successful in establishing additional partnerships, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products and services. An important element of our business strategy is to enter into strategic partnerships with partners who can assist us in achieving our business goals. If we are unable to reach agreements with suitable strategic partners, we may fail to meet our business objectives for the commercialization of our products. We may face significant competition in seeking appropriate alliance partners. Moreover, these development agreements and strategic alliances are complex to negotiate and time consuming to document. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish additional strategic partnerships or other alternative arrangements. The terms of any additional strategic partnerships or other arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. In addition, these partnerships may not be successful, and we may be unable to sell and market our products to these companies and their affiliates and customers in the future, or growth opportunities may not materialize, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shortages or delay of supplies of component parts may adversely affect our operating results until alternate sources can be developed. Our operations are dependent on the ability of suppliers to deliver quality components, devices and subassemblies in time to meet critical manufacturing and distribution schedules. If we experience any constrained supply of any such component parts, such constraints, if persistent, may adversely affect operating results until alternate sourcing can be developed. There may be an increased risk of supplier constraints in periods where we are increasing production volume to meet customer demands. Volatility in the prices of these component parts, an inability to secure enough components at reasonable prices to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities and configurations demanded or, conversely, a temporary oversupply of these parts, could adversely affect our future operating results. We have no experience manufacturing our products on a large-scale basis and may be unable to do so at our manufacturing facilities. To date, we have achieved only very limited production of our energy storage systems and have no experience manufacturing our products on a large-scale basis. In February 2006 we acquired a building we were previously leasing in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin which provides up to 72,000 square feet for use as a manufacturing facility. This facility is currently producing at less than 10% of its expected capacity. However, we do not know whether our current manufacturing facility, even if operating at full capacity, will be adequate to enable us to produce the energy storage systems in sufficient quantities to meet hoped for future orders. If there is demand for our products, our inability to manufacture a sufficient number of units on a timely basis would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. -11- We may experience difficulties in integrating the business of Tier Electronics LLC and could fail to realize the potential benefits of the acquisition. In January 2011 we acquired substantially all of the net assets of Tier Electronics LLC (“Seller”) used in connection with Seller’s business of developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling power electronics products for and to original equipment manufacturers in various industries. This acquisition significantly expands our product portfolio, customer base and served market and is expected to add significantly to revenue growth and be accretive to operating cash flows. However, these expectations are based on preliminary projections which may materially change. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties including: ● our ability to integrate Tier with our operations and take advantage of expected growth opportunities; ● general market and economic conditions; ● general competitive factors in the marketplace; and ● potentially higher than expected costs required to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our inability to realize the potential benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delay in successfully integrating Seller’s business could have an adverse effect upon our revenues, level of expenses and operating results. Our China joint venture could be adversely affected by the laws and regulations of the Chinese government, our lack of decision-making authority and disputes between us and the Joint Venture. The China market has a large inherent need for advanced energy storage and power electronics and is likely to become the largest market for energy storage. To take advantage of this opportunity, in August 2011, we entered into agreements providing for establishment of a joint venture to develop, produce, sell, distribute and service advanced storage batteries and power electronics in China (the “Joint Venture”). The Joint Venture will be established upon receipt of certain governmental approvals from China which are anticipated to be received in November 2011. However, there can be no assurance that such government approvals will be obtained as anticipated or at all and if they are not, we may be forced to abandon the Joint Venture. Even if we are able to establish it, achieving the anticipated benefits of the Joint Venture is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The Joint Venture will have (1) an exclusive royalty-free license to manufacture and distribute our ZESS Zinc Bromide flow battery, version three (V3) and POWR PECC (the “Products”) in mainland China in the power supply management industry and (2) a non-exclusive royalty-free license to manufacture and distribute the Products in Hong Kong and Taiwan in the power supply management industry. Although the Joint Venture partners are contractually restricted from using our intellectual property outside of the Joint Venture, there is always a general risk associated with sharing intellectual property with third parties and the possibility that such information may be used and shared without our consent. Moreover, Chinese laws that protect intellectual property rights are not as developed and favorable to the owner of such rights as they are in the United States. If any of our intellectual property rights are used or shared without our approval in China, we may have difficulty in prosecuting our claim in an expeditious and effective manner. Delays in enforcing our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. As a general matter, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing the anticipated business of the Joint Venture and the protection of intellectual property rights. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The unpredictability of the interpretation and application of existing and new Chinese laws and regulations will pose additional challenges for us as we seek to develop and grow the Joint Venture’s business in China. Our failure to understand Chinese laws or an unforeseen change in a law or the application thereof could have an adverse effect on the Joint Venture. The success of the Joint Venture will depend in part on continued support of “new energy” initiatives by the Chinese government that includes requirements for products like ours. Should the government change its policies in an unfavorable manner the anticipated demand for the Joint Venture’s products in China may fail to materialize. Our investment in the Joint Venture may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when a third party is not involved, including the possibility that the Joint Venture might become bankrupt or fail to fund its share of required capital contributions, which may leave us liable for its share of the Joint Venture’s liabilities. The Joint Venture may have economic, tax or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Disputes between us and the Joint Venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our day to day business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with the Joint Venture may subject assets owned by the Joint Venture to additional risk. In addition, we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of the Joint Venture. -12- The Joint Venture is a new business in China. As with any new business, there will be many challenges facing the Joint Venture, including developing a market for the Joint Venture’s products, obtaining requisite governmental approvals and permits, implementation of an untested business plan, and securing adequate funding for working capital and growth. Failure to overcome any of these or any other challenges facing the Joint Venture could result in its failure. Business practices in Asia may entail greater risk and dependence upon the personal relationships of senior management than is common in North America, and therefore some of our agreements with other parties in China and South Korea could be difficult or impossible to enforce. We are increasing our business activities in Asia. The business culture in parts of Asia is, in some respects, different from the business cultures in Western countries. Personal relationships among business principals of companies and business entities in Asia are very significant in their business cultures. In some cases, because so much reliance is based upon personal relationships, written contracts among businesses in Asia may be less detailed and specific than is commonly accepted for similar written agreements in Western countries. In some cases, material terms of an understanding are not contained in the written agreement but exist only as oral agreements. In other cases, the terms of transactions which may involve material amounts of money are not documented at all. In addition, in contrast to the Western business environment where a written agreement specifically defines the terms, rights and obligations of the parties in a legally-binding and enforceable manner, the parties to a written agreement in Asia may view that agreement more as a starting point for an ongoing business relationship which will evolve and undergo ongoing modification over time. As a result, any contractual arrangements we enter into with a counterparty in Asia may be more difficult to review, understand and/or enforce. Our success depends on our ability to retain our managerial personnel and to attract additional personnel. Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain managerial personnel. Competition for desirable personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary staff. We currently have 53 full-time employees. The loss of members of managerial staff could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and on successful development of products for our target markets. The failure to maintain management and to attract additional key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We market and sell, and plan to market and sell, our products in numerous international markets. If we are unable to manage our international operations effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We market and sell, and plan to market and sell, our products in a number of foreign countries, including China, Australia, South Africa, Canada, European Union countries, the United Kingdom, Italy, Chile, Brazil, India, Mexico as well as Puerto Rico, various Caribbean island nations and various southeast Asia countries, and we are therefore subject to risks associated with having international operations. Risks inherent in international operations include, but are not limited to, the following: ● changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate; ● unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to renewable energy, environmental protection, permitting, export duties and quotas; ● trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries; ● fluctuations in exchange rates may affect demand for our products and may adversely affect our profitability in US dollars to the extent the price of our products and cost of raw materials and labor are denominated in a foreign currency; ● difficulty of, and costs relating to compliance with, the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer and sell our products; ● inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and ● difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be able to develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. -13- Our financial results may vary significantly from period-to-period due to long and unpredictable sales cycles for some of our products and the cyclical nature of certain end-markets into which we sell our products, which may in turn lead to volatility in our stock price. The amount and timing of our revenue recognition from sales to our customers is difficult to predict. We are often required to invest significant time to educate our customers about the use and benefits of our products, including their technical and performance characteristics. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process that has in the past resulted in a lengthy sales cycle for us, typically many months. If our revenue falls below our expectations or is delayed in any given period, we may not be able to reduce proportionately our operating expenses for that period. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Businesses and consumers might not adopt alternative energy solutions as a means for obtaining their electricity and power needs, and therefore our revenues may not increase, and we may be unable to achieve and then sustain profitability. On-site distributed power generation solutions, such as fuel cell, photovoltaic and wind turbine systems, which utilize our energy storage systems, provide an alternative means for obtaining electricity and are relatively new methods of obtaining electrical power that businesses may not adopt at levels sufficient to grow this part of our business. Traditional electricity distribution is based on the regulated industry model whereby businesses and consumers obtain their electricity from a government regulated utility. For alternative methods of distributed power to succeed, businesses and consumers must adopt new purchasing practices and must be willing to rely upon less traditional means of purchasing electricity. We cannot assure you that businesses and consumers will choose to utilize on-site distributed power at levels sufficient to sustain our business in this area. The development of a mass market for our products may be impacted by many factors which are out of our control, including: ● market acceptance of fuel cell, photovoltaic and wind turbine systems that incorporate our products; ● the cost competitiveness of these systems; ● regulatory requirements; and ● the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products. If a mass market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred to develop these products. The success of our business depends on our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property rights, which could be expensive. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies, systems designs and manufacturing processes. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance we have been or will be completely successful in doing so. We rely on patents, trademarks, and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our intellectual property. However, most of our intellectual property is not covered by any patents or patent applications. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any of our patent applications will issue or, in the case of patents issued or to be issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficient to protect our technology or processes. Even if all of our patent applications are issued, our patents may be challenged or invalidated. Patent applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the United States, and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce. While we take steps to protect our proprietary rights to the extent possible, there can be no assurance that third parties will not know, discover or develop independently equivalent proprietary information or techniques, that they will not gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets. Misappropriation of our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. We may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, and unfavorable outcomes could harm our business. Our future operations may be subject to claims, and potential litigation, arising from our alleged infringement of patents, trade secrets or copyrights owned by other third parties. We intend to fully comply with the law in avoiding such infringements. However, we may become subject to claims of infringement, including such claims or litigation initiated by existing, better-funded competitors. We could also become involved in disputes regarding the ownership of intellectual property rights that relate to our technologies. These disputes could arise out of collaboration relationships, strategic partnerships or other relationships. Any such litigation could be expensive, take significant time, and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Our failure to prevail in any such legal proceedings, or even the mere occurrence of such legal proceedings, could substantially affect our ability to meet our expenses and continue operations. -14- If our shareholders’ equity continues to remain below the minimum requirement, our common stock may be delisted from the NYSE Amex, which would cause our common stock to become less liquid. Our shares have been listed on the NYSE Amex (formerly the American Stock Exchange) since June 18, 2007. We are required to comply with all reporting and listing requirements on a timely manner and maintain our corporate governance and independent director standards. The NYSE Amex imposes, among other requirements, listing maintenance standards including minimum shareholders’ equity, minimum price and market capitalization requirements. On December 2, 2010, we received notice from the NYSE Amex staff indicating that we were noncompliant with the requirements of Section 1003(a)(i) of the NYSE Amex’s company guide with respect to minimum shareholders’ equity based on our annual report for the period ended June 30, 2010, and our quarterly report for the period ended September 30, 2010. The notice provided that we should submit a plan that would reestablish compliance with the listing requirements. We submitted a compliance plan to the NYSE Amex staff, and on February 4, 2011, the NYSE Amex staff notified us that they had accepted our compliance plan. The NYSE Amex staff granted us an extension until June 12, 2012, to regain compliance with the continued listing standards. We will be able to continue our listing during the plan period pursuant to the extension and will be subject to periodic review by the NYSE Amex staff. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by the end of the applicable extension periods could result in our shares being delisted from the NYSE Amex. If the NYSE Amex delists our common stock from trading for this reason or for failing to meet any other ongoing listing requirements, among other things, it could lead to a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in our common stock and greater difficulty in obtaining financing. There can be no assurance that our common stock will remain eligible for trading on the NYSE Amex. We have never paid cash dividends and do not intend to do so. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently plan to retain any earnings to finance the growth of our business rather than to pay cash dividends. Payments of any cash dividends in the future will depend on our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 