Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business - If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish,” following Item 1 of this Annual Report. We also depend upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, as well as that of our advisors, consultants and other contractors, none of which is patentable. To help protect our proprietary know-how which is not patentable, and for inventions for which patents may be difficult to enforce, we rely and intend to rely in the future on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our interests. License Agreements Talotrexin. Our rights to Talotrexin are governed by the terms of a December 2002 license agreement with Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Ash Stevens, Inc. The agreement provides us with an exclusive worldwide royalty bearing license, including the right to grant sublicenses, to the intellectual property rights and know-how relating to Talotrexin and all of its uses. Patents related to this technology and covered by the license include: (i) a composition of matter patent, (ii) a utility application, and (iii) provisional use patents for multiple indications. The technology licensed to us includes one United States patent issued in 1988 and one pending patent application filed in April 2003. 12 Upon execution of the license agreement, we paid a license fee of $100,000 to our licensors and also reimbursed them for patent-related expenses in an amount of approximately $11,000. In addition, the license agreement requires us to make future payments totaling up to $6 million upon the achievement of certain milestones, including a $5 million payment upon approval by the FDA of a New Drug Application for Talotrexin. To date, we have made one of these milestone payments in the amount of $100,000 following commencement of the Phase I clinical trial. Additionally, we are obligated to pay royalties in the amount of 3.5 percent of “net sales” (as defined in the license agreement) of Talotrexin. We are also required to pay to the licensors 20 percent of fees or non-royalty consideration (e.g., milestone payments, license fees) received by us in connection with any sublicense of Talotrexin granted prior to the start of a Phase II trial, and 15 percent of such fees after initiation of a Phase II clinical trial. The license agreement includes certain other covenants, which require us to, among other things, maintain and prosecute patents related to Talotrexin; use our commercially reasonable efforts to bring the licensed product to market as soon as reasonably practicable; and prepare and provide to the licensors certain reports concerning our development and commercialization efforts. In the event we fail to carry out our responsibilities under the license agreement, the licensors may terminate the license. The license agreement may also be terminated in the event we fail to make a scheduled milestone or royalty payment, we otherwise materially breach the license agreement, or if we become involved in a bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding, provided that we are entitled to notice of such intention to terminate and an opportunity to cure. The license agreement automatically expires, on a country-by-country basis, on the date on which the last of the patent claims covered by the agreement expires, lapses or is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction in such country. The first of the patents covered by the license agreement is set to expire in 2007, although the pending applications, if granted, will not expire until 2023. IPdR. In February 2004, we entered into an exclusive worldwide, royalty-bearing license agreement with Yale University and The Research Foundation of State University of New York, including the right to grant sublicenses, for the rights to the intellectual property relating to IPdR. The licensed intellectual property includes patent rights relating to IPdR that do not expire until 2015, at the earliest. In addition to a $100,000 license fee paid upon execution of the agreement, we issued to our licensors 10-year options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 141,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $1.02 per share. We are also required to make an annual license payment of $25,000 on the anniversary of the agreement. In addition, we are required to make milestone payments in the aggregate amount of $500,000 upon the completion of a Phase IIb clinical trial and upon NDA approval by the FDA. As further consideration for the license, we are required to pay royalties to Yale and SUNY equal to 3 percent of net sales (as defined in the license agreement) from IPdR. The license agreement also includes certain other covenants which obligate us to, among other things, initiate a Phase I trial for IPdR by February 2006 and a Phase II trial within 18 months of successful completion of the Phase I trial; file an NDA for FDA approval by February 2011; maintain and prosecute the patents relating to IPdR; and use our reasonable commercial efforts to implement a mutually-agreed upon plan for developing and commercializing IPdR. In the event we commit a material breach of our obligations under the license agreement, Yale and SUNY have the right to terminate the license agreement following notice to us and an opportunity to cure such breach (if capable of being cured). The license agreement automatically expires, on a country-by-country basis, on the date on which the last of the patent claims covered by the agreement expires, lapses or is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction in such country. The first of the two patents covered by the license agreement is set to expire in 2007 and the second is set to expire in 2015. Zensana™ (ondansetron oral spray). Pursuant to the terms of an October 2004 license agreement with NovaDel Pharma, Inc., we hold a royalty-bearing, exclusive right and license to develop and commercialize within the United States and Canada NovaDel’s lingual spray version of ondansetron. The technology licensed to us under the license agreement currently covers one United States issued patent. In connection with the development of the licensed product, NovaDel has agreed to perform or cause to be performed certain development activities on behalf and at the expense of the Company. In consideration for the license, the license agreement provides that (i) we will make double-digit royalty payments to NovaDel based on a percentage of “net sales” (as defined in the agreement); (ii) we are obligated to make various milestone payments in an aggregate amount of up to $10 million; and (iii) we issued to NovaDel 73,121 shares of our common stock (determined by dividing $500,000 by the average selling price of our common stock during the 10 business days preceding the date of the license agreement) and we purchased 400,000 shares of NovaDel’s common stock at a price of $2.50 per share. Neither party may sell such shares for a 2-year period following the effective date of the license agreement. 13 The license agreement expires on the later of (i) the expiration date of the last to expire patent covered by the license (currently March 2022) or (ii) October 2024, 20 years from the effective date of the license agreement. The license agreement also provides that NovaDel may terminate the agreement upon notice prior to the expiration of its term in the event the Company becomes insolvent or defaults in its payment obligations, and either party may terminate the agreement after giving notice and an opportunity to cure in the event the other party commits a material breach. Employees We currently employ 16 persons, all of whom are based at our South San Francisco office. We believe the relationships with our employees are satisfactory. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is very risky. You may lose the entire amount of your investment. Prior to making an investment decision, you should carefully review this entire prospectus and consider the following risk factors: Risks Related to Our Business We currently have no product revenues and will need to raise additional capital to operate our business. To date, we have generated no product revenues. Until we receive approval for our product candidates from the FDA or other regulatory authorities, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenues. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from cash on hand, licensing fees and grants. We will need additional financing in addition to such funds, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We may, however, choose to raise additional capital before 2007 in order to fund our future development activities, likely by selling shares of our capital stock or other securities. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds in the future on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be forced to curtail our desired development activities. In addition, we could be forced to delay or discontinue product development, reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts and forego attractive business opportunities. Any additional sources of financing will likely involve the sale of our equity securities, which will have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We are not currently profitable and may never become profitable. We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had a net loss of $10 million, and since our inception in December 2002 through December 31, 2005, we have an accumulated deficit of $18.1 million. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. Our current “burn rate” − i.e., the amount of cash we spend to fund our operations − is approximately $1.1 million per month. We expect our burn rate to increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we · continue to undertake pre-clinical development and clinical trials for our current and any new product candidates; · seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; · implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; · seek to acquire additional technologies to develop; and 14 · hire additional personnel. We expect to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We may not be able to generate these revenues or achieve profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our stock. We have a limited operating history upon which to base an investment decision. We are a development-stage company that was founded in December 2002. We only have three product candidates, two of which − IPdR and Zensana™ (ondansetron oral spray) − we acquired in 2004. To date, we have not demonstrated an ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any of our product candidates. The successful commercialization of our product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: · continuing to undertake clinical trials; · participating in regulatory approval processes; · formulating and manufacturing products; and · conducting sales and marketing activities. Our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technologies and undertaking, through third parties, pre-clinical trials and clinical trials of our product candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for you to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates and the advisability of investing in our securities. If we do not obtain the necessary U.S. or worldwide regulatory approvals to commercialize our product candidates, we will not be able to market and sell our product candidates. We will need FDA approval to commercialize our product candidates in the U.S. and approvals from the FDA equivalent regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our product candidates in those jurisdictions. In order to obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates, we must submit to the FDA a New Drug Application, or NDA, demonstrating that the product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as pre-clinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of the FDA’s regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. Historically, only approximately 11 percent of all drug candidates that start clinical trials are eventually approved for sale. After clinical trials are completed, the FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may require us to conduct additional pre-clinical and clinical testing or to perform post-marketing studies. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: · delay commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenues from, our product candidates; · impose costly procedures on us; and · diminish any competitive advantages that we may otherwise enjoy. Even if we comply with all FDA requests, the FDA may ultimately reject one or more of our NDAs. We cannot be sure that we will ever obtain regulatory clearance for any of our product candidates. Failure to obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates will severely undermine our business by reducing our number of salable products and, therefore, corresponding product revenues. 15 In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities before we can commercialize our drugs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize any of our product candidates for sale outside the United States. Some of product candidates are in early stages of clinical trials, which are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design. We cannot predict with any certainty that we will ever receive regulatory approval to sell our product candidates. Talotrexin and IPdR are in early stages of development and require extensive clinical testing. In 2003, the FDA accepted our Investigational New Drug application, or “IND,” for Talotrexin and in March 2004 we initiated a Phase I clinical trial at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Massachusetts General Hospital and Beth-Israel Deaconess Hospital. We have also recently completed an open-label multicenter, multinational Phase I and II study of Talotrexin in the treatment of relapsed or refractory non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and in June 2005, commenced an open-label multicenter Phase I and II study of Talotrexin in the treatment of refractory leukemia. We only commenced an initial Phase I in IPdR in September 2005. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of our product candidates will take at least several years to complete. Further, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including: · unforeseen safety issues; · determination of dosing issues; · lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; · inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and · inability or unwillingness of medical investigators and institutional review boards to follow our clinical protocols. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our IND submissions or the conduct of these trials. Accordingly, we cannot predict with any certainty when or if we will ever be in a position to submit an NDA for any of our product candidates, or whether any such NDA would ever be approved. If the results of our clinical trials do not support our product candidate claims, the completion of development of such product candidates may be significantly delayed or we may be forced to abandon development altogether, which will significantly impair our ability to generate product revenues. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product candidate claims. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. In addition, our clinical trials involve a small patient population. Because of the small sample size, the results of these early clinical trials may not be indicative of future results. 16 If physicians and patients do not accept and use our drugs, our ability to generate revenue from sales of our products will be materially impaired. Even if the FDA approves our product candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of our product will depend upon a number of factors including: · perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs; · pharmacological benefit and cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products; · availability of reimbursement for our products from government or other healthcare payers; · effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any; and · the price at which we sell our products. Because we expect sales of our current product candidates, if approved, to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. Because we are dependent on clinical research institutions and other contractors for clinical testing and for research and development activities, the results of our clinical trials and such research activities are, to a certain extent, beyond our control. We depend upon independent investigators and collaborators, such as universities and medical institutions, to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. For example, our current Phase I trial for Talotrexin is being conducted by Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Massachusetts General Hospital and Beth-Israel Deaconess Hospital. These collaborators are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. These investigators may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. These collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of whom may compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. Our intention to rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture our product candidates exposes us to a number of risks that may delay the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our products or result in higher product costs. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing and do not intend to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own product candidates. We intend to contract with one or more manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. If any of our product candidates receive FDA approval, we will rely on one or more third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers, exposes us to the following risks: · We may be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. · Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs, if any. 17 · Our future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. · Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the DEA, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards, but we will be ultimately responsible for any of their failures. · If any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to the innovation. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, the approval, if any, of our product candidates by the FDA, or the commercialization of our product candidates or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenues. We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. While we intend to have a role in the commercialization of our products, we do not anticipate having the resources in the foreseeable future to globally develop sales and marketing capabilities for all of our proposed products. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative relationships with other companies having sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, the collaborator’s strategic interest in the products under development and such collaborator’s ability to successfully market and sell any such products. We intend to pursue collaborative arrangements regarding the sales and marketing of our products, however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish or maintain such collaborative arrangements, or if able to do so, that they will have effective sales forces. To the extent that we decide not to, or are unable to, enter into collaborative arrangements with respect to the sales and marketing of our proposed products, significant capital expenditures, management resources and time will be required to establish and develop an in-house marketing and sales force with technical expertise. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to establish or maintain relationships with third party collaborators or develop in-house sales and distribution capabilities. To the extent that we depend on third parties for marketing and distribution, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties, as well as the terms of our agreements with such third parties, which cannot be predicted at this early stage of our development. There can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. In addition, there can also be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell our products in the United States or overseas. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. The market for our product candidates is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. If our product candidates receive FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. In particular, assuming we obtain approval for Talotrexin, we will compete with existing antifolate therapies currently being sold by Pfizer (trimetrexate), Eli Lilly & Co. (pemetrexed) and Novartis (edatrexate). Although there are no approved radiation sensitizers currently on the market, there are several product candidates in development that will compete with IPdR and which are significantly further in development. For example, Allos Therapeutics and Pharmacyclics each have a radiation sensitizer in Phase III development. Zensana™ (ondansetron oral spray) will compete with the currently available oral form of the drug, which is currently being manufactured and sold by GlaxoSmithKline under the name Zofran®. These or other future competing products and product candidates may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs and have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: 18 · developing drugs; · undertaking pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; · formulating and manufacturing drugs; and · launching, marketing and selling drugs. Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. Companies that currently sell both generic and proprietary compounds for the treatment of cancer include, among others, Pfizer (trimetrexate), Eli Lilly & Company (pemetrexed), Novartis (edatrexate), and Allos (PDX). Alternative technologies are being developed to treat cancer and immunological disease, several of which are in advanced clinical trials. In addition, companies pursuing different but related fields represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel, parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We are not aware of any third party infringing on any of our intellectual property rights. To date, through our license agreements for Talotrexin, IPdR and Zensana™ (ondansetron oral spray), we hold certain exclusive patent rights, including rights under U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications. We also have patent applications pending in several foreign jurisdictions. We anticipate filing additional patent applications both in the U.S. and in other countries, as appropriate. However, we cannot predict: · the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties will find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our licensed patents; · if and when patents will issue; · whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our licensed patents and patent applications; or · whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose. Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and our inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, we require all of our employees to enter into agreements which prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired and our business and competitive position would suffer. 19 If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages, and defend against litigation. To date, we have not received any threats, claims or other notices from third parties alleging that our products or methods infringe their rights. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, however, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: · obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; · stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others, which could cause us to lose the use of one or more of our product candidates; · pay damages; or · defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our valuable management resources. Our license agreements relating to our product candidates may be terminated in the event we commit a material breach, the result of which would significantly harm our business prospects. Our license agreements relating to Talotrexin, IPdR and Zensana™ (ondansetron oral spray) are subject to termination by our licensors in the event we materially breach those agreements. With respect to the Talotrexin license, our licensor may terminate the agreement, after giving us notice and an opportunity to cure, if we commit a material breach, including failing to make a scheduled milestone or other payment when due. The agreement also provides that it may be terminated if we become involved in a bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding. Our license agreements for IPdR and Zensana™ contain similar provisions. In the event these license agreements are terminated, we will lose all of our rights to develop and commercialize the applicable product candidate covered by such license, which would significantly harm our business and future prospects. Our ability to generate product revenues will be diminished if our drugs sell for inadequate prices or patients are unable to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our drugs, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from: · government and health administration authorities; · private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and · other healthcare payers. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Healthcare payers, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Under recently-proposed legislation, the cost of our product candidates, even if approved for commercial use, may not be reimbursable under Medicare. Government and other healthcare payers increasingly attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. Even if our product candidates are approved by the FDA, insurance coverage may not be available, and reimbursement levels may be inadequate, to cover our drugs. If government and other healthcare payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for any of our products, once approved, market acceptance of our products could be reduced. 20 If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business may be harmed. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial resources. To manage this growth, we expect that in the next 12 months we will hire an additional three employees, consisting of one person in an administrative function and two employees focused on research and development. We expect that the total cost of these additional employees will approximate $325,000 per year. We believe our current facilities are sufficient for such increase in headcount, but additional employees may place a strain on our management by having to address additional administrative needs. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our ability to manage the business may be harmed. In addition, we are also actively pursuing additional product candidates to acquire for development. Acquiring these additional products, if any, could significantly increase our capital requirements and place further administrative strain on our existing personnel, which may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development of our existing product candidates if our employees are unable to devote sufficient time to developing those products. Alternatively, we may be required to hire even more employees, further increasing the size of our organization and related expenses. If we are unable to manage this growth successfully, we may not efficiently use our resources, which may delay the development of our product candidates. We rely on key executive officers and their experience and knowledge of our business would be difficult to replace in the event any of them left our company. We are highly dependent on Mark J. Ahn, Ph.D., our president and chief executive officer, Fred Vitale, our vice president and chief business officer, Gregory Berk, our senior vice president and chief medical officer and John Iparraguirre, our vice president and chief financial officer. Dr. Ahn’s, Mr. Vitale’s and Dr. Berk’s employment with us are governed by a written employment agreements. Dr. Ahn’s and Mr. Vitale’s employment agreements provide for a term that expire in November 2008. Dr. Berk’s employment term under his agreement expires in November 2007. Mr. Iparraguirre does not have a written employment agreement with us. Dr. Ahn, Mr. Vitale, Dr. Berk and Mr. Iparraguirre may terminate their employment with us at any time, however, subject to certain non-compete and non-solicitation covenants. We are not aware that Dr. Ahn, Mr. Vitale, Dr. Berk and Mr. Iparraguirre have any plans to leave our company. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies for any of our officers and key employees. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise that would resulting the event Dr. Ahn left our company could result in delays in the development of our product candidates and diversion of management resources. The loss of Mr. Vitale could impair our ability to expand our product development pipeline, which may harm our business prospects. The loss of Dr. Berk could impair our ability initiate new, and sustain existing, clinical trials. The loss of Mr. Iparraguirre could impair our ability to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business may be harmed. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in pre-clinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing and sales and marketing. In particular, over the next 12 months we plan to hire nine additional employees, consisting of one employee in an administrative function, five employees focused on research and development and three employees focused on sales and marketing. We expect that the hiring of such additional personnel will increase our annual expenditures by approximately $900,000. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area, is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with collaborators. We currently do not carry product liability insurance but instead maintain a $5 million clinical trial insurance policy for the ongoing Phase I and Phase I/II trials of Talotrexin. Although we intend to obtain clinical trial insurance prior to the commencement of any clinical trials for IPdR and Zensana™ (ondansetron oral spray), we, or any collaborators, may not be able to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. 21 Risks Related to Our Securities Our stock price is, and we expect it to remain, volatile, which could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit. Since the completion of the EMLR-Hana Biosciences merger transaction in July 2004 through December 31, 2005, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $15.00 per share to a low of $1.25 per share, as adjusted to reflect the 1-for-12 combination effected in connection with our September 30, 2004 reincorporation. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; · developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; · regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; · economic or other crises and other external factors; · period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and other results of operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and · sales of our common stock. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Because we do not expect to pay dividends, you will not realize any income from an investment in our common stock unless and until you sell your shares at profit. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends for the foreseeable future. You should not rely on an investment in our stock if you require dividend income. Further, you will only realize income on an investment in our shares in the event you sell or otherwise dispose of your shares at a price higher than the price you paid for your shares. Such a gain would result only from an increase in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 