Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following factors affect our business and the industries in which we operate. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties may exist which are not presently known or which may also have an adverse effect on our business. You should carefully consider these risk factors and other information in this annual report on Form 10-K before deciding to become a holder of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be negatively affected to a significant extent. GENERAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY It is uncertain when we will have significant operating income or cash flow from operations sufficient to sustain our operations. As of March 31, 2009, our cash balance was approximately $300,000. However, our base business still consumes cash and we have to generate more revenues and/or funding to avoid running out of cash. If financing is available, it may involve issuing securities senior to our common stock or equity financings, which are dilutive to holders of our common stock. In addition, in the event we do not raise additional capital from conventional sources, such as our existing investors or commercial banks, there is a likelihood that our growth will be restricted and we may be forced to scale back or curtail our business plan. If we are unable to raise the additional funding, the value of our securities could become worthless and we may be forced to abandon our business plan. We will need additional capital to conduct our operations and fund our business and our ability to obtain the necessary funding is uncertain. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing or other various means to fund our business. In such a case, adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. If we need to raise additional funds in the future, by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result, and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. We may be unable to raise additional funds by issuing debt securities due to our high leverage and due to restrictive covenants contained in our senior debt, assuming such senior debt, which may restrict our ability to expend or raise capital in the future. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future and we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from new business arrangements, we will be unable to continue in our current form and will be forced to restructure or seek creditor protection. If this were to happen, our results of operations and the value of our securities could be adversely affected. We have a limited operating history and our business and marketing strategies planned are not yet proven, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business performance. We have not yet been able to commercialize the capabilities of our applied jetting technology and are not conducting operations with the abrasive technology. We have no established basis to assure investors that our business or marketing strategies will be successful. Because we have a limited operating history, there is little historical financial data upon which an investor may evaluate our business performance. An investor must consider the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of development, particularly companies with limited capital in a rapidly evolving market. These risks and difficulties include our ability to meet our debt service and capital obligations, develop a commercial milling or jetting process with our AFJ technology, attract and maintain a base of customers, provide customer support, personnel, and facilities to support our business, and respond effectively to competitive and technological developments. Our business strategy may not be successful or may not successfully address any of these risks or difficulties and we may not be able to generate future revenues. 14 Significant amounts of our outstanding shares of common stock are restricted from immediate resale but will be available for resale into the market in the near future, which could potentially cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. As of March 30, 2009, we had 66,817,404 shares of common stock issued and outstanding held by approximately 349 shareholders of record, including the 1,150,000 shares approved for issuance but remaining un-issued under the class action settlement from 2005. Blast is waiting on plaintiff’s counsel to provide its transfer agent with the approved distribution list of the members of the class. Many of our outstanding shares of our common stock are “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As restricted shares, these shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement or under the requirements of Rule 144 or other applicable exemptions from registration under the Act and as required under applicable state securities laws. A sale under Rule 144 or under any other exemption from the Act, if available, or pursuant to registration of shares of common stock of present stockholders, may have a depressive effect upon the price of our common stock in any market that may develop. An excessive sale of our shares may result in a substantial decline in the price of our common stock, and limit our ability to raise capital, even if our business is doing well. Furthermore, the sale of a significant amount of securities into the market could cause the value of our securities to decline in value. One principal stockholder can influence the corporate and management policies of our company. Berg McAfee Companies with its affiliates (“BMC”), effectively control approximately 23% of our outstanding shares of common stock on March 31, 2009, or 35% including common and preferred shares and warrants issued under the terms of the Reorganization in April 2008. Therefore, BMC may have the ability to substantially influence all decisions made by us. Additionally, BMC’s control could have a negative impact on any future takeover attempts or other acquisition transactions. Furthermore, certain types of equity offerings require stockholder approval depending on the exchange on which shares of a company’s common stock are traded. Because our officers and directors do not exercise majority voting control over us, our shareholders who are not officers and directors of us may be able to obtain a sufficient number of votes to choose who serves as our Directors. Because of this, the current composition of our board may change in the future, which could in turn have an effect on those individuals who currently serve in management positions with us. If that were to happen, our new management could affect a change in our business focus and/or curtail or abandon our business operations, which in turn could cause the value of our securities, if any, to decline. In October 2008, Blast’s current board of director, John R. Block, was appointed to the board of directors of AE Biofuels, Inc., a California-based vertically integrated biofuels company. The Chairman and CEO of AE Biofuels, Inc. is Eric McAfee. Mr. McAfee is also the managing partner for McAfee Capital, LLC and president of Berg McAfee Companies, LLC, both of which are significant shareholders of Blast. Additionally, Michael L. Peterson, a current board member is also a director of AE Biofuels, Inc.. The fact that certain of our directors are also directors of entities affiliated with BMC could cause actual or perceived conflicts of interest between us and BMC and could cause the value for our securities to become devalued or worthless. If we are late in filing our Quarterly or Annual reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, we may be de-listed from the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. Pursuant to Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board ("OTCBB") rules relating to the timely filing of periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), any OTCBB issuer which fails to file a periodic report (Form 10-Q or 10-K) by the due date of such report (not withstanding any extension granted to the issuer by the filing of a Form 12b-25), three times during any 24 month period is automatically de-listed from the OTCBB. Such removed issuer would not be re-eligible to be listed on the OTCBB for a period of one year, during which time any subsequent late filing would reset the one-year period of de-listing. If we are late in our filings three times in any 24 month period and are de-listed from the OTCBB, our securities may become worthless and we may be forced to curtail or abandon our business plan. 15 Because our common stock is considered a “penny stock,” certain rules may impede the development of increased trading activity and could affect the liquidity for stockholders. Our common stock is subject to the SEC “penny stock rules.” The rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stock securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of penny stock securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the “penny stock rules” require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities, and, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information on the limited market in penny stocks. These rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity of our common stock in the secondary market. In addition, the penny-stock rules could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital in the future from offerings of our common stock. On July 7, 2005, the SEC approved amendments to the penny stock rules. The amendments provide that broker-dealers be required to enhance their disclosure schedule to investors who purchase penny stocks, and that those investors have an explicit “cooling-off period” to rescind the transaction. These amendments could place further constraints on broker-dealers’ ability to sell our securities. Our markets may be adversely affected by oil and gas industry conditions that are beyond our control. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as the supply of and demand for oil and gas, domestic and worldwide economic conditions, political instability in oil producing countries and merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas producers. Those conditions frequently change the level of drilling and work-over activity by producers. A reduction in activity could increase competition among energy services business such as ours, making it more difficult for us to attract and maintain customers, or could adversely affect the price we could charge for our services and the utilization rate we may achieve. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the energy service business, which are beyond our control. If those risks are not adequately insured or indemnified against, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our operations are also subject to many hazards inherent in the land drilling business, including, but not limited to blow outs, damaged well bores, fires, explosions, equipment failures, poisonous gas emissions, loss of well control, loss of hole, damage or lost drill strings and damage or loss from inclement weather or other natural disasters. These hazards are to some extent beyond our control and could cause, among other things, personal injury and death, serious damage or destruction of property and equipment, suspension of drilling operations, and substantial damage to the producing formations and surrounding environment. Our insurance policies for public liability and property damage to others and injury or death to persons are in some cases subject to large deductibles and may not be sufficient to protect us against liability for all consequences of well disasters, personal injury, extensive fire damage or damage to the environment. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable, or particular types of coverage may not be available. The occurrence of events, including any of the above-mentioned risks and hazards, that are not fully insured against or the failure of a customer that has agreed to indemnify us against certain liabilities to meet its indemnification obligations could subject us to significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to liabilities for noncompliance, which could adversely affect us. The U.S. oil and natural gas industry is affected from time to time in varying degrees by political developments and federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable to our business. Our operations are vulnerable to certain risks arising from the numerous environmental health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling activities, require reporting of the storage, use or release of certain chemicals and hazardous substances, require removal or cleanup of contamination under certain circumstances, and impose substantial civil liabilities or criminal penalties for violations. Environmental laws and regulations may impose strict liability, rendering a company liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault, and could expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others, or for our acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such acts were performed. Moreover, there has been a trend in recent years toward stricter standards in environmental, health and safety legislation and regulation, which may continue. We may incur material liability related to our operations under governmental regulations, including environmental, health and safety requirements. We cannot predict how existing laws and regulations may be interpreted by enforcement agencies or court rulings, whether additional laws and regulations will be adopted, or the effect such changes may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because the requirements imposed by such laws and regulations are subject to change, we are unable to forecast the ultimate cost of compliance with such requirements. The modification of existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or development drilling for oil and natural gas for economic, political, environmental or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on us by limiting drilling opportunities. Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss of whom could disrupt our business operations. We depend to a large extent on the services of some of our executive officers and directors. Specifically, the loss of the services of John O’Keefe, our Chief Executive Officer or John MacDonald, our Chief Financial Officer, with whom we currently have one year employment agreements with, as described below under “Item 11. Executive Compensation,” could severely disrupt our operations. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and may not be able to enforce the non-compete provisions in their employment agreements. We do not currently maintain key man insurance against loss of these individuals. Failure to retain key members of our management may have a material adverse effect on our continued operations. Because of the inherent dangers involved in oil and gas exploration, there is a risk that we may incur liability or damages as we conduct our business operations, which could force us to expend a substantial amount of money in connection with litigation and/or a settlement. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating hazards and risks such as well blowouts, pipe failures, casing collapse, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. These hazards and risks could result in substantial losses to us from, among other things, injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, cleanup responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred and/or we could be forced to expend substantial monies in connection with litigation or settlements. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of such risks and losses. As such, there can be no assurance that any insurance obtained by us will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities. We cannot predict the availability of insurance or the availability of insurance at premium levels that justify our purchase. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operations, which could lead to any investment in us becoming worthless. 17 Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will strain our limited financial and management resources. We anticipate incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses in connection with our status as a fully reporting public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") and new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. As such, our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure of controls and procedures. In particular, for this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we were required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For fiscal year 2009, Section 404 will require us to obtain a report from our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to the assessment made by management. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and therefore only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to our stockholders. We currently anticipate that we will retain all future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. In addition, the terms of our senior note prohibit us from paying dividends and making other distributions. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may not occur, will provide a return to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock historically has been volatile. The market price of our common stock historically has fluctuated significantly based on, but not limited to, such factors as general stock market trends, announcements of developments related to our business, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, our ability or inability to generate new revenues, conditions and trends in the industries in which our customers are engaged. Our common stock is traded on the OTCBB under the symbol “BESV.” In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price fluctuations that have oftentimes been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Similarly, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly based upon factors unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates or international currency fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 18 We currently have a sporadic, illiquid, volatile market for our common stock, and the market for our common stock may remain sporadic, illiquid, and volatile in the future. We currently have a highly sporadic, illiquid and volatile market for our common stock, which market is anticipated to remain sporadic, illiquid and volatile in the future and will likely be subject to wide fluctuations in response to several factors, including, but not limited to: (1) actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; (2) our ability or inability to generate revenues; (3) the number of shares in our public float; (4) increased competition; and (5) conditions and trends in the market for oil and gas and down-hole services. Furthermore, because our common stock is traded on the Over The Counter Bulletin Board, our stock price may be impacted by factors that are unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates or international currency fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Due to the limited volume of our shares which trade, we believe that our stock prices (bid, asked and closing prices) may not be related to the actual value of the Company, and not reflect the actual value of our common stock. Shareholders and potential investors in our common stock should exercise caution before making an investment in the Company, and should not rely on the publicly quoted or traded stock prices in determining our common stock value, but should instead determine value of our common stock based on the information contained in the Company's public reports, industry information, and those business valuation methods commonly used to value private companies. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DOWN-HOLE SOLUTIONS BUSINESS We currently have only a few active customers. If we are unable to attract more permanent customers, we will not be able to generate revenue. The deployment of our AFJ rig may not result into a significant number of customer orders or realized cash revenue. If we are unable to attract customers and generate sufficient revenue or arrange new financing, we will be unable to continue in our current form and will be forced to restructure or seek creditor protection. Our business plan relies on the successful deployment of a new generation coiled tubing unit utilizing applied fluid jetting, which has not been well established in the energy service industry. Our AFJ service intends to provide well stimulation and lateral drilling services to oil and gas producers. Since we are among the first to commercially apply the proven applied jetting techniques to the energy producing business, we cannot guarantee that our custom drilling rig design based on the AFJ concept will be adequate or that the applied jetting technology will stimulate additional oil and gas production. We may not achieve the designed results from application of the technology. Customers may not accept the services we offer. Any of these results could have a negative impact on the development of our business. Our customers may not realize the expected benefits of enhanced production or lower costs from our applied jetting technology, which may impair market acceptance of our drilling services. Our AFJ business will be heavily dependent upon our customers achieving enhanced production, or lower costs, from certain types of existing oil and gas wells. Many of the wells for which the technology will be used on have been abandoned for some time due to low production volumes or other reasons. In some cases, we could experience difficulty in having the enhanced production reach the market due to the gathering field pipeline system’s disrepair resulting from the age of the fields, significant amounts of deterioration of the reservoirs in the abandoned wells or the reliability of the milling process. Our AFJ technology may not achieve enhanced production from every well drilled, or, if enhanced production is achieved initially, it may not continue for the duration necessary to achieve payout or reach the market on a timely basis. The failure to screen adequately and achieve projected enhancements could result in making the application of the technology uneconomic for our customers. Failure to achieve an economic benefit for our customers in the provision of this service would significantly impair the development of our AFJ business and limit our ability to achieve revenue from these operations. 19 Geological uncertainties may negatively impact the effectiveness of our applied jetting services. Oil and gas fields may be depleted and zones may not be capable of stimulation by our applied jetting technology due to geological uncertainties such as lack of reservoir drive or adequate well pressure. Such shortcomings may not be identifiable. The failure to avoid such shortcomings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Competition within the well service industry may adversely affect our ability to market our services. The well service industry is highly competitive and includes several large companies as well as other independent drilling companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. These greater resources could allow those competitors to compete more effectively than we can. While the large energy service companies are not currently competing for production stimulation business in the low productivity wells that we target, this may change. Failure to successfully compete within our industry would significantly impair the development of our AFJ business and limit our ability to generate sufficient revenue from these operations. We have no issued patents for our technology and although we have recently filed a pending patent application, such patent application has not been approved to date. As a result, companies with products similar to ours may sue us in the future claiming our activities infringe on their patent rights. While we have recently filed a patent application for our AFJ technology, such patent has not been approved or granted to date. As such, we have no issued patents or pending for our technology in the United States or any other country. In the event the patent application for our AFJ technology is not granted, we will not be able to stop other companies from lawfully practicing technology identical or similar to ours in the future. If we are sued by another company claiming our activities infringe on their patent, and we are not able to prove the prior use of such technology, we could be forced to abandon our technology and/or expend substantial expenses in defending against another company's claims. This could have a severely adverse affect on our revenues and could cause any investment in the Company to decline in value and/or become worthless. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS BUSINESS We are in the early stages of defining a new intelligent-monitoring network-system for oil and gas customers in remote locations. Currently, we are in the early stages of defining a new intelligent-monitoring network-system for oil and gas customers in remote locations called IPSM. Such new technical developments and product offerings have not been proven in the market place and may fail. The failure of our intelligent-monitoring network-system would adversely affect are ability to generate revenues from this part of our business, which in turn would adversely affect an investment in our Company. Our satellite business is highly dependent upon a few key suppliers of satellite networking components, hardware, and technological services. Our satellite business is heavily dependent on agreements with Spacenet, ViaSat and other equipment and service providers. These strategic relationships provide key network technology, satellite data transport, hardware and software. Failure of Spacenet, ViaSat or other key relationships to meet our expectations or termination of a relationship with one of our key providers could adversely affect our ability to provide customers with our satellite services and could lead to a loss in revenues, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 20 We are dependent on only a few key customers for the majority of our revenues from our satellite business, and if we were to lose such customers, our results of operations would be severely impacted. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we generated approximately $400,000 in revenues through our satellite business, of which approximately 70% of those revenues came from only three customers. Specifically, our major satellite services customers in 2008 included BP America, Apache and Dow Chemical, representing 37%, 18% and 16%, respectively, of our satellite revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. If we were to lose any of those customers and were unable to find similarly sized customers to take their place, our results of operations and revenues could be severely impacted, and we could be forced to curtail or abandon our current business plan and/or business operations. We depend upon our vendors and their affiliates to provide services that we require to operate the network we use to provide services to our customers. We are not and do not plan to become a licensee of the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and do not hold any authorization to operate satellite communications facilities. We depend upon licenses held by Spacenet and ViaSat and their subsidiaries for our satellite communications. If the licenses held by Spacenet and ViaSat are limited or revoked, if the FCC limits the number of its customer premises earth stations or if Spacenet or ViaSat fails to operate the earth stations providing service to us and our subscribers in a satisfactory manner, we may not be able to provide our customers with proper service, which could lead to a loss in revenues and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third-party independent contractors to install our customer premises equipment at new subscribers’ businesses and remote locations. We do not control the hiring, training, certification and monitoring of the employees of our third-party independent contractors. If growth of our new subscriber base outpaces growth of our installer base or if the installers fail to provide the quality of service that our customers expect, the introduction of our service could be delayed, which could lead to a postponement or loss in satellite revenues. The service we provide is entirely dependent on the functionality of satellites on which we lease transponders and on our computer and communications hardware and software. Our ability to provide service is entirely dependent on the functionality of satellites on which we lease transponders. These satellites may experience failure, loss, damage or destruction from a variety of causes, including war, anti-satellite devices and collision with space debris. The ability to provide timely information and services depends also on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Despite precautions, there is always the danger that human error or sabotage could substantially disrupt the system. If any of these events occurs, we are likely to suffer a permanent loss of service, temporary gaps in service availability, or decreased quality of service. Any such failure in the service we provide could lead to a loss in revenues and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to attract or retain subscribers, our Satellite Communications business would be materially harmed. Our success depends upon our ability to rapidly grow our subscriber base and retain our existing customers. Several factors may negatively impact this ability, including: · loss of our existing sales employees, resulting in our lack of access to potential subscribers; · failure to establish and maintain the Blast Energy Services brand through advertising and marketing, or erosion of our brand due to misjudgments in service offerings; · failure to develop or acquire technology for additional value added services that appeals to the evolving preferences of our subscribers; · failure to meet our expected minimum sales commitments to Spacenet and ViaSat; and · failure to provide the minimum transmission speeds and quality of service our customers expect. 21 In addition, our service may require customers to purchase our satellite system equipment and to pay our monthly subscriber fees. The price of the equipment and the subscription fees may be higher than the price of many dial-up, DSL and cable modem internet access services, where available. In some instances, we expect to subsidize our subscribers’ customer premises equipment to encourage the purchase of our service and to offset our higher relative costs but such subsidy may not be possible. Failure to attract or retain subscribers would affect our ability to generate satellite revenues. We may fail to manage any potential growth or expansion, negatively impacting our quality of service or overcapacity impacting profitability. If we fail to manage our potential rapid growth and expansion effectively or expand and allocate our resources efficiently, we may not be able to retain or grow our subscriber base. While we believe that the trend toward satellite broadband information services in the energy market will continue to develop, our future success is highly dependent on increased use of these services within the sector. The number of satellite broadband users willing to pay for online services and information may not continue to increase. If our assumptions regarding the usage patterns of our subscribers are wrong, our subscribers’ usage patterns change or the market for satellite broadband services fails to develop as expected, we will have either too little or too much satellite capacity, both of which could harm our business. If we achieve the substantial subscriber growth that we anticipate, we will need to procure additional satellite capacity. If we are unable to procure this capacity, we may be unable to provide service to our subscribers or the quality of service we provide may not meet their expectations. Failure to manage any potential growth may have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to generate satellite revenues. Our current services may become obsolete due to the highly competitive and continued advancement of the satellite industry. Larger service providers may provide services at lower costs. Intense competition in the internet services market and inherent limitations in existing satellite technology may negatively affect the number of our subscribers. Competition in the market for consumer internet access services is intense, and we expect the level of competition to intensify in the future. We compete with providers of various high-speed communications technologies for local access connections such as cable modem and DSL. We also may face competition from traditional telephone companies, competitive local exchange carriers and wireless communication companies. As our competitors expand their operations to offer high speed internet services, we may no longer be the only high-speed service available in certain markets. We also expect additional competitors with satellite-based networks to begin operations soon. In particular, some satellite companies have announced that in the future they may offer high-speed internet service at the same price or at a lower price than we currently intend to offer and are offering our services. The market for internet services and satellite technology is characterized by rapid change, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new technological developments. These new standards and developments could make our existing or future services obsolete. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand name recognition, larger subscriber bases and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Therefore, they may be able to respond more quickly than we can respond to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or subscriber requirements. Our effort to keep pace with the introduction of new standards and technological developments and effectively compete with larger service providers could result in additional costs or the effort could prove difficult or impossible. The failure to keep pace with these changes and to continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our services could harm our ability to attract and retain users, which could lead to a loss of satellite revenues. We may be subject to significant liability for our products. If our products contain defects, we may be subject to significant liability claims from subscribers and other users of our products and incur significant unexpected expenses or lost revenues. Our satellite communications products are complex and may contain undetected errors or failures. We also have exposure to significant liability claims from our customers because our products are designed to provide critical communications services. Our product liability insurance and contractual limitations in our customer agreements may not cover all potential claims resulting from a defect in one or more of our products. Failure of our products to perform satisfactorily could cause us to lose revenue, as well as to experience delay in or loss of market acceptance and sales, products returns, diversion of research and development resources, injury to our reputation or increased service and warranty costs. 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 