Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, operations, liquidity and stock price materially and adversely. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall and you could lose all or part of your investment We have limited funds to support our current operations. We anticipate that our current capital resources, together with anticipated cash from operations, will be sufficient to fund our operations through the end of 2013. We have a relatively limited history of producing bulk amorphous alloy components and products on a mass-production scale. Furthermore, Visser’s ability to produce our products in desired quantities and at commercially reasonable prices is uncertain and is dependent on a variety of factors that are outside of its control, including the nature and design of the component, the customer’s specifications, and required delivery schedules. Such factors may require that we raise additional funds to support our operations beyond 2013. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be required to alter or reduce the scope of our operations. Our indebtedness reduces our financial flexibility and could impede out ability to operate. In a private placement completed on July 2, 2012, we issued an aggregate of $12.0 million in principal amount of senior convertible notes (the “Convertible Notes”). The Convertible Notes are payable in twelve equal monthly installments which began in October 2012. Although the Convertible Notes are payable through the issuance of shares of our common stock to holders of the Convertible Notes, the ability to issue stock in satisfaction of the note payments is subject to various conditions (including trading volume conditions) that we may not be able to meet. In such event, we could be required to use cash to repay some or all of a portion of the Convertible Notes, and we may not have the funds to make such payments when due. To date, we have not met the conditions for paying the installment payments under the Convertible Notes in shares of stock, but the holders of such notes have waived such conditions, and there is no assurance that they will continue to waive such conditions in the future. Even if we do have the funds to make cash payments in satisfaction of the installment payments due under the Convertible Notes, the payments may adversely affect our ability to fund our operations. Additionally, documents relating to the issuance of the Convertible Notes impose certain restrictive covenants on us that may impede our ability to operate our company. For example, they prevent us from incurring additional debt, with certain exceptions, while the Convertible Notes are still outstanding. Even if we have the right to satisfy the Convertible Notes by issuing shares of our common stock, the shares issued to the holders of the Convertible Notes could be highly dilutive to our shareholders. We anticipate that we will make payments on the Convertible Notes in shares of our common stock, which could be highly dilutive to holders of our common stock. We do not believe that we have the financial ability to make all payments on the Convertible Notes in cash when due. Accordingly, we intend to make such payments in shares of our common stock to the greatest extent possible. Because the price at which we will issue shares to the notes will vary with the market price of our common stock, the repayment of the Convertible Notes with shares of our common stock will be highly dilutive. We have incurred significant operating losses in the past and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have experienced significant cumulative operating losses since our inception. Our operating loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 was $11.8 million while our operating loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 was $6.5 million. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $189.9 million at December 31, 2012. Of this accumulated deficit, $52.1 million was attributable to losses generated by our discontinued parts manufacturing and coatings businesses. We anticipate that we may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. Consequently, it is possible that we may never achieve positive earnings and, if we do achieve positive earnings, we may not be able to achieve them on a sustainable basis. 12 Table of Contents We have a limited history of developing and selling products made from our bulk amorphous alloys. We have a relatively limited history of producing bulk amorphous alloy components and products on a mass-production scale. Furthermore, our supplier’s ability to produce our products in desired quantities and at commercially reasonable prices is uncertain and is dependent on a variety of factors that are outside of its control, including the nature and design of the component, the customer’s specifications, and required delivery timelines. We rely on assumptions about the markets for our products and components that, if incorrect, may adversely affect our profitability. We have made assumptions regarding the market size for, and the manufacturing requirements of, our products and components based in part on information we received from third parties and also from our limited history. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, we may not achieve anticipated market penetration revenue targets or profitability. Our historical results of operations may not be indicative of our future results. As a result of our limited history of developing and marketing bulk amorphous alloy components and products, as well as our new manufacturing strategy of partnering with contract manufacturers and alloy producers, our historical results of operations may not be indicative of our future results. We have entered into an exclusive manufacturing arrangement with Visser Precision Cast, LLC. Pursuant to the terms of a manufacturing services agreement dated June 1, 2012 (the “Visser Manufacturing Services Agreement”) between the Company and Visser Precision Cast, LLC (“Visser”), we have engaged Visser as our exclusive manufacturer of conventional products and components and licensed products and components, which are products and components using or incorporating any of our intellectual property for all fields of use other than consumer electronic products and fields of use covered by exclusive licenses and sublicenses existing on the date of the Visser Manufacturing Services Agreement (such intellectual property, the “LMT Technology”). We have further agreed that we will not, directly or indirectly, conduct manufacturing operations, subcontract for the manufacture of products or components or grant a license to any other party to conduct manufacturing operations using the LMT Technology, except for certain limited exceptions. The term of the Visser Manufacturing Services Agreement is perpetual. Pursuant to the terms of a sublicense agreement dated June 1, 2012 between our company and Visser, we agreed to sublicense to Visser, on a fully-paid up, royalty-free, irrevocable, perpetual, worldwide basis, all rights held by us in the LMT Technology. In addition, Visser has a right of first refusal over any proposed transfer by us of LMT Technology pursuant to any license, sublicense, sale or other transfer, other than a license to a machine or alloy vendor. A disruption of the operations of Visser could cause significant delays in shipments of our products and may adversely affect our revenue, cost of goods sold and results of operations. Furthermore, Visser’s ability to produce our products in desired quantities and at commercially reasonable prices is uncertain and is dependent on a variety of factors that are outside of its control, including the nature and design of the component, the customer’s specifications, and required delivery timelines. We primarily rely on sole source suppliers for mold making, manufacturing and alloying of our bulk amorphous alloy and parts, as well as the manufacturing of our bulk amorphous alloy production machines. We currently have one supplier who fulfills the mold making and manufacturing of our bulk amorphous alloy parts. Our supplier may allocate its limited capacity to fulfill the production requirements of its other customers. In the event of a disruption of the operations of our supplier, we may not have a secondary manufacturing source immediately available. Such an event could cause significant delays in shipments and may adversely affect our revenue, cost of goods sold and results of operations. We currently have one supplier who fulfills our alloying/manufacturing of bulk amorphous alloys. In the event of a disruption of the operations of our alloy supplier, we may not have a secondary alloying source immediately available. Such an event could cause significant delays in shipments and may adversely affect our revenue, cost of goods sold and results of operations. Our bulk amorphous alloy production machines are manufactured by limited suppliers. Orders for additional machines are estimated to be built with a 26-week lead time. If our bulk alloy parts supplier requires more production machines to manufacture customer parts due to an unexpected demand, we may experience delays in shipment, increased cost of goods sold or loss in revenues. Additionally, in the event of a disruption in the operations of our production machine suppliers, our bulk alloy parts supplier may not have a secondary machine manufacturer immediately available. Such an event could cause significant delays in fulfilling customers’ orders and may adversely affect our revenue, cost of goods sold and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We rely on a supplier that has limited experience in manufacturing our products, and our supplier may encounter manufacturing problems or delays or may be unable to produce sufficient, high-quality products at acceptable costs. We rely on our supplier to manufacture all of our Liquidmetal alloy products, including products that we develop in conjunction with our customers. Our supplier has limited experience in manufacturing our products and may be required to manufacture a range of products in high volumes while ensuring high quality and consistency. We cannot assure you that our supplier will be able to meet all of our manufacturing needs. We also cannot assure you that our supplier will be able to produce the intended products with the production yields, quality controls, and production costs that we currently assume. If we cannot establish and maintain relationships with customers that incorporate our components and products into their finished goods, we will not be able to increase our revenue and commercialize our products. Our business is based upon the commercialization of a new and unique materials technology. Our ability to increase our revenues will depend on our ability to successfully maintain and establish relationships with customers who are willing to incorporate our proprietary alloys and technology into their finished products. However, we believe that the size of our company and the novel nature of our technology and manufacturing process may continue to make it challenging to maintain and establish such relationships. In addition, we rely and will continue to rely to a large extent on the manufacturing, research, and development capabilities, as well as the marketing and distribution capabilities, of our customers in order to commercialize our products. Our future growth and success will depend in large part on our ability to enter into these relationships and the subsequent success of these relationships. Even if our products are selected for use in a customer’s products, we still may not realize significant revenue from that customer if that customer’s products are not commercially successful. It may take significant time and cost for us to develop new customer relationships, which may delay our ability to generate additional revenue or achieve profitability. Our ability to generate revenue from new customers is generally affected by the amount of time it takes for us to, among other things: ● identify a potential customer and introduce the customer to Liquidmetal alloys; ● work with the customer to select and design the parts to be fabricated from Liquidmetal alloys; ● make the molds and tooling to be used to produce the selected part; ● make prototypes and samples for customer testing; ● work with our customers to test and analyze prototypes and samples; and ● with respect to some types of products, such as medical devices, obtain regulatory approvals. We believe that our average sales cycle (the time we deliver a proposal to a customer until the time our customer fully integrates our Liquidmetal alloys into its product) could be a significant period of time. Our history to date has demonstrated that the sales cycle could extend beyond two years. The time it takes to transition a customer from limited production to full-scale production runs will depend upon the nature of the processes and products into which our Liquidmetal alloys are integrated. Moreover, we have found that customers often proceed very cautiously and slowly before incorporating a fundamentally new and unique type of material into their products. 14 Table of Contents After we develop a customer relationship, it may take a significant amount of time for that customer to develop, manufacture, and sell finished goods that incorporate our components and products. Our experience has shown that our customers will perform numerous tests and extensively evaluate our components and products before incorporating them into their finished products. The time required for testing, evaluating, and designing our components and products into a customer’s products, and in some cases, obtaining regulatory approval, can be significant, with an additional period of time before a customer commences volume production of products incorporating our components and products, if ever. Moreover, because of this lengthy development cycle, we may experience a delay between the time we accrue expenses for research and development and sales and marketing efforts and the time when we generate revenue, if any. We may incur substantial costs in an attempt to transition a customer from initial testing to prototype and from prototype to final product. If we are unable to minimize these transition costs, or to recover the costs of these transitions from our customers, our operating results will be adversely affected. A limited number of our customers generate a significant portion of our revenue. For the near future, we expect that a significant portion of our revenue may be concentrated in a limited number of customers. A reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders from one or more of these customers or the loss of one or more customer relationships could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. Unless we establish long-term sales arrangements with these customers, they will have the ability to reduce or discontinue their purchases of our products on short notice. We expect to rely on our customers to market and sell finished goods that incorporate our products and components, a process over which we will have little control. Our future revenue growth and ultimate profitability will depend in part on the ability of our customers to successfully market and sell their finished goods that incorporate our products. We will have little control over our customers’ marketing and sales efforts. These marketing and sales efforts may be unsuccessful for various reasons, any of which could hinder our ability to increase revenue or achieve profitability. For example, our customers may not have or devote sufficient resources to develop, market, and sell their finished goods that incorporate our products. Because we typically will not have exclusive sales arrangements with our customers, they will not be precluded from exploring and adopting competing technologies. Also, products incorporating competing technologies may be more successful for reasons unrelated to the performance of our customers’ products or the marketing efforts of our customers. Our growth depends on our ability to identify, develop, and commercialize new applications for our technology. Our future growth and success will depend in part on our ability to identify, develop, and commercialize, either alone or in conjunction with our customers, new applications and uses for Liquidmetal alloys. If we are unable to identify and develop new applications, we may be unable to develop new products or generate additional revenue. Successful development of new applications for our products may require additional investment, including costs associated with research and development and the identification of new customers. In addition, difficulties in developing and achieving market acceptance of new products would harm our business. We may not be able to effectively compete with current suppliers of incumbent materials or producers of competing products. The future growth and success of our Liquidmetal alloy business will depend in part on our ability to establish and retain a technological advantage over other materials for our targeted applications. For many of our targeted applications, we will compete with manufacturers of similar products that use different materials many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. These different materials may include plastics, zinc, titanium alloys, or stainless steel, among others, and we will compete directly with suppliers of the incumbent material. In addition, in each of our targeted markets, our success will depend in part on the ability of our customers to compete successfully in their respective markets. Thus, even if we are successful in replacing an incumbent material in a finished product, we will remain subject to the risk that our customer will not compete successfully in its own market. Our bulk amorphous alloy technology is still at an early stage of commercialization relative to many other materials. Our bulk amorphous alloy technology is a relatively new technology as compared to many other material technologies, such as plastics and widely-used high-performance crystalline alloys. Historically, the successful commercialization of a new materials technology has required the persistent improvement and refining of the technology over a sometimes lengthy period of time. Accordingly, we believe that our company’s future success will be dependent on our ability to continue expanding and improving our technology platform by, among other things, constantly refining and improving our processes, optimizing our existing amorphous alloy compositions for various applications, and developing and improving new bulk amorphous alloy compositions. Our failure to further expand our technology base could limit our growth opportunities and hamper our commercialization efforts. 15 Table of Contents Future advances in materials science could render Liquidmetal alloys obsolete. Academic institutions and business enterprises frequently engage in the research and testing of new materials, including alloys and plastics. Advances in materials science could lead to new materials that have a more favorable combination of performance, processing, and cost characteristics than our alloys. The future development of any such new materials could render our alloys obsolete and unmarketable or may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our growth depends upon our ability to retain and attract a sufficient number of qualified employees. Our business is based upon the commercialization of a new and unique materials technology. Our future growth and success will depend in part on our ability to retain key members of our management and scientific staff, who are familiar with this technology and the potential applications and markets for it. We do not have “key man” or similar insurance on any of the key members of our management and scientific staff. If we lose their services or the services of other key personnel, our financial results or business prospects may be harmed. Additionally, our future growth and success will depend in part on our ability to attract, train, and retain scientific engineering, manufacturing, sales, marketing, and management personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary to manage our operations effectively. Competition for experienced executives and scientists from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to hire or retain personnel on acceptable terms. In addition, many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, the employment of otherwise highly qualified non-U.S. citizens may be restricted by applicable immigration laws. We may not be able to successfully identify, consummate, or integrate strategic partnerships. As a part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue strategic partnering transactions that provide access to new technologies, products, markets, and manufacturing capabilities. These transactions could include licensing agreements, joint ventures, or business combinations. We believe that these transactions will be particularly important to our future growth and success due to the size and resources of our company and the novel nature of our technology. For example, we may determine that we may need to license our technology to a larger manufacturer in order to penetrate a particular market. In addition, we may pursue transactions that will give us access to new technologies that are useful in connection with the composition, processing, or application of Liquidmetal alloys. We may not be able to successfully identify any potential strategic partnerships. Even if we do identify one or more potentially beneficial strategic partners, we may not be able to consummate transactions with these strategic partners on favorable terms or obtain the benefits we anticipate from such a transaction. We may derive some portion of our revenue from sales outside the United States which may expose the Company to foreign commerce risks. We may sell a portion of our products to customers outside of the United States, and our operations and revenue may be subject to risks associated with foreign commerce, including transportation delays and foreign tax/legal compliance. Moreover, customers may sell finished goods that incorporate our components and products outside of the United States, which exposes us indirectly to additional foreign commerce risks. A substantial increase in the price or interruption in the supply of raw materials for our alloys could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Our proprietary alloy compositions are comprised of many elements, all of which are generally available commodity products. Although we believe that each of these raw materials is currently readily available in sufficient quantities from multiple sources on commercially acceptable terms, if the prices of these materials substantially increase or there is an interruption in the supply of these materials, such increase or interruption could adversely affect our profitability. For example, if the price of one of the elements included in our alloys substantially increases, we may not be able to pass the price increase on to our customers. 16 Table of Contents Our business could be subject to the potential adverse consequences of exchange rate fluctuations. We expect to conduct business in various foreign currencies and will be exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and such foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could specifically result in foreign exchange gains and losses. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operations cannot be accurately predicted. To the extent that the percentage of our non-U.S. dollar revenue derived from international sales increases in the future, our exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will increase further. Our inability to protect our licenses, patents, trademarks, and proprietary rights in the United States and foreign countries could harm our business. We own several patents relating to amorphous alloy technology, and we have other rights to amorphous alloy patents through an exclusive license from the California Institute of Technology (“Caltech”). Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary right protection for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. Specifically, we must: ● protect and enforce our owned and licensed patents and intellectual property; ● exploit our owned and licensed patented technology; and ● operate our business without infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our licensed technology is comprised of several issued United States patents covering the composition and method of manufacturing of the family of Liquidmetal alloys. We also hold several United States and corresponding foreign patents covering the manufacturing processes of Liquidmetal alloys and their use. Those patents have expiration dates between 2013 and 2028. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter significant problems and costs in protecting our proprietary rights in these foreign countries. In August 2010, we entered into a license transaction with Apple Inc. (“Apple”) pursuant to which (i) we contributed substantially all of our intellectual property assets to a newly organized special-purpose, wholly-owned subsidiary, called Crucible Intellectual Property, LLC (“CIP”), (ii) CIP granted to Apple a perpetual, worldwide, fully-paid, exclusive license to commercialize such intellectual property in the field of consumer electronic products, as defined in the license agreement, and (iii) CIP granted back to us a perpetual, worldwide, fully-paid, exclusive license to commercialize such intellectual property in all other fields of use. Patent law is still evolving relative to the scope and enforceability of claims in the fields in which we operate. Our patent protection involves complex legal and technical questions. Our patents and those patents for which we have license rights may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented. We may be able to protect our proprietary rights from infringement by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. Litigation or other proceedings to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could require us to spend significant time and money and could otherwise adversely affect our business. Other companies or individuals may claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing on valid, enforceable patents or proprietary rights of third parties and without breaching any licenses that may relate to our technologies and products. Future patents issued to third parties may contain claims that conflict with our patents and that compete with our products and technologies, and third parties could assert infringement claims against us. Any litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of their outcome, may be costly and may require significant time and attention of our management and technical personnel. Litigation or interference proceedings could also force us to: ● stop or delay using our technology; ● stop or delay our customers from selling, manufacturing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; 17 Table of Contents ● pay damages; or ● enter into licensing or royalty agreements that may be unavailable on acceptable terms. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the SEC XBRL mandate, new SEC regulations and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), are creating uncertainty for public companies. As a result of these new rules and the size and limited resources of our company, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, and we may not be able to comply with some of these new rules. In addition, these new rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and this could make it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. The time and cost associated with complying with government regulations to which we could become subject could have a material adverse effect on our business. Some of the applications for our Liquidmetal alloys that we have identified or may identify in the future may be subject to government regulations. For example, any medical devices made from our alloys likely will be subject to extensive government regulation in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). Any medical device manufacturers to whom we sell Liquidmetal alloy products may need to comply with FDA requirements, including premarket approval or clearance under Section 510(k) of the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act before marketing Liquidmetal alloy medical device products in the United States. These medical device manufacturers may be required to obtain similar approvals before marketing these medical devices in foreign countries. Any medical device manufacturers with which we jointly develop and sell medical device products may not provide significant assistance to us in obtaining required regulatory approvals. The process of obtaining and maintaining required FDA and foreign regulatory approvals could be lengthy, expensive, and uncertain. Additionally, regulatory agencies can delay or prevent product introductions. The failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in substantial fines, civil and criminal penalties, stop sale orders, loss or denial of approvals, recalls of products, and product seizures. In addition, the processing of beryllium, a minor constituent element of some of our alloys, can result in the release of beryllium into the workplace and the environment and in the creation of beryllium oxide as a by-product. Beryllium is classified as a hazardous air pollutant, a toxic substance, a hazardous substance, and a probable human carcinogen under environmental, safety, and health laws, and various acute and chronic health effects may result from exposure to beryllium. We are required to comply with certain regulatory requirements and to obtain a permit from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or other government agencies to process beryllium. Our failure to comply with present or future governmental regulations related to the processing of beryllium could result in suspension of manufacturing operations and substantial fines or criminal penalties. To the extent that our products have the potential for dual use, such as military and non-military applications, they may be subject to import and export restrictions of the U.S. government, as well as other countries. The process of obtaining any required U.S. or foreign licenses or approvals could be time-consuming, costly, and uncertain. Failure to comply with import and export regulatory requirements can lead to substantial fines, civil and criminal penalties, and the loss of government contracting and export privileges. 18 Table of Contents The existence of minority stockholders in our Liquidmetal Golf subsidiary creates potential for conflicts of interest. We directly own 79% of the outstanding capital stock of Liquidmetal Golf, our subsidiary that has the exclusive right to commercialize our technology in the golf market. The remaining 21% of the Liquidmetal Golf stock is owned by approximately 95 stockholders of record. As a result, conflicts of interest may develop between us and the minority stockholders of Liquidmetal Golf. To the extent that our officers and directors are also officers or directors of Liquidmetal Golf, matters may arise that place the fiduciary duties of these individuals in conflicting positions. Our executive officers, directors and insiders and entities affiliated with them hold a significant percentage of our common stock, and these shareholders may take actions that may be adverse to your interests. As of December 31, 2012, our executive officers, directors and insiders and entities affiliated with them will, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 36% of our common stock and 63% of our preferred stock. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidations and sales of assets. They also could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall or prevent you from receiving a premium in such a transaction. Our stock price has experienced volatility and may continue to experience volatility. During 2012, the highest bid price for our common stock was $0.63 per share, while the lowest bid price during that period was $0.10 per share. The trading price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate widely due to: ● limited current liquidity and the possible need to raise additional capital; ● quarter-to-quarter variations in results of operations; ● announcements of technological innovations by us or our potential competitors; ● changes in or our failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts; ● new products offered by us or our competitors; ● announcements of strategic relationships or strategic partnerships; ● future sales of common stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock; ● adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damages; ● future issuances of common stock in connection with acquisitions or other transactions; ● acts of war, terrorism, or natural disasters; ● industry, domestic and international market and economic conditions, including the global macroeconomic downturn over the last three years and related sovereign debt issues in certain parts of the world; ● low trading volume in our stock; ● developments relating to patents or property rights; ● government regulatory changes; or ● other events or factors that may be beyond our control. 19 Table of Contents In addition, the securities markets in general have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in the past. The trading prices of securities of many companies at our stage of growth have fluctuated broadly, often for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These general market and industry factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. If our stock price is volatile, we could face securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and could cause our stock price to fall. Future sales of our common stock could depress our stock price. Sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the availability of a large number of shares for sale, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock offerings. In the event that we propose to register additional shares of common stock under the Securities Act of 1933 for our own account, certain shareholders are entitled to receive notice of that registration and to include their shares in the registration, subject to limitations described in the agreements granting these rights. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock to date. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our businesses, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debts may preclude us from paying dividends on our stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain for the foreseeable future for our common stockholders. Antitakeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of applicable corporate law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Because of these provisions, you might not be able to receive a premium on your investment. These provisions: ● authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and prevent a takeover attempt; ● limit stockholders’ ability to call a special meeting of our stockholders; and ● establish advance notice requirements to nominate directors for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. The provisions described above, as well as other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law could delay or make more difficult transactions involving a change in control of us or our management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 