Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Future Results of Operations The merger is expected to result in benefits to the combined company, but the combined company may not realize those benefits due to challenges associated with integrating the companies or other factors. The success of the merger will depend in part on the success of management of the combined company in integrating the operations, technologies and personnel of the two companies following the effective time of the merger. The inability of the combined company to meet the challenges involved in integrating successfully our operations with that of ABI or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the merger could seriously harm the combined company’s results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in unanticipated operations problems, expenses, liabilities and diversion of management’s attention. The challenges involved in integration include: • integrating the two company’s operations, technologies and products; • coordinating and integrating sales and marketing, research and development and manufacturing functions; • demonstrating to our customers that the merger will not result in adverse changes in business focus; • assimilating the personnel of both companies and integrating the business cultures of both companies; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; and • maintaining employee morale and motivation. We may not be able to successfully integrate ABI’s operations in a timely manner, or at all, and the combined company may not realize the anticipated benefits of the merger, including synergies or sales or growth 17 opportunities, to the extent or in the time frame anticipated. The anticipated benefits and synergies of the merger are based on assumptions and current expectations, not actual experience, and assume a successful integration. In addition to the potential integration challenges discussed above, the combined company’s ability to realize the benefits and synergies of the business combination could be adversely impacted to the extent that our or ABI’s relationships with existing or potential customers, suppliers or strategic partners is adversely affected as a consequence of the merger, or by practical or legal constraints on its ability to combine operations. Furthermore, financial projections based on these assumptions relating to integration may not be correct if the underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. If the merger is not completed, we will have nonetheless incurred substantial costs and our financial results and operations and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial costs in connection with the pending merger. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of financial advisors, attorneys, accountants and consultants. In addition, we have diverted significant management resources in an effort to complete the merger and are subject to restrictions contained in the merger agreement on the conduct of our business. If the merger is not completed, we will receive little or no benefit from these costs. In addition, if the merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and our customers, suppliers and employees. Each of these factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our financial results and operations. If Abraxane® does not achieve strong market acceptance, our future profitability could be adversely affected and we would be unable to recoup the investments made to commercialize this product. We have made and will continue to make a significant investment in Abraxane®, including upfront and milestone payments, expansion of our marketing, sales and manufacturing staff, the acquisition of paclitaxel raw material, and the manufacture of finished product. In addition, a key consideration in our decision to enter into to the merger agreement with ABI was the fact that ABI holds the worldwide rights to Abraxane®. Following the consummation of our pending merger with ABI, we will also be responsible for conducting clinical trials and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals for the use of Abraxane® in other indications and settings. The success of Abraxane® in the Phase III trial for metastatic breast cancer may not be representative of the future clinical trial results for Abraxane® with respect to other clinical indications. The results from clinical, pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials conducted to date may not be predictive of results to be obtained in later clinical trials, including those ongoing at present. Further, the commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • slower than anticipated patient enrollment • difficulty in finding and retaining patients fitting the trial profile • adverse events occurring during the clinical trials Although approved by the FDA for the indication of metastatic breast cancer in January 2005, Abraxane® may not generate sales sufficient to recoup our investment. In 2005 our net sales of Abraxane® was $133.7 million, which represented approximately 25.8% of our total net sales. We anticipate that sales of Abraxane® will remain a significant portion of our net sales over the next several years. However, a number of pharmaceutical companies are working to develop alternative formulations of paclitaxel and other cancer drugs and therapies, any of which may compete directly or indirectly with Abraxane® and which might adversely affect the commercial success of Abraxane®. Our inability to successfully manufacture, market and commercialize Abraxane® could cause us to lose some of the investment we have made and will continue to make to commercialize this product. 18 If we are unable to develop and commercialize new products, our financial condition will deteriorate. Profit margins for a pharmaceutical product generally decline as new competitors enter the market. As a result, our future success will depend on our ability to commercialize the product candidates we are currently developing, as well as develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. We have over 60 new product candidates under development with more than 23 ANDAs for new injectable products currently pending at the FDA. Successful development and commercialization of our product candidates will require significant investment in many areas, including research and development and sales and marketing, and we may not realize a return on those investments. In addition, development and commercialization of new products are subject to inherent risks, including: • failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals • difficulty or impossibility of manufacture on a large scale • prohibitive or uneconomical costs of marketing products • inability to secure raw material or components from third-party vendors in sufficient quantity or quality or at a reasonable cost • failure to be developed or commercialized prior to the successful marketing of similar or superior products by third parties • lack of acceptance by customers • impact of authorized generic competition • infringement on the proprietary rights of third parties • grant of new patents for existing products may be granted, which could prevent the introduction of newly-developed products for additional periods of time • grant to another manufacturer by the FDA of a 180-day period of marketing exclusivity under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Act, as patents or other exclusivity periods for brand name products expire The timely and continuous introduction of new products is critical to our business. Our financial condition will deteriorate if we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize new products. If sales of our key products decline, our business may be adversely affected. Our top ten products, including Abraxane®, comprised approximately 63% of our 2005 net sales. Our key products could lose market share or revenue due to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • lower prices offered on similar products by other manufacturers • substitute or alternative products or therapies • development by others of new pharmaceutical products or treatments that are more effective than our products • introduction of other generic equivalents or products which may be therapeutically interchanged with our products • interruptions in manufacturing or supply • changes in the prescribing practices of physicians • changes in third-party reimbursement practices • migration of key customers to other manufacturers or sellers 19 Any factor adversely affecting the sale of our key products may cause our revenues to decline. If we or our suppliers are unable to comply with ongoing and changing regulatory standards, sales of our products could be delayed or prevented. Virtually all aspects of our business, including the development, testing, manufacturing, processing, quality, safety, efficacy, packaging, labeling, record-keeping, distribution, storage and advertising of our products and disposal of waste products arising from these activities, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA. Our business is also subject to regulation in foreign countries. Compliance with these regulations is costly and time-consuming. Our manufacturing facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. For example, manufacturers of pharmaceutical products must comply with detailed regulations governing current good manufacturing practices, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance. We must spend funds, time and effort in the areas of production, safety, quality control and quality assurance to ensure compliance with these regulations. We cannot assure that our manufacturing facilities or those of our suppliers will not be subject to regulatory action in the future. Our products generally must receive appropriate regulatory clearance before they can be sold in a particular country, including the United States. We may encounter delays in the introduction of a product as a result of, among other things, insufficient or incomplete submissions to the FDA for approval of a product, objections by another company with respect to our submissions for approval, new patents by other companies, patent challenges by other companies which result in a 180-day exclusivity period, and changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development or during the regulatory approval process. The FDA has the authority to revoke drug approvals previously granted and remove from the market previously approved products for various reasons, including issues related to current good manufacturing practices for that particular product or in general. We may be subject from time to time to product recalls initiated by us or by the FDA. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, the revocation of a prior approval, or product recalls could impose significant costs on us and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. Our inability or the inability of our suppliers to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, consent decrees restricting or suspending our manufacturing operations, delay of approvals for new products, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of sales and criminal prosecution. Any of these or other regulatory actions could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. State pharmaceutical marketing compliance and reporting requirements may expose the combined company to regulatory and legal action by state governments or other government authorities. In recent years, several states, including California, Vermont, Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico and West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs and file periodic reports on sales, marketing, pricing and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and available guidance is limited. Unless we are in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties and could receive adverse publicity, all of which could harm our business. The manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, and if we or our suppliers encounter production problems, our business may suffer. All of the pharmaceutical products we make are sterile, injectable drugs. We also purchase some such products from other companies. Additionally, the process for manufacturing the nano-particle product Abraxane® 20 is relatively new and unique. The manufacture of all our products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements and standards which govern both the manufacture of a particular product and the manufacture of these types of products in general. Problems may arise during their manufacture due to a variety of reasons including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to loss of the cost of raw materials and components used, lost revenue, time and expense spent in investigating the cause, and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If such problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall costs may also be incurred. To the extent we experience problems in the production of our pharmaceutical products, this may be detrimental to our business, operating results and reputation. Our markets are highly competitive and, if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenue will decline and our business will be harmed. The markets for injectable pharmaceutical products are highly competitive, rapidly changing and undergoing consolidation. Most of our products are generic injectable versions of brand name products that are still being marketed by proprietary pharmaceutical companies. The first company to market a generic product is often initially able to achieve high sales, profitability and market share with respect to that product. Prices, revenue and market size for a product typically decline, however, as additional generic manufacturers enter the market. We face competition from major, brand name pharmaceutical companies as well as generic manufacturers such as Hospira, Bedford Laboratories, Baxter Laboratories (including Elkin-Sinn), Sicor Inc. (recently acquired by Teva) and Mayne Pharma (Faulding Pharmaceuticals) and, in the future, increased competition from new, foreign competitors. Smaller and foreign companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaboration arrangements with large and established companies. Abraxane® competes, directly or indirectly, with the primary taxanes in the market place, including Bristol Myers’ Taxol® and its generic equivalents, Aventis’ Taxotere® and other cancer therapies. Many pharmaceutical companies have developed and are marketing, or are developing, alternative formulations of paclitaxel and other cancer therapies that may compete directly or indirectly with Abraxane®. Many of our competitors have significantly greater research and development, financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, regulatory and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of their products, receive greater resources and support for their products, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, more readily take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities, or otherwise more successfully market their products. Any reduction in demand for our products could lead to a decrease in prices, fewer customer orders, reduced revenues, reduced margins, reduced levels of profitability, or loss of market share. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our business and operating results. We face uncertainty related to pricing and reimbursement and health care reform. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other health care-related organizations. Reimbursement by such payors is presently undergoing reform and there is significant uncertainty at this time how this will affect sales of certain pharmaceutical products. Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental reimbursement legislation or programs govern drug coverage and reimbursement levels in the United States. Federal law requires all pharmaceutical manufacturers to rebate a percentage of their revenue arising from Medicaid-reimbursed drug sales to individual states. Generic drug manufacturers’ agreements with federal and state governments provide that the manufacturer will remit to each 21 state Medicaid agency, on a quarterly basis, 11% of the average manufacturer price for generic products marketed and sold under abbreviated new drug applications covered by the state’s Medicaid program. For proprietary products, which are marketed and sold under new drug applications, manufacturers are required to rebate the greater of (a) 15.1% of the average manufacturer price or (b) the difference between the average manufacturer price and the lowest manufacturer price for products sold during a specified period. Both the federal and state governments in the United States and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation, rules and regulations designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care. Existing regulations that affect the price of pharmaceutical and other medical products may also change before any of our products are approved for marketing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any product we develop in the future. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and litigation has been filed against a number of pharmaceutical companies in relation to these issues. Additionally, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved injectable pharmaceutical products, including Abraxane®. Our products may not be considered cost effective or adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an adequate return on our investment. If we are unable to maintain our key customer arrangements, sales of our products and revenue would decline. Almost all injectable pharmaceutical products are sold to customers through arrangements with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs, and distributors. The majority of hospitals contract with the GPO of their choice for their purchasing needs. We currently derive, and expect to continue to derive, a large percentage of our revenue from customers that are members of a small number of GPOs. Currently, fewer than ten GPOs control a large majority of sales to hospital customers. We have purchasing arrangements with the major GPOs in the United States, including AmeriNet, Inc., Broadlane Healthcare Corporation, Consorta, Inc., MedAssets Inc., Novation, LLC, Owen Healthcare, Inc., PACT, LLC, Premier Purchasing Partners, LP, International Oncology Network, or ION, National Oncology Alliance, or NOA, and U.S. Oncology, Inc. In order to maintain these relationships, we believe we need to be a reliable supplier, offer a broad product line, remain price competitive, comply with FDA regulations and provide high-quality products. The GPOs through which we sell our products also have purchasing agreements with other manufacturers that sell competing products and the bid process for products such as ours is highly competitive. Most of our GPO agreements may be terminated on short notice. If we are unable to maintain our arrangements with GPOs and key customers, sales of our products and revenue would decline. Our strategy to license rights to or acquire and commercialize proprietary, biological injectable or other specialty injectable products may not be successful, and we may never receive any return on our investment in these product candidates. Because our research and development activities are not focused on the development of proprietary products, we have and intend to license rights to or acquire products from third parties. Additionally, we are in the process of establishing our capabilities in biologic generic products so that we are able to offer such products when regulatory approvals and patents allow for such products. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial and sales and marketing resources, will compete with us to license rights to or acquire these products. We may not be able to license rights to or acquire these proprietary, or other, products on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we obtain rights to a pharmaceutical product and commit to payment terms, including, in some cases, significant up-front license payments, we may not be able to generate product sales sufficient to create a profit or otherwise avoid a loss. A product candidate may fail to result in a commercially successful drug for other reasons, including the possibility that the product candidate may: • be found during clinical trials to be unsafe or ineffective 22 • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals • be difficult or uneconomical to produce in commercial quantities • be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties • fail to achieve market acceptance Our marketing strategy, distribution channels and levels of competition with respect to any licensed or acquired product may be different from those of our current products, and we may not be able to compete favorably in any new product category. Prior to the closing of the merger, we and ABI are either required to obtain the consent to the merger from our respective lenders under our credit facilities, replace these facilities with a combined expanded credit facility or refinance the outstanding balance under the ABI credit facility. ABI currently has a $200 million credit facility, under which $190 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2005. The ABI credit facility is secured by all of ABI’s assets, including most of the shares of our common stock held by ABI and ABI’s intellectual property. Any amounts outstanding under the ABI credit facility will be assumed by us in connection with our pending merger with ABI. Prior to the consummation of the merger, we expect to enter into an expanded combined credit facility to increase the total credit available and, to the extent necessary, to refinance preexisting debt, including ABI’s debt under its credit facility. Although we believe that we will be able to negotiate an expanded combined credit facility or otherwise refinance ABI’s existing debt on terms acceptable to us, we may be unable to do so. In such event, we may be required to pay off the outstanding balance under the ABI credit facility by using our available cash and/or other borrowings. If we are unable to refinance the outstanding balance under the ABI credit facility or the balance is not paid off prior to the closing of the merger, then we would be in default under the ABI credit facility and the lenders would be entitled to proceed against the assets securing ABI’s obligations, including ABI’s shares of our common stock which are securing such obligations. Under the terms of our existing $150 million credit facility, we also are required to obtain the consent of our lenders to the merger. We had no outstanding balance under our credit facility as of December 31, 2005. If we do not obtain the consent of our lenders, then we would be in default and not be able to borrow under our credit facility. The assumption of ABI’s debt under its credit facility may impose operating and financial restrictions on the combined company, which may prevent the combined company from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. The assumption or refinancing of ABI’s debt under the ABI credit facility may impose operating and financial restrictions on the combined company. These restrictions may limit the combined company’s ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, sell assets, incur certain liens or acquire, merge or consolidate with other businesses. In addition, our existing revolving credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and we expect that any expanded combined credit facility would have similar requirements. We cannot assure that these financial and operational covenants will not hinder our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to pursue available business opportunities, including the purchase of additional facilities. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default under this credit facility. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the outstanding indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. Further, we may require additional capital in the future to expand business operations, acquire businesses or facilities, or replenish cash expended sooner than anticipated. The assumption of debt under ABI’s credit facility may limit the combined company’s ability to obtain additional capital or such additional capital may not otherwise be available on satisfactory terms. 23 American BioScience owns a significant percentage of our common stock and could exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, regardless of the wishes of other stockholders. ABI owns approximately 66.2% of our common stock and has the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidations and sales of assets. If the merger is completed, we expect that we will issue to ABI shareholders approximately 134,080,683 shares of our common stock, with the 47,984,160 shares of our common stock held by ABI prior to the merger and acquired by our company in connection with the merger to be cancelled without payment of any additional merger consideration. Upon completion of the merger, the former holders of ABI common stock, together with the holders of ABI restricted stock units, will be issued shares of our common stock representing approximately 83.5% of our common stock outstanding on a fully-diluted basis immediately following the merger. This percentage reflects only the shares to be issued in the merger but does not include any shares of our common stock held by individual ABI shareholders prior to the merger. Our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Soon-Shiong, is also the president, chief financial officer and a director of ABI. As of December 31, 2005, Dr. Soon-Shiong beneficially owned approximately 98.9% of the outstanding capital stock of ABI. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall or prevent stockholders from receiving a premium in such a transaction. This significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. We have a potential conflict of interest with respect to ABI that we may not be able to resolve on terms favorable to us. Conflicts may arise between ABI and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • terms under the merger agreement • intellectual property matters, as well as licensing arrangements we have entered, or may enter, into with ABI • employee retention and recruiting • loans • payment of dividends • issuances of capital stock • election of directors • business opportunities that may be attractive to both ABI and us In addition, our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Patrick Soon-Shiong, M.D., is also the president, chief financial officer and a director of ABI and beneficially owns approximately 98.9% of the outstanding capital stock of ABI as of December 31, 2005. As a result, he may experience conflicts of interest with respect to decisions involving business opportunities and similar matters that may arise in the ordinary course of our business or the business of ABI. We expect to resolve potential conflicts of interest on a case-by-case basis, in the manner required by applicable law and customary business practices. We entered into an agreement with ABI in July 2001 under which we acknowledged and agreed that Dr. Soon-Shiong may devote time to the business of, receive remuneration from and present business opportunities to ABI and that ABI’s business and operations may compete with us. This agreement also requires that certain corporate opportunities that may become known to 24 Dr. Soon-Shiong be presented to either us or ABI depending upon the clinical status of the corporate opportunity. Generally, any corporate opportunity in late stage clinical development would be first available to us. This agreement does not ensure the continued services of Dr. Soon-Shiong. Resolutions of all potential conflicts of interest are subject to review and approval by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We still may be unable, however, to resolve some potential conflicts of interest with ABI and Dr. Soon-Shiong and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party because of their controlling interest in our company. Nothing restricts ABI from competing with us, and ABI is not obligated to engage in any future business transactions with us or license any products it may develop in the future to us. We depend heavily on the principal members of our management and research and development teams, the loss of whom could harm our business. We depend heavily on the principal members of our management and research and development teams, Each of the members of the executive management team is employed “at will”. None of these individuals currently has an employment agreement with either us or ABI. The loss of the services of any member of the executive management team may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development or business objectives. We depend on third parties to supply raw materials and other components and may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which will limit our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and harm our operating results. The manufacture of our products requires raw materials and other components that must meet stringent FDA requirements. Some of these raw materials and other components are available only from a limited number of sources. Additionally, our regulatory approvals for each particular product denote the raw materials and components, and the suppliers for such materials, we may use for that product. Obtaining approval to change, substitute or add a raw material or component, or the supplier of a raw material or component, can be time consuming and expensive, as testing and regulatory approval is necessary. In the past, we have experienced shortages in some of the raw materials and components we purchase. If our suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials on a timely basis or we encounter difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, the manufacture and sale of our products may be disrupted, and our business, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. Other companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. The manufacture, use and sale of new products with conflicting patent rights have been subject to substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. Infringement litigation is prevalent with respect to generic versions of products for which the patent covering the brand name product is expiring, particularly since many companies which market generic products focus their development efforts on products with expiring patents. A number of pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions may have filed patent applications or may have been granted patents that cover aspects of our products or our licensors’ products, product candidates or other technologies. Future or existing patents issued to third parties may contain claims that conflict with our products. We are subject to infringement claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, and third parties could assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our current products, products we may develop or products we may license. Litigation or interference proceedings could force us to: • stop or delay selling, manufacturing or using products that incorporate or are made using the challenged intellectual property 25 • pay damages • enter into licensing or royalty agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all Any litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of their outcome, would likely delay the regulatory approval process, be costly and require significant time and attention of key management and technical personnel. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and foreign countries could limit our ability to manufacture or sell our products. We rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, continuing technological innovation and, in some cases, patent protection to preserve our competitive position. Our patents and those for which we have or will license rights, including for Abraxane®, may be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, and the rights granted in those patents may not provide proprietary protection or competitive advantages to us. We and our licensors may not be able to develop patentable products. Even if patent claims are allowed, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned by or licensed to us. Third party patents could reduce the coverage of the patents license, or that may be license to or owned by us. If patents containing competitive or conflicting claims are issued to third parties, we may be prevented from commercializing the products covered by such patents, or may be required to obtain or develop alternate technology. In addition, other parties may duplicate, design around or independently develop similar or alternative technologies. We may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing or using our intellectual property. We generally control and limit access to, and the distribution of, our product documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect this proprietary information, however, unauthorized parties may obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Other parties may independently develop similar know-how or may even obtain access to our technologies. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary information to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems and costs in protecting their proprietary information in these foreign countries. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the courts have not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical patents. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. We may need to change our business practices to comply with changes to, or may be subject to charges under, the fraud and abuse laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, marketing and pricing laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. We may have to change our business practices, or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful due to changes in laws, regulations or rules or due to administrative or judicial findings, which could materially adversely affect our business. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. Product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after 26 regulatory approval. Historically both us and ABI have carried product liability insurance and we expect to continue such policies. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could exceed policy limits, divert management’s attention, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. We may become subject to federal false claims or other similar litigation brought by private individuals and the government. The Federal False Claims Act allows persons meeting specified requirements to bring suit alleging false or fraudulent Medicare or Medicaid claims and to share in any amounts paid to the government in fines or settlement. These suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a health care company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines and/or be excluded from Medicare and Medicaid programs. Federal false claims litigation can lead to civil monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment and/or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded health programs. Other alternate theories of liability may also be available to private parties seeking redress for such claims. A number of parties have brought claims against numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers, and we cannot be certain that such claims will not be brought against us, or if they are brought, that such claims might not be successful. Failure to comply with internal control attestation requirements could lead to loss of public confidence in the combined company’s financial statements and negatively impact its stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include, and the combined company following the consummation of the merger will continue to be required to include, in each Annual Report on Form 10-K, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to whether management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting is fairly stated in all material respects and separately report on whether it believes the combined company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. ABI, as a privately held company, has not been required to review or assess its internal control procedures. Following the merger, we will be required to modify and apply the disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls and related corporate governance policies to include the current operations of ABI. If we fail to timely complete the development of the combined company’s internal controls and management is unable to make this assessment, or if the independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to this assessment, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence in its internal control and the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the our stock price. Any future acquisitions and other material changes in our operations likely will require us to expand and possibly revise our disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls and related corporate governance policies. In addition, the new and changed laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws and regulations differ from the conduct intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities or varying interpretations of the law, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions, its reputation may be harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect its reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported 27 financial results or the way it conducts business. For example, on December 16, 2004, FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) requires that employee stock-based compensation be measured based on its fair-value on the grant date and treated as an expense that is reflected in the financial statements over the related service period. In April 2005, the SEC adopted an amendment to Rule 4-01(a) of Regulation S-X that delays the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) until the first interim or annual period of the registrant’s first fiscal year beginning on or after June 15, 2005. As a result, we will adopt SFAS 123(R) in the first quarter of 2006 using the modified retrospective approach. Under this approach we will adjust our prior financial statements to include the amounts that the company previously reported as pro forma disclosures under FAS 123’s original provisions. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) is expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for 2006 and subsequent periods. However, we do not believe the application of SFAS 123(R) will have a direct impact on our overall financial position or liquidity. Our earnings per share may decline as a result of the merger, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our pending merger with ABI is expected to be dilutive to our earnings per share over the next several years due to the number of our shares of common stock to be issued, the limited amount of current ABI revenue, incremental ABI expenses, ABI’s restricted stock unit plan, the amortization of the purchase price step-up and other acquisition-related changes. Our stock price has been volatile in response to market and other factors. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the following, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results from the expectations of securities analysts or investors; • revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisition, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • general technological, market or economic trends. • investor perception of our industry or our prospects; • insider selling or buying; • investors entering into short sale contracts; • regulatory developments affecting our industry; and • additions or departures of key personnel. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 