Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the Company and its business. In addition, other written or oral statements which constitute forward-looking statements may be made from time to time by or on behalf of Liquidmetal Technologies, Inc. Any statement in this report that is not a statement of historical fact is a forward-looking statement, and in some cases, words such as “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “anticipate,” “plans,” “seeks,” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the anticipated outcomes or result. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and 13 undue reliance should not be placed on these statements. Liquidmetal Technologies, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: We have incurred significant operating losses in the past and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. Our net loss for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, was $14.5 million, $7.1 million, and $14.9 million, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $149.0 million at December 31, 2006. Of this accumulated deficit, $44.5 million was attributable to losses generated by our discontinued equipment manufacturing and retail golf. We anticipate that we may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. Consequently, it is possible that we may never achieve positive earnings and, if we do achieve positive earnings, we may not be able to achieve them on a sustainable basis. We may require additional funding, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on the amount of cash generated by our operations. Our projections of cash flows from operations and, consequently, future cash needs are subject to substantial uncertainty. In addition, in our audit report on our financial statements for our fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, our auditors included a going-concern qualification indicating that our significant operating losses and working capital deficit cause substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. By issuing an opinion stating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, our auditors have indicated that they are uncertain as to whether we have the capability to continue our operations without additional funding. On January 3, 2007, we completed a private placement of $14.8 million in principal amount of 8% Convertible Subordinated Notes due January 2010 (the “January 2010 Notes”). The January 2010 Notes were issued for aggregate cash in the amount of $12.9 million and in payment of a total of $1.9 million in principal and accrued but unpaid interest under our previously issued 7% Senior Secured Convertible Notes Due August 2007 and our previously issued 8% Unsecured Subordinated Notes. We anticipate that the $12.9 million aggregate cash raised in the private placement will be sufficient to pursue our current operating plan only through the third quarter of 2007, and we will therefore require additional funding at or prior to that time. Our need for additional capital could also be accelerated to before the third quarter of 2007 because we are currently in breach of an obligation under the January 2010 Notes to satisfy certain previously issued debt within five days of the issue date of the January 2010 Notes. We are currently in discussions with the holders of the January 2010 Notes in an effort to negotiate a forbearance with respect to this breach, and the holders of the January 2010 Notes have not yet indicated a desire to declare a default under the January 2010 Notes. However, we cannot be certain that the holders of such notes will not declare a default and accelerate all amounts due thereunder. See “Risk Factors—We are currently in breach under convertible notes that we have issued, and the noteholders may therefore accelerate the amounts due under such notes.” As a result of the foregoing, we are actively seeking additional sources of capital and seeking to restructure and/or modify existing indebtedness. The amount of funding that we seek and the timing of such fundraising efforts will depend on the extent to which we are able to increase revenues through obtaining additional purchase orders for our products and/or the extent to which we can restructure or modify our debt. Because we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain adequate funding from debt, equity, or other traditional financing sources, we are also actively exploring several strategic financing options, including the possible sale of our manufacturing plant in South Korea (which would then be replaced with a smaller facility) and the possible sale of our Liquidmetal Coatings business. We cannot guarantee that adequate funds will be available when needed, and if we do not receive sufficient capital, we may be required to alter or reduce the scope of our operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, existing stockholders may be diluted. In addition, if shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock are issued in consideration of such funds at an effective per share price lower than the conversion and exercise prices of our currently outstanding convertible notes and warrants, then anti-dilution provisions in such convertible notes and warrants would be triggered, thus possibly causing even greater dilution to our then-existing stockholders if the notes are converted or the warrants are exercised. See “Risk Factors— Our convertible notes and warrants contain anti-dilution provisions that, if triggered, could cause substantial dilution to our then-existing stockholders.” We have a limited history of developing, manufacturing, and selling products made from our bulk amorphous alloys. We have marketed and sold industrial coatings to distributors in the coatings industry since 1987. Prior to the third quarter of 2002, our experience selling products made from bulk amorphous alloys has been limited to our discontinued retail golf business, which had a different marketing strategy than the one we are currently employing. Therefore, we have a relatively limited history of producing bulk amorphous alloy components and products on a mass-production basis. Furthermore, our ability to produce our products in desired quantities and at commercially reasonable prices is uncertain and is dependent on a variety of factors that are outside of our control, including the nature and design of the component, the customer’s specifications, and required delivery timelines. We rely on assumptions about the markets for our products and components that, if incorrect, may adversely affect our profitability. We have a relatively short history producing bulk amorphous alloy components on a mass-production basis. We have made assumptions regarding the market size for, and the manufacturing requirements of, our products and components 14 based in part on information we received from third parties and also from our limited history. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, we may not achieve anticipated revenue targets or profitability. If we cannot establish and maintain relationships with customers that incorporate our components and products into their finished goods, we will not be able to increase our revenue and commercialize our products. Our business is based upon the commercialization of a new and unique materials technology. Our ability to increase our revenues will depend on our ability to successfully maintain and establish relationships with customers who are willing to incorporate our proprietary alloys and technology into their finished products. However, we believe that the size of our company and the newness of our technology and manufacturing process may continue to make it challenging to maintain and establish such relationships. In addition, we rely and will continue to rely to a large extent on the manufacturing, research, and development capabilities, as well as the marketing and distribution capabilities, of our customers in order to commercialize our products. Our future growth and success will depend in large part on our ability to enter into these relationships and the subsequent success of these relationships. If our products are selected for use in a customer’s products, we still may not realize significant revenue from that customer if that customer’s products are not commercially successful. It may take significant time and cost for us to develop new customer relationships, which may delay our ability to generate additional revenue or achieve profitability. Our ability to generate revenue from new customers is generally affected by the amount of time it takes for us to, among other things: · identify a potential customer and introduce the customer to Liquidmetal alloys; · work with the customer to select and design the parts to be fabricated from Liquidmetal alloys; · make the molds and tooling to be used to produce the selected part; · make prototypes and samples for customer testing; · work with our customers to test and analyze prototypes and samples; and · with respect to some types of products, such as medical devices, to obtain regulatory approval. We currently do not have a sufficient history of selling products made from our bulk amorphous alloys to predict accurately the length of our average sales cycle. We believe that our average sales cycle from the time we deliver an active proposal to a customer until the time our customer fully integrates our bulk amorphous alloys into its product could be a significant period of time. Our history to date has demonstrated that the sales cycle could extend significantly longer than we anticipate. The time it takes to transition a customer from limited production to full-scale production runs will depend upon the nature of the processes and products into which our alloys are integrated. Moreover, we have found that customers often proceed very cautiously and slowly before incorporating a fundamentally new and unique type of material into their products. After we develop a customer relationship, it may take a significant amount of time for that customer to develop, manufacture, and sell finished goods that incorporate our components and products. Our experience has shown that our customers will perform numerous tests and extensively evaluate our components and products before incorporating them into their finished products. The time required for testing, evaluating, and designing our components and products into a customer’s products, and in some cases, obtaining regulatory approval, can take a significant amount of time, with an additional period of time before a customer commences volume production of products incorporating our components and products, if ever. Moreover, because of this lengthy development cycle, we may experience a delay between the time we accrue expenses for research and development and sales and marketing efforts and the time when we generate revenue, if any. We may incur substantial costs in an attempt to transition a customer from initial testing to prototype and from prototype to final product. If we are unable to minimize these transition costs, or to recover the costs of these transitions from our customers, our operating results will be adversely affected. 15 A limited number of our customers generate a significant portion of our revenue. For the near future, we expect that a significant portion of our revenue will be concentrated in a limited number of customers. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2006, revenues from one customer, Flextronics Manufacturing LTD, represented approximately 13% of total revenues from continuing operations and for the year ended December 31, 2005, revenues from one customer, Samsung, represented approximately 10% of total revenue from continuing operations, and for the year ended December 31, 2004, revenue from two customers represented approximately 62% of total revenue from continuing operations. Revenues from direct suppliers to SanDisk were approximately 22% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Revenues from direct suppliers to Samsung represented approximately 15%, 14% and 62% of total revenues from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Also, revenues from defense related contracts with the United States of America represented 7%, 9%, and 10%, for the year ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, and Growell Metal represented 0%, 0%, 12%, of revenue from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004. A reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders from one or more of these customers or the loss of one or more customer relationships could significantly reduce our revenue. Unless we establish long-term sales arrangements with these customers, they will have the ability to reduce or discontinue their purchases of our products on short notice. We expect to rely on our customers to market and sell finished goods that incorporate our products and components, a process over which we will have little control. Our future revenue growth and ultimate profitability will depend in part on the ability of our customers to successfully market and sell their finished goods that incorporate our products. We will have little control over our customers’ marketing and sales efforts. These marketing and sales efforts may be unsuccessful for various reasons, any of which could hinder our ability to increase revenue or achieve profitability. For example, our customers may not have or devote sufficient resources to develop, market, and sell their finished goods that incorporate our products. Because we typically will not have exclusive sales arrangements with our customers, they will not be precluded from exploring and adopting competing technologies. Also, products incorporating competing technologies may be more successful for reasons unrelated to the performance of our customers’ products or the marketing efforts of our customers. Our growth depends on our ability to identify, develop, and commercialize new applications for our technology. Our future growth and success will depend in part on our ability to identify, develop, and commercialize, either alone or in conjunction with our customers, new applications and uses for Liquidmetal alloys. If we are unable to identify and develop new applications, we may be unable to develop new products or generate additional revenue. Successful development of new applications for our products may require additional investment, including costs associated with research and development and the identification of new customers. In addition, difficulties in developing and achieving market acceptance of new products would harm our business. We may not be able to effectively compete with current suppliers of incumbent materials or producers of competing products. The future growth and success of our bulk amorphous alloy business will depend in part on our ability to establish and retain a technological advantage over other materials for our targeted applications. For many of our targeted applications, we will compete with manufacturers of similar products that use different materials. These different materials may include plastics, titanium alloys, or stainless steel, among others. For example, we have targeted the cellular phone component market as an application for bulk Liquidmetal alloys. In this market, we believe we will compete with other manufacturers of cellular phone components who use plastics or metal to construct their components. These other manufacturers may be able to manufacture their cellular phone components, particularly those made from plastics, at significantly less cost than our alloys. In other markets, we will compete directly with suppliers of the incumbent material. In addition, in each of our targeted markets, our success will depend in part on the ability of our customers to compete successfully in their respective markets. Thus, even if we are successful in replacing an incumbent material in a finished product, we will remain subject to the risk that our customer will not compete successfully in its own market. Our bulk amorphous alloy technology is still at an early stage of commercialization relative to many other materials. Our bulk amorphous alloy technology is a relatively new technology as compared to many other material technologies, such as plastics and widely-used high-performance crystalline alloys. Historically, the successful commercialization of a new materials technology has required the persistent improvement and refining of the technology over a sometimes lengthy period of time. Accordingly, we believe that our Company’s future success will be dependent on our ability to 16 continue expanding and improving our technology platform by, among other things, constantly refining and improving our manufacturing processes, optimizing our existing amorphous alloy compositions for various applications, and developing and improving new bulk amorphous alloy compositions. Our failure to further expand our technology base could limit our growth opportunities and hamper our commercialization efforts. Future advances in materials science could render Liquidmetal alloys obsolete. Academic institutions and business enterprises frequently engage in the research and testing of new materials, including alloys and plastics. Advances in materials science could lead to new materials that have a more favorable combination of performance, processing, and cost characteristics than our alloys. The future development of any such new materials could render our alloys obsolete and unmarketable or may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our growth depends upon our ability to retain and attract a sufficient number of qualified employees. Our business is based upon the commercialization of a new and unique materials technology. Our future growth and success will depend in part on our ability to retain key members of our management and scientific staff, who are familiar with this technology and the potential applications and markets for it. For example, as a result of their experience and knowledge of our alloy technology, we believe that our future growth and success will depend in large part on the efforts of Larry Buffington, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Atakan Peker, our Vice President of Technology. We do not have “key man” or similar insurance on any of these individuals. If we lose their services or the services of other key personnel, our financial results or business prospects may be harmed. Additionally, our future growth and success will depend in part on our ability to attract, train, and retain scientific engineering, manufacturing, sales, marketing, and management personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary to manage our operations effectively. Competition for experienced executives and scientists from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to hire or retain personnel on acceptable terms. In addition, many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, the employment of non-citizens may be restricted by applicable immigration laws. We may not be able to successfully identify, consummate, or integrate strategic partnerships. As a part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue strategic partnering transactions that provide access to new technologies, products, markets, and manufacturing capabilities. These transactions could include licensing agreements, joint ventures, or even business combinations. We believe that these transactions will be particularly important to our future growth and success due to the size and resources of our company and the newness of our technology. For example, we may determine that we may need to license our technology to a larger manufacturer in order to penetrate a particular market. In addition, we may pursue transactions that will give us access to new technologies that are useful in connection with the composition, processing, or application of Liquidmetal alloys. We may not be able to successfully identify any potential strategic partnerships. Even if we do identify one or more potentially beneficial strategic partnering, we may not be able to consummate these transactions on favorable terms or obtain the benefits we anticipate from such a transaction. We may encounter manufacturing problems or delays or may be unable to produce high-quality products at acceptable costs. We have relatively limited experience in manufacturing our products and may be required to manufacture a range of products in high volumes while ensuring high quality and consistency. Although we currently own and operate a 166,000 square feet and a 14,400 square feet manufacturing facilities in South Korea and China, respectively, we cannot guarantee that these facilities will be able to produce the intended products with production yields, quality controls, and production costs that provide us with acceptable margins or profitability or satisfy the requirements of our customers. We expect to derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales outside the United States, and problems associated with international business operations could affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We expect that we will continue to manufacture a substantial portion of our initial bulk Liquidmetal alloy products in our South Korean facility and derive a material portion of our revenues from customers in South Korea. For our fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, approximately 12%, 31%, and 54%, of our revenues came from customers located in South Korea, respectively. As a result, our manufacturing operations and financial results are subject to risks of political instability, including the risk of conflict between North Korea and South Korea and tensions between the United States and North Korea. In addition, we anticipate that the trend of foreign customers accounting for a significant portion of our total revenues may continue. Specifically, we expect to continue to derive a significant amount of revenue from sales to customers located in Asia. A downturn in the economies of Asian countries where our products will be sold, particularly South Korea’s economy, could materially harm our business. 17 Consequently, our operations and revenue likely will be subject to a number of risks associated with foreign commerce, including: · staffing and managing our manufacturing facility located in South Korea and post-processing facility located in China; · product or material transportation delays or disruption, including the availability and costs of air and other transportation between our South Korean and Chinese facilities and the United States; · political and economic instability, including instability involving China and North Korea that may disrupt our operations in China and South Korea; · potentially adverse tax consequences, which may reduce the profitability of products manufactured overseas or sold to overseas customers; · burden of complying with complex foreign laws and treaties, which could limit our ability to conduct our business as contemplated in South Korea and China; and · trade protection laws, policies, and measures and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment that could adversely affect the profitability of our South Korean and Chinese Operations, including loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs. Moreover, customers may sell finished goods that incorporate our components and products outside of the United States, which exposes us indirectly to additional foreign commerce risks. A substantial increase in the price or interruption in the supply of raw materials for our alloys could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Our proprietary alloy compositions are comprised of many elements, all of which are available commodity products. Although we believe that each of these raw materials is currently readily available in sufficient quantities from multiple sources on commercially acceptable terms, if the prices of these materials substantially increases or there is an interruption in the supply of these materials, such increase or interruption could adversely affect our profitability. For example, if the price of one of the elements included in our alloys substantially increases, we may not be able to pass the price increase on to our customers. Our business is subject to the potential adverse consequences of exchange rate fluctuations. We expect to conduct business in various foreign currencies and will be exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and such foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could specifically result in foreign exchange gains and losses. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operations cannot be accurately predicted. To the extent that the percentage of our non-U.S. dollar revenue derived from international sales increases in the future, our exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will increase further. Moreover, as a result of operating a manufacturing facility in South Korea, a substantial portion of our costs are and will continue to be denominated in the South Korean won. Adverse changes in the exchange rates of the South Korean won to the U.S. dollar will affect our costs of goods sold and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. The average foreign exchange rates for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 were 967, 1,028, and 1,151 South Korean Won to the U.S. dollar, respectively. The fluctuations in the exchange rates resulted in foreign currency translation gains of $0.3 million, $0.3 million, and $1.7 million, for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Our inability to protect our licenses, patents, and proprietary rights in the United States and foreign countries could harm our business because third parties may take advantage of our research and development efforts. We have an exclusive license from the California Institute of Technology, or Caltech, to several patents and patent applications relating to amorphous alloy technology, and we have obtained several of our own patents. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary right protection for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. Specifically, we must: · protect and enforce our owned and licensed patents and intellectual property; 18 · exploit our patented technology (owned and licensed); and · operate our business without infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our licensed technology comprises several issued United States patents covering the composition and method of manufacturing of the family of Liquidmetal alloys. We also hold several United States and corresponding foreign patents covering the manufacturing processes of Liquidmetal alloys and their use. The patents relating to our coatings have various expiration dates until 2022, and those relating to our bulk amorphous alloys have expiration dates between 2013 and 2025. Patents covering the sale of our ArmacoreTM coatings material expired during 2005. We continue to hold other coatings related patents; however, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights prior to the expiration of these patents, we may lose the advantage we have established as being the first to market bulk amorphous alloy products. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter significant problems and costs in protecting our proprietary rights in these foreign countries. Patent law is still evolving relative to the scope and enforceability of claims in the fields in which we operate. Our patent protection involves complex legal and technical questions. Our patents and those patents for which we have license rights may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented. We may be able to protect our proprietary rights from infringement by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. Litigation or other proceedings to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could require us to spend significant time and money and could otherwise adversely affect our business. Other companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing on valid, enforceable patents or proprietary rights of third parties and not breaching any licenses that may relate to our technology and products. Future patents issued to third parties may contain claims that conflict with our patents and that compete with our products and technologies, and third parties could assert infringement claims against us. Any litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of their outcome, may be costly and may require significant time and attention of our management and technical personnel. Litigation or interference proceedings could also force us to: · stop or delay using our technology; · stop or delay our customers from selling, manufacturing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · pay damages; or · enter into licensing or royalty agreements that may be unavailable on acceptable terms. Our level of indebtedness reduces our financial flexibility and could impede our ability to operate. As of December 31, 2006, our long-term debt was $14.7 million, including the current portion of such debt. Our long-term debt (including the current portion) includes the following: · $1.8 million in principal outstanding under our Korean subsidiary’s loan from Kookmin Bank of South Korea; · $2.1 million in principal outstanding under the 6% Senior Secured Notes due July 2007 (the “July 2007 Notes”) issued in our August 19, 2004 private exchange; and · $9.9 million in principal outstanding under the 7% Senior Secured Convertible Notes due August 2007 (the “August 2007 Notes”) issued in our August 2, 2005 private placement. · $4.6 million in principal outstanding under the 8% Unsecured Subordinated Notes issued in May 2006, September 2006, and December 2006 private placements. Under our loan from Kookmin Bank, we are obligated to make equal monthly payments of principal and interest of $0.11 million each through the period ending in February 2008. Under our July 2007 Notes and August 2007 Notes, we are required to make cash interest payments to the noteholders of $0.21 million per quarter until such notes are converted or 19 paid. Unless such notes are converted, the $2.1 million in aggregate principal amount under our July 2007 Notes will become due in July 2007, provided that the holders of such notes may demand payment thereunder at any time after July 2006. The $9.9 million in aggregate principal amount under our August 2007 Notes will become due in August 2007 while the $4.6 million in aggregate principal amount under the 8% Unsecured Subordinated Notes will become due in August 2007. As of December 31, 2006, our short-term debt was $2.7 million. Our short-term debt included the following: · $1.7 million in outstanding advances received under a factoring, loan, and security agreement executed in April 2005 with a financing company; and · $1.0 million in principal outstanding under unsecured subordinated promissory notes issued in a March 17, 2006 private placement. In January 2007, we completed a private placement of Convertible Subordinated Notes Due January 2010 in the aggregate principal amount of $14.8 million plus warrants to purchase approximately 4,774,049 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.93 per share. The notes issued in the private placement have an initial conversion price of $1.55 per share. In February 2007, we entered into conversion agreements with the holders of our August 2007 Notes totaling $1.9 million of principal providing for the conversion of such notes at a reduced conversion price of $1.25 per share. We issued 1,520,000 shares of common stock under the agreement. Our level of debt affects our operations in several important ways, including the following: · a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is likely to be dedicated to the payment of the principal of and interest on our indebtedness; · we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; · our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; and · we may be unable to obtain additional loans as a result of covenants and agreements with existing debt holders. In addition, our convertible notes and related documents contain restrictive covenants pursuant to which we generally may not (i) incur any indebtedness that would be senior to, or on the same rank as, the convertible notes with respect to payment or security, (ii) grant any liens or security interests in any of our assets which serve as collateral for the convertible notes (which collateral consists of substantially all of our assets), (iii) with certain exceptions, sell any of the assets that constitute collateral for the notes, (iv) become a guarantor for a third-party’s obligation (other than guarantees in the ordinary course of business not in excess of $500,000 in the aggregate), (v) acquire any shares or securities of any other person or entity in excess of an aggregate of $1.0 million over any rolling 12-month period, (vi) purchase or otherwise acquire any assets in excess of an aggregate of $3.0 million over any rolling 12-month period, (vii) engage in any transaction resulting in the issuance to any person of more than 40% of the equity of our company, or (viii) engage in any merger or sale of all or substantially all of our business assets. These covenants may curtail our ability to raise capital in the future or otherwise restrict our ability to enter into a transaction that we believe would be in the best interest of our stockholders. We are currently in breach under convertible notes that we have issued, and the noteholders may therefore accelerate the amounts due under such notes. Our January 2010 Notes were issued pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement, dated January 3, 2007, between our company and the purchasers of the January 2010 Notes (the “January Purchase Agreement”). Under the terms of the January Purchase Agreement, we agreed to satisfy, within 5 days after the closing of the private placement, through either repayment or conversion, approximately $15.5 million of our outstanding debt under previously issued promissory notes (including the August 2007 Notes). We originally agreed to this covenant based on assurances that a substantial number of holders of the August 2007 Notes would elect to convert their August 2007 Notes at a reduced conversion price following the private placement under a note conversion agreement proposed by us, but most of such holders have elected not to proceed with such conversion. Accordingly, in an effort to preserve funds, we have not yet repaid the indebtedness as required by the January Purchase Agreement and are therefore in breach of the January 2010 Notes. We are currently in discussions with the holders of the January 2010 Notes in an effort to negotiate a forbearance with respect to this breach, and the holders of the January 2010 have not yet indicated a desire to declare a default under the January 2010 Notes. However, if such holders declare a default , they may elect to accelerate the maturity of the January 2010 Notes if we do not cure the breach within ten days, and we would likely not be able to cure such breach at such time. Also, because we repaid $1.8 million in principal and interest in January and February 2007 under certain subordinated bridge notes without 20 first repaying the August 2007 Notes and July 2007 Notes, we may also be deemed to be in breach of the August 2007 Notes and July 2007 Notes, which case they would also have the right to accelerate such notes and foreclose on their security interest if the breach is not cured within thirty days of notice of default. The August 2007 Notes and July 2007 Notes are secured by substantially all of the assets of our company. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations, are creating uncertainty for public companies. As a result of these new rules and the size and limited resources of our company, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, and we may not be able to comply with some of these new rules. For example, we were not able to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for our 2005 and 2004 fiscal years. In addition, these new rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and this could make it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. The time and cost associated with complying with government regulations to which we could become subject could have a material adverse effect on our business. Some of the applications that we have identified or may identify in the future may be subject to government regulations. For example, any medical devices such as precision ophthalmic instruments and orthopedic devices made from our alloys likely will be subject to extensive government regulation in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. Any medical device manufacturers to whom we sell Liquidmetal alloy products may need to comply with FDA requirements, including premarket approval or clearance under Section 510(k) of the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act before marketing in the United States Liquidmetal alloy medical device products. These medical device manufacturers may be required to obtain similar approvals before marketing these medical devices in foreign countries. Any medical device manufacturers with which we jointly develop and sell medical device products may not provide significant assistance to us in obtaining required regulatory approvals. The process of obtaining and maintaining required FDA and foreign regulatory approvals could be lengthy, expensive, and uncertain. Additionally, regulatory agencies can delay or prevent product introductions. The failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in substantial fines, civil and criminal penalties, stop sale orders, loss or denial of approvals, recalls of products, and product seizures. In addition, the processing of beryllium, a minor constituent element of some of our alloys, can result in the release of beryllium into the workplace and the environment and in the creation of beryllium oxide as a by-product. Beryllium is classified as a hazardous air pollutant, a toxic substance, a hazardous substance, and a probable human carcinogen under environmental, safety, and health laws, and various acute and chronic health effects may result from exposure to beryllium. We are required to comply with certain regulatory requirements and to obtain a permit from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or other government agencies to process beryllium. Our failure to comply with present or future governmental regulations related to the processing of beryllium could result in suspension of manufacturing operations and substantial fines or criminal penalties. To the extent that our products have the potential for dual use, such as military and non-military applications, they may be subject to import and export restrictions of the U.S. government, as well as other countries. The process of obtaining any required U.S. or foreign licenses or approvals could be time-consuming, costly, and uncertain. Failure to comply with import and export regulatory requirements can lead to substantial fines, civil and criminal penalties, and the loss of government contracting and export privileges. 21 The existence of minority stockholders in our Liquidmetal Golf subsidiary creates potential for conflicts of interest. We directly own 79% of the outstanding capital stock of Liquidmetal Golf, our subsidiary that has the exclusive right to commercialize out technology in the golf market. The remaining 21% of Liquidmetal Golf stock is owned by approximately 95 stockholders of record. As a result, conflicts of interest may develop between us and the minority stockholders of Liquidmetal Golf. To the extent that our officers and directors are also officers or directors of Liquidmetal Golf, matters may arise that place the fiduciary duties of these individuals in conflicting positions. John Kang, our Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, is also director of Liquidmetal Golf. In addition, James Kang, Founder and Director, is also a director of Liquidmetal Golf. Our stock price has experienced volatility and may continue to experience volatility. During 2006, the highest bid price for our common stock was $2.34 per share, while the lowest bid price during that period was $0.87 per share. The trading price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate widely due to: · quarter-to-quarter variations in results of operations; · loss of a major customer; · announcements of technological innovations by us or our potential competitors; · changes in, or our failure to meet, the expectations of securities analysts; · new products offered by us or our competitors; · announcements of strategic relationships or strategic partnerships; or · other events or factors that may be beyond our control. In addition, the securities markets in general have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in the past. The trading prices of securities of many companies at our stage of growth have fluctuated broadly, often for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These general market and industry factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. If our stock price is volatile, we could face securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and could cause our stock price to fall. Our convertible notes and warrants contain anti-dilution provisions that, if triggered, could cause substantial dilution to our then-existing stockholders. The convertible notes and warrants issued in our January 2007 private placement contain “full-ratchet” anti-dilution rights. As a result of these anti-dilution rights, under our January 2010 Notes, if we issue or grant in the future any rights to purchase any of our common stock, or other security convertible into our common stock, for an effective per share price less than the conversion price then in effect, the conversion price of all unconverted January 2010 Notes will be decreased to equal such lower price. With regard to the warrants issued in connection with the January 2010 Notes, if we, in the future, issue or grant any rights to purchase any of our common stock, or other security convertible into our common stock, for a per share price less than the conversion price of the January 2010 Notes then in effect, the exercise price of the warrants will be reduced to equal such lower price and the number of shares of our common stock for which the warrants may be exercised will be increased so that the total aggregate exercise price remains constant. The foregoing adjustments to the conversion price of the notes and the exercise price of the warrants will not apply to certain exempt issuances, including issuances pursuant to employee stock option plans and strategic transactions. In addition to the above-described full-ratchet anti-dilution rights, certain other notes and warrants previously issued by us contain “weighted-average” anti-dilution provisions. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding $2.1 million in aggregate principal amount of 6% Senior Convertible Notes Due July 2007 with a conversion price of $1.00 per share, $9.9 million in aggregate principal amount of 7% Senior Convertible Notes Due August 2007 with a conversion price of $2.00 per share, warrants to purchase 973,064 shares at an exercise price of $2.58 per share, and warrants to purchase 3,902,714 shares at an exercise price of $2.00 per share, each of which notes and warrants contain weighted-average anti-dilution provisions. Under these provisions, if we issue shares in the future for consideration below the conversion or exercise prices then in effect, then (with certain exceptions, including the issuance of stock options) the conversion price for our convertible notes would automatically be reduced (allowing the holders of the notes to receive additional shares of 22 common stock upon conversion) and the exercise price of the warrants would automatically be reduced (with a corresponding increase in the number of shares issuable pursuant to such warrants). It is also possible that a future triggering of the full-ratchet anti-dilution rights in our January 2010 Notes could result in a corresponding triggering of the above-described weighted-average anti-dilution provisions in the other notes and warrants. If our available funds and cash generated from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements in the future, then we may need to raise substantial additional funds in the future to support our working capital requirements and for other purposes. If shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock are issued in consideration of such funds at an effective per share price lower than the conversion and exercise prices of our convertible notes and warrants, then these anti-dilution provisions would be triggered, thus possibly causing substantial dilution to our then-existing stockholders if the notes are converted or the warrants are exercised. Further, subsequent sales of the shares in the public market could depress the market price of our stock by creating an excess in supply of shares for sale. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock to date. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our businesses, and upon the completion of this offering, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debts may preclude us from paying dividends on our stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of applicable corporate law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Because of these provisions, you might not be able to receive a premium on your investment. These provisions: · authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and prevent a takeover attempt; · limit stockholders’ ability to call a special meeting of our stockholders; · provide for a classified board of directors; and · establish advance notice requirements to nominate directors for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. The provisions described above could delay or make more difficult transactions involving a change in control of us or our management. An ongoing investigation by the Department of Justice could have a material adverse impact on our company. In August 2006, we received a federal grand jury subpoena for the production of documents related to the period from January 1, 1999 though the present. The documents being sought include accounting records, documents relating to our relationship with Growell Metal of Korea, and documents and records relating to transactions in company stock by officers and directors. The subpoena was issued in connection with a grand jury investigation being conducted by the U.S. Department of Justice, Criminal0020Division, in the Middle District of Florida concerning alleged accounting improprieties involving our company, among other things. We have been, and intend to continue to be, fully cooperative with the authorities in connection with the Department of Justice’s subpoena and investigation. However, in the event that current or former members of our senior management were to be implicated in any wrongdoing, it could have a material adverse impact on our capital resources and business focus. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 