Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are some important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those referred to or implied in any forward-looking statement. These are in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company’s other filings with the SEC. A prolonging of the economic downturn or the return of negative developments in the financial services industry could negatively impact our operations. The global and U.S. economic downturn has resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the possibility of a slow recovery or a fall back into recession. The Federal Reserve, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate, the purchase of mortgage- backed securities and the purchase of the Treasury securities. If the Federal Reserve increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. A prolonging of the economic downturn or the return of negative developments in the financial services industry could negatively impact our operations by causing an increase in our provision for loan losses and a deterioration of our loan portfolio. Such a downturn may also ad versely affect our ability to originate or sell loans. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact our financial performance. 13 Table of Contents A prolonging or worsening of the downturn affecting the economy and/or the real estate market in our primary market area would adversely affect our loan portfolio and our growth potential. Much of the Company’s lending is in northern and central New Jersey. As a result of this geographic concentration, a further continued significant broad-based deterioration in economic conditions in the New Jersey metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the Company’s loan portfolio, results of operations and future growth potential. A prolonged decline in economic conditions in our market area could restrict borrowers’ ability to pay outstanding principal and interest on loans when due, and consequently, adversely affect the cash flows and results of operation of the Company’s business. The Company’s loan portfolio is largely secured by real estate collateral located in the State of New Jersey. Conditions in the real estate markets in which the collateral for the Company’s loans are located strongly influence the level of the Company’s non-performing loans and results of operations. A continued decline in the New Jersey real estate markets could adversely affect the Company’s loan portfolio. Decreases in local real estate values would adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. Adverse changes in the economy also may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. The Company faces significant competition. The Company faces significant competition from many other banks, savings institutions and other financial institutions which have branch offices or otherwise operate in the Company’s market area. Non-bank financial institutions, such as securities brokerage firms, insurance companies and money market funds, engage in activities which compete directly with traditional bank business, which has also led to greater competition. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources than the Company, including larger capital bases that allow them to attract customers seeking larger loans than the Company is able to accommodate and the ability to aggressively advertise their products and to allocate considerable resources to locations and products perceived as profitable. There can be no assurance that the Company and t he Bank will be able to successfully compete with these entities in the future. The Company is subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s earnings are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s abili ty to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the spread between the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings and the interest rates received on loans and other investments narrows, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk). Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents The Company is subject to risks associated with speculative construction lending. The risks associated with speculative construction lending include the borrower’s inability to complete the construction process on time and within budget, the sale of the project within projected absorption periods, the economic risks associated with real estate collateral, and the potential of a rising interest rate environment. Such loans may include financing the development and/or construction of residential subdivisions. This activity may involve financing land purchase, infrastructure development (i.e. roads, utilities, etc.), as well as construction of residences or multi-family dwellings for subsequent sale by developer/builder. Because the sale of developed properties is integral to the success of developer business, loan repayment may be especially subject to the volatility of real estate market values. Management has es tablished underwriting and monitoring criteria to minimize the inherent risks of speculative commercial real estate construction lending. Further, management concentrates lending efforts with developers demonstrating successful performance on marketable projects within the Bank’s lending areas. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loan and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our loan portfolio and our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs or reclassify loans. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs or loan reclassifications as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state government regulation impacts the Company’s operations. The operations of the Company and the Bank are heavily regulated and will be affected by present and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. In particular, the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such changes may have on the future business and earnings prospects of the Company.< /font> The Company and the Bank are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Compliance with the rules and regulations of these agencies may be costly and may limit growth and restrict certain activities, including payment of dividends, investments, loans and interest rate charges, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of offices. The Bank is also subject to capitalization guidelines set forth in federal legislation and regulations. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the impact of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, the cost of compliance could adversely affect the Company’s result of operations. Legislative and regulatory reforms may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, or stock price. The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision will be transferred to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks. Savings and loan holding companies will be regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. Also included is the creation of a new federal agency to administer consumer and fair lending laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered depository institutions will be reduced as well. We expect that many of the requirements c alled for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time, and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on financial institutions’ operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes in order to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. 15 Table of Contents In addition, international banking industry regulators have largely agreed upon significant changes in the regulation of capital required to be held by banks and their holding companies to support their businesses. The new international rules, known as Basel III, generally increase the capital required to be held and narrow the types of instruments which will qualify as providing appropriate capital and impose a new liquidity measurement. The Basel III requirements are complex and will be phased in over many years. The Basel III rules do not apply to U.S. banks or holding companies automatically. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act requires U.S. regulators to reform the system under which the safety and soundness of banks and other financial institutions, individually and systemically, are regulated. That reform effort will include the regulation of capital and liquidity. It is not known whether or to what extent the U.S. regulators will incorporate elements of Basel III into the reformed U.S. regulatory system, but it is expected that the U.S. reforms will include an increase in capital requirements, a narrowing of what qualifies as appropriate capital, and impose a new liquidity measurement. One likely effect of a significant tightening of U.S. capital requirements would be to increase our cost of capital, among other things. Any permanent significant increase in our cost of capital could have significant adverse impacts on the profitability of many of our products, the types of products we could offer profitably, our overall profitability, and our overall growth opportunities, among other things. Although most financial institutions would be affected, these business impacts could be felt unevenly, depending upon the business and product mix of each institution. Other potential effects could include less ability to repurchase our common shares, higher dilution of common shareholders, and a higher risk that we might fall below regulatory capital thresholds in an adverse economic cycle. The price of our common stock may fluctuate. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market constantly changes and recently, given the uncertainty in the financial markets, has fluctuated widely. From the beginning of fiscal year 2009 through the end of fiscal year 2010, our stock price fluctuated between a high of $9.76 per share and a low of $3.67 per share. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices, and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · events negatively impacting the financial services industry which result in a general decline in the market valuation of our common stock; · announcements of material developments affecting our operations or our dividend policy; · future sales of our equity securities; 16 Table of Contents · new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and · general domestic economic and market conditions. In addition, recently the stock market generally has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. The Company is subject to liquidity risk. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they become due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. If we become unable to obtain funds when needed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and in turn, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Future growth, operating results or regulatory requirements may require us to raise additional capital but that capital may not be available. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To the extent our future operating results erode capital or we elect to expand through loan growth or acquisition, we may be required to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and business. These actions could negatively impact our ability to operate or further expand our operations and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted final rules to implement changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to the FDIC assessment rules. In particular, the definition of an institution's deposit insurance assessment base is being changed from total deposits to total assets less tangible equity. In addition, the FDIC is revising the deposit insurance assessment rates down. The changes will become effective April 1, 2011. The new initial base assessment rates range from 5 to 9 basis points for Risk Category I banks to 35 basis points for Risk Category IV banks. Risk Category II and III banks will have an initial base assessment rate of 14 or 23 basis points, respectively. The Company expects that the new rates and assessment base will further reduce our current FDIC insurance assessments. However, if the risk category of the Bank changes adversely, our FDIC insurance premiums could increase. 17 Table of Contents Recent insured depository institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased the loss provisions of the FDIC, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund to historical lows. The FDIC recently increased the designated reserve ratio from 1.25 to 2.00. In addition, the deposit insurance limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage generally has increased to $250,000, which may result in even larger losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund. The FDIC may further increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule in order to manage the Deposit Insurance Fund to prescribed statutory target levels. An increase in the risk category for the Bank or in the assessment rates could have an adverse effect on the Bank's earnings. The FDIC may terminate deposit insurance if it determines the institution involved has engaged in or is engaging in unsafe or unsound banking practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition, or has violated applicable laws, regulations or orders. Future offerings of debt or other securities may adversely affect the market price of our stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other prote ctions against dilution. The Company may lose lower-cost funding sources. Checking, savings, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, the Company could lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing its funding costs and reducing the Company’s net interest income and net income. There may be changes in accounting policies or accounting standards. The Company’s accounting policies are fundamental to understanding its financial results and condition. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of the Company’s assets or liabilities and financial results. The Company identified its accounting policies regarding the allowance for loan losses, security impairment, goodwill and other intangible assets, and income taxes to be critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Under each of these policies, it is possible that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions, using different assumptions, or as new information becomes available. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the form and content of the Company’s external financial statements. Recently, FASB has proposed new accounting standards related to fair value accounting and accounting for leases that could materially change the Company’s financial statements in the future. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and the Company’s outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in c urrent interpretations may be beyond the Company’s control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how the Company reports its financial results and condition. In certain cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently (also retroactively) which may result in the Company restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. The Company encounters continuous technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents The Company is subject to operational risk. The Company faces the risk that the design of its controls and procedures, including those to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a mate rial adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The Company is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is the Company) and to the risk that the Company’s (or its vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The Company’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, the Company faces increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals. The Company’s business operations could be adversely affected if it were unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees. There may be claims and litigation. From time to time as part of the Company’s normal course of business, customers make claims and take legal action against the Company based on actions or inactions of the Company. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services. This may also impact customer demand for the Company’s products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, acts of terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. A significant portion of our primary markets are located near coastal waters which could generate naturally occurring severe weather, or in response to climate change, that could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Additionally, surrounding areas, including New Jersey, may be central targets for potential acts of terrorism against the United States. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although we have established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in tur n, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 19 Table of Contents 