Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is dependent on customers’ capital spending on broadband communication systems, and reductions by customers in capital spending would adversely affect our business. Our performance is dependent on customers’ capital spending for constructing, rebuilding, maintaining or upgrading broadband communications systems. Capital spending in the telecommunications industry is cyclical. A variety of factors affect the amount of capital spending, and, therefore, our sales and profits, including: • General economic conditions; • Availability and cost of capital; • Governmental regulation; • Demands for network services; • Competition from other providers of broadband and high speed services; • Acceptance of new services offered by our customers; and • Real or perceived trends or uncertainties in these factors. Several of our customers have accumulated significant levels of debt. In addition, the bankruptcy filing of Adelphia in June 2002 heightened concerns in the financial markets about the viability of the domestic cable industry. These historic events, coupled with the current uncertainty and volatility in the capital markets, has affected the market values of domestic cable operators and may restrict their access to capital in the future. Even if the financial health of our customers remains intact, we cannot assure you that these customers will be in a position to purchase new equipment at levels we have seen in the past. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive, and competitive pressures may adversely affect our results of operations. The markets for broadband communication systems are extremely competitive and dynamic, requiring the companies that compete in these markets to react quickly and capitalize on change. This will require us to retain skilled and experienced personnel as well as to deploy substantial resources toward meeting the ever-changing demands of the industry. We compete with national and international manufacturers, distributors and wholesalers including many companies larger than ARRIS. Our major competitors include: • Big Band Networks; • Cisco Systems, Inc.; • Motorola, Inc.; and • TVC Communications, Inc. The rapid technological changes occurring in the broadband markets may lead to the entry of new competitors, including those with substantially greater resources than our own. Because the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid growth and, in some cases, low barriers to entry, smaller niche market companies and start-up ventures also may become principal competitors in the future. Actions by existing competitors and the entry of new competitors may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The broadband communications industry is further characterized by rapid technological change. In the future, technological advances could lead to the obsolescence of some of our current products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, many of our larger competitors are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in these markets. They often have broader product lines and market focus and therefore will not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. In addition, several of our competitors have been in operation longer than we have been, and therefore they have more established relationships with domestic and foreign broadband service users. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and competition may negatively impact our business. 13 Table of Contents Consolidations in the telecommunications industry could result in delays or reductions in purchases of products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The telecommunications industry has experienced the consolidation of many industry participants, and this trend may continue. For instance, in November 2005, Cox Communications announced a definitive agreement to sell some of its cable television systems to Cebridge Connections; this transaction was completed in May 2006. Also, in April 2005, Adelphia announced that its assets were going to be acquired by Comcast and Time Warner; this transaction was completed in July 2006. When consolidations occur, it is possible that the acquirer will not continue using the same suppliers, thereby possibly resulting in an immediate or future elimination of sales opportunities for us or our competitors, depending upon who had the business initially. Consolidations also could result in delays in purchasing decisions by the merged businesses. The purchasing decisions of the merged companies could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mergers among the supplier base also have increased, and this trend may continue. For example, in February 2006, Cisco Systems, Inc. completed its acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. Larger combined companies with pooled capital resources may be able to provide solution alternatives with which we would be put at a disadvantage to compete. The larger breadth of product offerings by these consolidated suppliers could result in customers electing to trim their supplier base for the advantages of one-stop shopping solutions for all of their product needs. Consolidation of the supplier base could have a material adverse effect on our business. Acquisitions, including our proposed acquisition of TANDBERG Television, can involve significant risks. We routinely consider acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, including acquisitions that could be significant relative to the size of our business, such as our proposed acquisition of TANDBERG Television. There are a number of risks attendant to any acquisition, including the possibility that we will overvalue the assets to be purchased, that any acquired business may have liabilities of which we are unaware or which we are not able to assess at the time of the acquisition, that we will not be able to successfully integrate and retain a significant number of new employees at a single time, our ability to combine and integrate accounting and other systems, and our ability to capitalize on the expected technological and customer opportunities. In addition, we might incur substantial additional indebtedness in order to finance an acquisition, which could require additional payments in the future, and we might issue common stock or other securities to pay for an acquisition, in which event the acquisition may ultimately prove to be dilutive to our current stockholders. As a result, the impact of any acquisition, including the proposed TANDBERG Television acquisition, on our future performance may not be as favorable as expected and actually may be adverse. Further, no assurances can be provided that we will complete any such acquisition. Our proposed acquisition of TANDBERG Television involves several accounting risks. The TANDBERG Television acquisition also involves accounting risks. TANDBERG Television provides financial information in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). We report under U.S. GAAP. Under U.S. securities laws, we will be required to reconcile TANDBERG’s historical financial information to U.S. GAAP. We are also required to file that information, together with pro forma information, with the SEC within seventy-five days following the completion of the acquisition. That reconciliation will be complicated and will require significant internal and external resources. If it is not completed in the required time, we will be in default in our filing obligations with the SEC, and under the indenture governing our outstanding convertible notes, will be in default after 60 days from notice by the Trustee. Such a default under the convertible notes, if appropriate filings are not made within an additional 90 days, will result in interest accruing under the notes at an additional .50% per annum until cured. In addition we will have to convert TANDBERG Television’s IFRS based systems to U.S. GAAP systems and modify some of their practices to conform with U.S. accounting practices. Until this is complete we may not be able to produce complete U.S. GAAP financial information. In addition, following completion of the acquisition, when reported under U.S. GAAP systems, TANDBERG Television’s future results included as part of our consolidated results may not be as attractive as, or consistent with the IFRS results previously disclosed by TANDBERG Television. 14 Table of Contents In addition, because of the differences between IFRS and GAAP, including, for example, differences in software revenue recognition, TANDBERG Television’s historical financial results, when reconciled to GAAP, may show a material difference for the periods presented as compared to IFRS. As a result, with respect to both historical and future financial results immediately following the completion of the acquisition, we may not be able to immediately recognize all of the revenues that were or would be recognized by TANDBERG Television under IFRS, which may have an adverse effect on our financial results and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In addition to the proposed TANDBERG Television acquisition, we continue to consider other acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, including acquisitions that could be significant relative to the size of our business. There are a number of risks attendant to any acquisition, including the possibility that we will overvalue the assets to be purchased, that any acquired business may have liabilities of which we are unaware or which we are not able to assess at the time of the acquisition, that we will not be able to successfully integrate the acquired business or assets, and that we will not be able to produce the expected level of profitability from the acquired business or assets. In addition, we might incur additional indebtedness in order to finance an acquisition, which could require additional payments in the future, and we might issue common stock or other securities to pay for an acquisition, in which event the acquisition may ultimately prove to be dilutive to our current stockholders. As a result, the impact of any acquisition on our future performance may not be as favorable as expected and actually may be adverse. Following the TANDBERG Television acquisition we will have substantial indebtedness. We will incur substantial indebtedness in order to finance the pending acquisition of TANDBERG Television ASA, which will require substantial payments in the future. Any unexpected changes in the combined business may reduce our ability to pay down the debt in a timely manner or access the capital markets for further refinancing. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to support the debt structure in the future. Additionally, the credit agreement pursuant to which we will borrow most of the indebtedness will contain substantial affirmative and negative covenants (including restrictions on indebtedness, restrictions on dividends and repurchases of securities, restrictions on acquisitions and dispositions of assets, limitations on leverage, minimum interest coverage ratios, limitations on capital expenditures), the violation of which would result in a default and could result in the acceleration of the indebtedness and that will restrict the freedom with which we can operate our business. We will also issue common stock or other securities to pay for this acquisition, in which event the acquisition may ultimately prove to be dilutive to our current shareholders. Our business has primarily come from several key customers. The loss of one of these customers or a significant reduction in sales to one of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our four largest customers (including their affiliates, as applicable) are Comcast, Cox Communications, Liberty Media International, and Time Warner Cable. For the year ended December 31, 2006, sales to Comcast accounted for approximately 38.6%, sales to Cox Communications accounted for approximately 9.9%, sales to Liberty Media International accounted for approximately 10.0%, and sales to Time Warner Cable accounted for approximately 9.1% of our total revenue. The loss of any of these customers, or one of our other large customers, or a significant reduction in the products or services provided to any of them would have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, more so than historically, in recent years our customers have submitted their purchase orders less evenly over the course of each quarter and year and with shorter lead times. This has made it more difficult for us to forecast sales and plan accordingly. The broadband products that we develop and sell are subject to technological change and a trend towards open standards, which may impact our future sales and margins. The broadband products we sell are subject to continuous technological evolution. Further, the cable industry has and will continue to demand a move towards open standards. The move towards open standards is expected to increase the number of MSOs that will offer new services, in particular, telephony. This trend also is expected to 15 Table of Contents increase the number of competitors and drive capital costs per subscriber deployed down. These factors may adversely impact both our future revenues and margins. Products currently under development may fail to realize anticipated benefits. Rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product life cycles characterize the markets for our products. The technology applications that we currently are developing may not ultimately be successful. Even if the products in development are successfully brought to market, they may not be widely used or we may not be able to successfully capitalize on their technology. To compete successfully, we must quickly design, develop, manufacture and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. However, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce these products if our products: • Are not cost-effective; • Are not brought to market in a timely manner; • Fail to achieve market acceptance; or • Fail to meet industry certification standards. Furthermore, our competitors may develop similar or alternative technologies that, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our strategic alliances are based on business relationships that have not been the subject of written agreements expressly providing for the alliance to continue for a significant period of time. The loss of a strategic relationship could have a material adverse effect on the progress of new products under development with that third party. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all facets of our operations. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel, which could impact our ability to maintain and grow our operations. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively. In the past, competitors and others have attempted to recruit our employees and in the future, their attempts may continue. The loss of services of any key personnel, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and other technical professionals, could negatively affect our business. We are substantially dependent on contract manufacturers, and an inability to obtain adequate and timely delivery of supplies could adversely affect our business. Many components, subassemblies and modules necessary for the manufacture or integration of our products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on sole or limited suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our reliance on subcontractors involves several risks including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, subassemblies or modules and reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components, subassemblies or modules. Historically, we have not generally maintained long-term agreements with any of our suppliers or subcontractors. An inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply could affect our ability to ship products on a timely basis. Any inability to reliably ship our products on time could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business. Our international operations may be adversely affected by any decline in the demand for broadband systems designs and equipment in international markets. Sales of broadband communications equipment into international markets are an important part of our business. The entire line of our products is marketed and made available to existing and potential international customers. In addition, United States broadband system designs and equipment are increasingly being employed in international markets, where market penetration is relatively lower than in the United States. While international 16 Table of Contents operations are expected to comprise an integral part of our future business, international markets may no longer continue to develop at the current rate, or at all. We may fail to receive additional contracts to supply equipment in these markets. Our international operations may be adversely affected by changes in the foreign laws in the countries in which our manufacturers and assemblers have plants. A significant portion of our products are manufactured or assembled in China, Ireland, Mexico, the Philippines, and other countries outside of the United States. The governments of the foreign countries in which our products are manufactured may pass laws that impair our operations, such as laws that impose exorbitant tax obligations or nationalize these manufacturing facilities. We face risks relating to currency fluctuations and currency exchange. We may encounter difficulties in converting our earnings from international operations to U.S. dollars for use in the United States. These obstacles may include problems moving funds out of the countries in which the funds were earned and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries where the usual accounts receivable payment cycle is longer. We are exposed to various market risk factors such as fluctuating interest rates and changes in foreign currency rates. These risk factors can impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We manage these risks through regular operating and financing activities and periodically use derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and option contracts. There can be no assurance that our risk management strategies will be effective. Our profitability has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which could adversely affect the price of our stock. We have experienced several years with significant operating losses. Although we have been profitable in the last eight quarters, we may not be profitable or meet the level of expectations of the investment community in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our stock price. In addition, our operating results may be adversely affected by the timing of sales or a shift in our product mix. We may face higher costs associated with protecting our intellectual property. Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology, product development, technological expertise and distribution channels. We cannot predict whether we can protect our technology or whether competitors can develop similar technology independently. We have received and may continue to receive from third parties, including some of our competitors, notices claiming that we have infringed upon third-party patents or other proprietary rights. We are currently a party in proceedings in federal court in California and in Texas, in which one of our customers has been sued for patent infringement and has sued us and several other suppliers for indemnification, and we may become involved in similar litigation involving other customers. Any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert the time, attention and resources of our management, delay our product shipments, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. If a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license or develop non-infringing technology, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the payment of any necessary licensing fees or indemnification costs associated with a patent infringement claim could also materially adversely affect our operating results. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to continue our policy of retaining earnings to finance the growth of our business. In addition, the payment of dividends in certain circumstances may be prohibited by the terms of our current and future indebtedness. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. 17 Table of Contents We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. We have a shareholder rights plan (commonly known as a “poison pill”). This plan is not intended to prevent a takeover, but is intended to protect and maximize the value of stockholders’ interests. This plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or may delay that process. We have the ability to issue preferred shares without stockholder approval. Our common shares may be subordinate to classes of preferred shares issued in the future in the payment of dividends and other distributions made with respect to common shares, including distributions upon liquidation or dissolution. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation permits our board of directors to issue preferred shares without first obtaining stockholder approval. If we issued preferred shares, these additional securities may have dividend or liquidation preferences senior to the common shares. If we issue convertible preferred shares, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders’ interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Comments As of December 31, 2006 we have no unresolved comments. 