Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are some important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those referred to or implied in any forward-looking statement. These are in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company’s other filings with the SEC. 11 Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and the U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and through early 2009 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing throughout 2009. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, amongst other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. Decreases in local real estate values would adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. Adverse changes in the economy also may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. The Company faces significant competition. The Company faces significant competition from many other banks, savings institutions and other financial institutions which have branch offices or otherwise operate in the Company’s market area. Non-bank financial institutions, such as securities brokerage firms, insurance companies and money market funds, engage in activities which compete directly with traditional bank business, which has also led to greater competition. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources than the Company, including larger capital bases that allow them to attract customers seeking larger loans than the Company is able to accommodate and the ability to aggressively advertise their products. There can be no assurance that the Company and the Bank will be able to successfully compete with these entities in the future. The Company is subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s earnings are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the spread between the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings and the interest rates received on loans and other investments narrows, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to risks associated with speculative construction lending. The risks associated with speculative construction lending include the borrower’s inability to complete the construction process on time and within budget, the sale of the project within projected absorption periods, the economic risks associated with real estate collateral, and the potential of a rising interest rate environment. Such loans may include financing the development and/or construction of residential subdivisions. This activity may involve financing land purchase, infrastructure development (i.e. roads, utilities, etc.), as well as construction of residences or multi-family dwellings for subsequent sale by developer/builder. Because the sale of developed properties is integral to the success of developer business, loan repayment may be especially subject to the volatility of real estate market values. Management has established underwriting and monitoring criteria to minimize the inherent risks of speculative commercial real estate construction lending. Further, management concentrates lending efforts with developers demonstrating successful performance on marketable projects within the Bank’s lending areas. 12 Federal and state government regulation impacts the Company’s operations. The operations of the Company and the Bank are heavily regulated and will be affected by present and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. In particular, the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such changes may have on the future business and earnings prospects of the Company. The Company and the Bank are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Compliance with the rules and regulations of these agencies may be costly and may limit growth and restrict certain activities, including payment of dividends, investments, loans and interest rate charges, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of offices. The Bank is also subject to capitalization guidelines set forth in federal legislation. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the impact of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, the cost of compliance could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate profitably. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have significant investments in mortgage-backed securities and securities of this kind may be subject to deterioration in value in certain market conditions. The Company has a significant investment in collateralized mortgage obligations and trust preferred securities. At December 31, 2008, the Company held collateralized mortgage obligations in the available for sale and held to maturity portfolios with aggregate fair values of $6,777,632 and $8,767,537, respectively. These securities had a net unrealized loss of $196,418. The Company also held trust preferred securities in the available for sale and held to maturity portfolios with aggregate fair values of $1,281,806 and $346,988, respectively, and a net unrealized loss of $1,808,335 at December 31, 2008. Several financial institutions have reported significant write-downs of the value of mortgage-related and trust preferred securities. Certain of these types of securities may also not be marketable except at significant discounts. While management of the Company is unaware of any other-than-temporarily impairment in the Company’s portfolio of these securities, market, entity or industry conditions could further deteriorate and result in the recognition of future impairment losses related to these securities. 13 We had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, and we cannot assure that we have developed an effective remediation plan.. We identified deficiencies constituting material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 and have subsequently developed and implemented a plan to remediate such deficiencies. We believe that such plan has adequately addressed these deficiencies, but there can be no assurance that we have discovered all of the deficiencies that may exist in our internal control over financial reporting. The price of our common stock may fluctuate. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market constantly changes and recently, given the uncertainty in the financial markets, has fluctuated widely. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Holders of our common stock will be subject to the risk of volatility and changes in prices. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · events negatively impacting the financial services industry which result in a general decline in the market valuation of our common stock; · announcements of material developments affecting our operations or our dividend policy; · future sales of our equity securities; · new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and · general domestic economic and market conditions. In addition, recently the stock market generally has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. The Company is subject to liquidity risk. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they become due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. 14 Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as evidenced by turmoil faced by banking organizations in 2008 in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. Our agreements with the Treasury impose restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to pay cash dividends and, repurchase our common stock or trust preferred securities. On December 23, 2008, we issued Preferred Stock Series B and a warrant to purchase our common stock to the Treasury as part of its TARP CPP. Prior to December 23, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the Preferred Stock Series B or the Treasury has transferred all of the Preferred Stock Series B to a third party, the consent of the Treasury will be required for us to, among other things, pay cash dividends on our common stock or repurchase our common stock or other trust preferred securities (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock in connection with an employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice). Our shares of Preferred Stock Series B impact net income available to our common stockholders and our earnings per share. As long as there are shares of Preferred Stock Series B outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Preferred Stock Series B have been paid in full. The dividends declared on our Preferred Stock Series B will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase the Company’s common stock issued to the Treasury, in conjunction with the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock Series B, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The shares of Preferred Stock Series B will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. We are not required to declare cash dividends on our common stock and have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock. Until the earlier of (i) December 23, 2011 or (ii) the date the Treasury no longer owns any shares of Preferred Stock Series B, we may not pay any dividends on our common stock without obtaining the prior consent of the Treasury. Future offerings of debt or other securities may adversely affect the market price of our stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. The Company may lose lower-cost funding sources. Checking, savings, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, the Company could lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing its funding costs and reducing the Company’s net interest income and net income. There may be changes in accounting policies or accounting standards. The Company’s accounting policies are fundamental to understanding its financial results and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of the Company’s assets or liabilities and financial results. The Company identified its accounting policies regarding the allowance for loan losses, security impairment, goodwill and other intangible assets, and income taxes to be critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Under each of these policies, it is possible that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions, using different assumptions, or as new information becomes available. 15 From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the form and content of the Company’s external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and the Company’s outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond the Company’s control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how the Company reports its financial results and condition. In certain cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently (also retroactively) which may result in the Company restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. The Company encounters continuous technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to operational risk. The Company faces the risk that the design of its controls and procedures, including those to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The Company is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is the Company) and to the risk that the Company’s (or its vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The Company’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, the Company faces increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act and the agreements between the Company and the Treasury related to the purchase of the Company’s Preferred Stock Series B and common stock warrants place restrictions on the Company’s ability to pay compensation to its senior officers. The Company’s business operations could be adversely affected if it were unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees. 16 There may be claims and litigation. From time to time as part of the Company’s normal course of business, customers make claims and take legal action against the Company based on actions or inactions of the Company. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services. This may also impact customer demand for the Company’s products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 