Risk Factors—Unexpected volatility or illiquidity associated with our alternative investment portfolio or in the financial markets could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct business.” Additional information about the alternative investments can be found in Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements included herein. Competition The reinsurance and insurance industry is highly competitive. Competition in the types of business that we currently underwrite and intend to underwrite in the future is based principally on: • premium rates; • ability to obtain terms and conditions appropriate with the risk we are assuming and in accordance with our underwriting guidelines; • the general reputation and perceived financial strength of the insurer or reinsurer; 16 Table of Contents • relationships with reinsurance and insurance intermediaries; • ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; • speed of claims payment and administrative activities; and • experience in the particular line of insurance or reinsurance to be underwritten. We compete directly with numerous independent reinsurance companies, captive insurance companies, insurance companies, subsidiaries or affiliates of established insurance companies or newly formed companies, reinsurance departments of primary insurance companies and underwriting syndicates from countries throughout the world in our chosen product lines. Many of these competitors are well established, have significant operating histories and have developed longstanding customer relationships. With the 2008 downturn in the financial markets worldwide having a negative impact on the investment portfolios of most insurers and reinsurers, we expect a decrease in capacity across most lines of business, with the potential for upward pressure on premium rates in the short to medium term. Ratings Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of reinsurance and insurance companies and are important to our ability to market our products. We have a financial strength rating for our non-Lloyd’s reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries from each of A.M. Best Company, or A.M. Best, Fitch, Inc., or Fitch, and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or Moody’s (see table below). These ratings reflect each rating agency’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations. They are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in securities issued by Max Capital. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, Max USA has outstanding $91.5 million and $100.0 million aggregate principal amount, respectively, of 7.20% senior notes due April 14, 2017. The senior notes are guaranteed by Max Capital. The senior notes were assigned a senior unsecured debt rating by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, or S&P, A.M. Best, Fitch, and Moody’s (see table below). The senior unsecured debt ratings assigned by rating agencies to reinsurance and insurance companies are based upon factors and criteria established independently by each rating agency. They are not an evaluation directed to investors in our senior notes, and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our senior notes. These ratings are subject to periodic review by the rating agencies or may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of the rating agencies. At December 31, 2008, we were rated as follows: A.M. Best Fitch Moody’s S&P Financial strength rating for non-Lloyd’s reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries A-(excellent)(1) A (strong)(2) A3(3) Not applicable Outlook on financial strength rating Positive(1) Stable(2) Stable(3) Not applicable Senior notes senior unsecured debt rating(4) bbb- BBB+ Baa2 BBB- Outlook on debt rating(4) Stable Stable Stable Positive Lloyd’s financial strength rating applicable to the Syndicates(5) A (excellent) A+ (strong) Not applicable A+ (strong) (1) Applicable to Max Bermuda, Max Specialty, Max America, Max Re Europe, and Max Insurance Europe. 17 Table of Contents (2) Applicable to Max Bermuda, Max Specialty, Max Re Europe, and Max Insurance Europe. (3) Applicable to Max Bermuda. (4) Applicable to Max USA. (5) Applicable to Syndicates 1400, 2525 and 2526. Administration We provide most of our own management and administrative services and establish and administer our loss reserves and policy benefits. Our underwriters, financial staff, chief operating officer and actuaries assist our claims personnel in performing traditional claims tasks such as monitoring claims and reserving. In addition, when we write highly specialized business, we from time to time hire third-party claims specialists to assist in evaluating loss exposure and establishing reserving practices and claims-paying procedures. Generally, we self-manage and administer the claims activity associated with our insurance and reinsurance operations and utilize both internal resources and external experts in the reserving and settlement of claims. In connection with the administration of the life and annuity benefit payments of our clients’ primary insureds that are covered on certain reinsurance transactions, our company, together with the client, will select an independent third-party claims administrator. We and our client then enter into a contract with the third-party administrator that will typically contain a provision requiring a significant amount of advance notice in order to terminate the contract. We are responsible for the loss and benefit payment expense charged by the third party administrator. Regulation The principal jurisdictions of our operations are Bermuda, Ireland and Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. Bermuda The Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda and its related regulations, which we refer to collectively as the Bermuda Insurance Act, regulates the reinsurance and insurance business of Max Bermuda and the reinsurance and insurance management business of Max Managers. The Bermuda Insurance Act imposes solvency and liquidity standards and auditing and reporting requirements on Max Bermuda and grants to the Bermuda Monetary Authority powers to supervise, investigate and intervene in the affairs of Bermuda reinsurance and insurance companies. Max Bermuda is required to prepare annual statutory financial statements, file an annual statutory financial return and have its statutory reserves actuarially certified. Under the Bermuda Insurance Act, Max Bermuda is subject to risk-based capital requirements in addition to minimum solvency and liquidity requirements. The risk-based capital model determines a control threshold for statutory capital and surplus. If a company falls below the control level, various degrees of regulatory action may be taken by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. In addition, Max Capital, Max Bermuda, Max Managers and Max Diversified are each required to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, which we refer to as the Bermuda Companies Act, regulating, among other things, the payment of dividends and making of distributions from contributed surplus. Pursuant to the Bermuda Insurance Act, any person who becomes a holder of at least 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% of our common shares must notify the Bermuda Monetary Authority in writing within 45 days of becoming such a holder or 30 days from the date they have knowledge of having become such a holder, whichever is later. The Bermuda Monetary Authority has the power to object to a person holding 10% or more of our common shares if it appears to the Authority that the person is not fit and proper to be such a holder. In such a case, the Bermuda Monetary Authority may require the holder to 18 Table of Contents reduce their shareholding in us and may direct, among other things, that the voting rights attaching to their common shares shall not be exercisable. A person that does not comply with such a direction from the Bermuda Monetary Authority will be guilty of an offense. Ireland and Switzerland Our Irish operating subsidiaries, Max Insurance Europe and Max Re Europe, are subject to regulation by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority, or IFSRA. Max Insurance Europe must comply with the Irish Insurance Acts 1909 to 2000, regulations promulgated thereunder, regulations relating to insurance business promulgated under the European Communities Act 1972, the Irish Central Bank Acts 1942 to 1998 as amended, regulations promulgated thereunder and directions and guidelines, and codes of conduct, issued by IFSRA, which we refer to collectively as the Insurance Acts and Regulations. Max Insurance Europe is required to maintain statutory reserves, particularly in respect of underwriting liabilities and a solvency margin as provided for in the Insurance Acts and Regulations. Assets constituting statutory reserves must comply with admissibility, diversification, localization and currency matching rules. Statutory reserves must be actuarially certified annually. Max Re Europe must comply with the European Communities (Reinsurance) Regulations, 2006 and rules made thereunder and insofar as relevant to reinsurance the Irish Insurance Acts 1909 to 2000, regulations promulgated thereunder, regulations relating to reinsurance business promulgated under the European Communities Act 1972, the Irish Central Bank Acts 1942 to 1998 as amended, regulations promulgated thereunder and directions, papers and guidelines and codes of conduct issued by IFSRA. Max Re Europe is required to maintain statutory reserves, particularly in respect of underwriting liabilities and a solvency margin as provided for in the European Communities (Reinsurance) Regulations, 2006. Assets constituting statutory reserves must comply with certain principles including obligations to diversify the assets, to secure sufficiency, liquidity, security, quality, profitability and currency matching of investments. Statutory reserves must be actuarially certified annually. Max Insurance Europe and Max Re Europe are entitled to do business on a “Freedom of Services” basis throughout the European Economic Area, or EEA. Because Switzerland is not a member country of the EEA, Max Insurance Europe has established an authorized branch in Switzerland. The Swiss branch is subject to regulation by the Swiss Federal Office of Private Insurance, or FOPI, pursuant to the Swiss Insurance Supervision Law, as well as the Supervision Ordinance promulgated thereunder, and guidelines and directives issued by the FOPI. The Swiss branch is required to maintain statutory reserves in Switzerland in regard to business written in Switzerland, and maintain a solvency margin pursuant to the FOPI directives. Assets constituting statutory reserves in Switzerland must comply with FOPI guidelines as to admissibility, diversification, localization and currency matching rules. The statutory reserves must be actuarially certified annually. United Kingdom and Lloyd’s The financial services industry in the United Kingdom is regulated by the FSA. The FSA is an independent non-governmental body, given statutory powers by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Although accountable to treasury ministers and through them to Parliament, it is funded entirely by the firms it regulates. The FSA has wide ranging powers in relation to rule-making, investigation and enforcement to enable it to meet its four statutory objectives, which are summarized as one overall aim: “to promote efficient, orderly and fair markets and to help retail consumers achieve a fair deal.” The Lloyd’s market permits members of Lloyd’s to underwrite insurance and reinsurance risks through Lloyd’s syndicates. Members of Lloyd’s may participate on a 19 Table of Contents Lloyd’s syndicate for one or more underwriting years by providing capital to support the syndicate’s underwriting activities. All syndicates at Lloyd’s are managed by managing agents that receive fees and profit commissions in respect of the underwriting and administrative services they provide to the syndicates. We participate in the Lloyd’s market through the Syndicates. Max at Lloyd’s is the managing agent for each of the Syndicates. The Max Corporate Capital Vehicles are corporate members of Lloyd’s and participate in the underwriting years of the Syndicates for which they are a Syndicate member. By entering into a membership agreement with Lloyd’s, the Max Corporate Capital Vehicles have undertaken to comply with all Lloyd’s byelaws and regulations as well as the provisions of the Lloyd’s Acts and the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The Syndicates, as well as the Max Corporate Capital Vehicles, Max at Lloyd’s and their directors, are subject to the Lloyd’s regulatory regime. In relation to insurance business, the FSA regulates insurers, insurance intermediaries and Lloyd’s itself. The FSA and Lloyd’s have common objectives in ensuring that Lloyd’s market is appropriately regulated and, to minimize duplication, the FSA has agreed arrangements with Lloyd’s for co-operation on supervision and enforcement. Max at Lloyd’s underwriting activities are therefore regulated by the FSA as well as being subject to the Lloyd’s “franchise.” Both the FSA and Lloyd’s have powers to remove their respective authorization to manage Lloyd’s syndicates. Lloyd’s approves annually the business plan of each of the Syndicates along with any subsequent material changes, and the amount of capital required to support those plans. The FSA requires that the managing agent of the Syndicates carries out a capital assessment of the Syndicates in order to determine whether any additional capital should be held by the Syndicates on account of any particular risks arising from its business or operational infrastructure. This assessment (known as an “individual capital assessment”) is reviewed and may be challenged by Lloyd’s. United States Max Specialty is domiciled and licensed in Delaware as a property and casualty insurer and does not hold insurance certificates of authority in any other jurisdiction. Nothwithstanding the foregoing, Max Specialty is listed or authorized as an eligible surplus lines insurer in 49 other U.S. states. Although Max Specialty is subject to regulation as an eligible surplus lines insurer by state insurance departments and under applicable state insurance laws in each jurisdiction in which it is listed or authorized, the principal insurance regulatory authority is the Delaware Department of Insurance. Max America is domiciled in Indiana and is admitted as a licensed insurer in all 50 states. As such, Max America is also subject to regulation by all state insurance departments and under all applicable state insurance laws. The principal insurance regulatory authority, however, is the Indiana Department of Insurance. As an insurance holding company, we are also subject to regulation under the Delaware and Indiana insurance holding company system laws. Such laws and applicable regulations require periodic disclosure concerning stock ownership and prior approval of certain intercompany transactions within the holding company system. Furthermore, no person, corporation or other entity is permitted to acquire control of Max Capital, Max USA, Max Specialty or Max America unless such person, corporation or entity has obtained the prior approval of the Delaware and/or Indiana Insurance Commissioner. For purposes of the Delaware and Indiana insurance holding company system laws, any person acquiring, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting securities of an insurance company or any of its parent companies is presumed to have acquired “control” of that company. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which Max Specialty and Max America are domiciled require, among other things, that Max Specialty and Max America maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, meet solvency standards and submit to periodic examinations of its financial condition. Specifically, Max USA and its 20 Table of Contents subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by state laws, including the laws of their states of domicile (Delaware and Indiana). The risk-based capital standards, or RBC standards, based upon the Risk-Based Capital Model Act adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, require Max USA and its subsidiaries to report their results of RBC calculations to state insurance departments and the NAIC. These RBC standards provide for different levels of regulatory attention depending upon the ratio of an insurance company’s total adjusted capital, as calculated in accordance with NAIC guidelines, to its authorized control level RBC limits. These laws and regulations also sometimes restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. These statutes, regulations and policies may also restrict the ability of Max Specialty or Max America to write insurance policies, to make certain investments and to distribute funds. We may from time to time be subject to regulation under the insurance and insurance holding company statutes of one or more additional states. Other Jurisdictions We do not intend to conduct any activities that may constitute the transaction of the business of insurance in any jurisdiction in which we are not licensed or otherwise authorized to engage in such activities. In addition to the regulatory requirements imposed by the jurisdictions in which a reinsurer is licensed, a reinsurer’s business operations are affected by regulatory requirements governing credit for reinsurance in other jurisdictions in which its ceding companies are located. In general, a ceding company that obtains reinsurance from a reinsurer that is licensed, accredited or approved by the jurisdiction in which the ceding company files statutory financial statements is permitted to reflect in its statutory financial statements a credit in an aggregate amount equal to the liability for unearned premiums and loss reserves and loss expense reserves ceded to the reinsurer. Many jurisdictions also permit ceding companies to take credit on their statutory financial statements for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted reinsurers if certain prescribed security arrangements are made. Because Max Bermuda is not licensed, accredited or approved in any jurisdiction other than Bermuda, in certain instances our reinsurance customers require Max Bermuda to provide a letter of credit or enter into other security arrangements. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had 336 employees. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports and the Proxy Statement for our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders are made available, free of charge, on our web site, http://www.maxcapgroup.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our web site. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results or anticipated results. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face, but represent the risks that we believe are material. However, there may be additional risks that we currently consider not to be material or of which we are not currently aware, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth above. Risks Related to Our Business Our losses and benefits may exceed our loss and benefit reserves, which could significantly increase our liabilities and reduce our net income. Our success depends on our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the business that we insure and reinsure. If we fail to assess these risks accurately, or if events or circumstances cause our estimates to be incorrect, we may not establish appropriate premium rates and our reserves may be inadequate to cover our losses. If our actual claims experience is less favorable than our underlying assumptions, we will be required to increase our liabilities, which will reduce our net income. As of December 31, 2008, we had property and casualty losses and life and annuity benefit reserves of $4,305.1 million. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred net loss and loss expenses and claims and policy benefits of $695.3 million. We periodically review and, where appropriate, adjust our property and casualty losses and life and annuity benefit reserves in the period in which this review occurs. Reserves are actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of what we ultimately expect to pay on claims and benefits, based on facts and circumstances then known, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in claim frequency and severity, mortality, morbidity and other variable factors such as inflation. Reinsurance has inherently greater uncertainties of property and casualty losses and life and annuity benefit reserves as compared to insurance, primarily due to: • the necessary reliance on the ceding company or insurer for information regarding losses and benefits; and • the lapse of time from the occurrence of the event to the reporting of the loss or benefit to the reinsurer and the ultimate resolution or settlement of the loss or benefit. Our actual property and casualty losses and life and annuity benefit reserves may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates contained in our financial statements. Although we conduct due diligence on the transactions that we underwrite in connection with our reinsurance business, we are dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. Specifically, we are subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks reinsured by us and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. As industry practices and legal, judicial and social conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond the period that we intended or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not manifest themselves until many years after we issue insurance or reinsurance contracts affected by these changes. As a result, we may not be able to ascertain the full extent of our liabilities under our insurance or reinsurance contracts for many years following the issuance of our contracts. If we determine that our reserves are inadequate, we will increase our reserves with a corresponding reduction in net income for the period in which the deficiency is identified. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to write reinsurance and insurance in the property and casualty market may be affected by cyclical trends and in the life and annuity market by global economic conditions and fluctuations in interest rates. The property and casualty reinsurance and insurance industry has historically been affected by cyclical trends. Demand for property and casualty reinsurance and insurance is influenced significantly by underwriting results and prevailing general economic and market conditions, all of which affect reinsurance and insurance premium rates and liability retention decisions of companies and insurers. The supply of property and casualty reinsurance and insurance is directly related to the levels of surplus available to support assumed business that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being realized in the reinsurance and insurance industry, the frequency and severity of losses and prevailing general economic and market conditions. The cyclical trends in the property and casualty reinsurance and insurance industries and the profitability of these industries can also be significantly affected by volatile and unpredictable developments, including what our management believes to be a trend of courts to grant increasingly larger awards for certain damages, natural disasters such as catastrophic hurricanes, windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods and fires, fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices of investments and inflationary pressures that may tend to affect the size of losses experienced by insureds and primary insurance companies. We cannot predict with accuracy whether market conditions will remain constant, improve or deteriorate. Adverse market conditions may lead to a significant reduction in property and casualty premium rates, less favorable policy terms and/or less premium volume. The nature of the life and annuity transactions we consider results in a limited number of transactions actually bound with potentially large variations in annual premium volume. We cannot predict how market conditions will develop or the magnitude of their effect on our life and annuity reinsurance business in the future. Competitors may make it difficult for us to market our products effectively and offer our products at a profit. The reinsurance and insurance industry is highly competitive. Competition in the types of business that we currently underwrite and intend to underwrite in the future is based principally on: • premium rates; • ability to obtain terms and conditions appropriate with the risk we are assuming and in accordance with our underwriting guidelines; • the general reputation and perceived financial strength of the insurer or reinsurer; • relationships with reinsurance and insurance intermediaries; • ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; • speed of claims payment and administrative activities; and • experience in the particular line of reinsurance or insurance to be written. We compete directly with numerous independent reinsurance companies, captive insurance companies, insurance companies, subsidiaries or affiliates of established insurance companies or newly formed companies, reinsurance departments of primary insurance companies and underwriting syndicates from countries throughout the world in our chosen product lines. Many of these competitors are well established, have significant operating histories, underwriting expertise and extensive capital resources and have developed longstanding customer relationships. Our worldwide insurance and reinsurance competitors include ACE Limited, American International Group, Inc., Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., Swiss Reinsurance Company and XL Capital Ltd., all larger companies, with higher credit ratings and greater credit capacity. Additionally, competitors such as Allied World Assurance 23 Table of Contents Holdings, Ltd., Arch Capital Group Ltd., Ariel Reinsurance Ltd., AXIS Capital Holdings Limited, Endurance Specialty Insurance Ltd., Flagstone Reinsurance Limited, Platinum Underwriters Reinsurance, Inc. and Validus Reinsurance Ltd. compete in many of our property and casualty markets. There can be no assurance as to the effect that governmental actions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will have on such markets generally or on us in particular. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, world governments have taken unprecendented actions in an attempt to stabilize and provide liquidity to these markets. In the United States, on October 3, 2008, Former President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or the EESA, into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury Department has the authority to, among other things, purchase mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. In addition, the U.S. Treasury Department announced that it will make up to $250 billion in preferred stock investments in U.S. banks and thrifts and that it is also considering taking equity stakes in insurance companies. The U.S. Federal Government, U.S. Federal Reserve and other U.S. governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. European and other non-U.S governments have instituted their own stabilization programs. It is possible that our competitors, such as companies that engage in both life and property and casualty insurance lines of business, may participate in some or all of these programs. There can be no assurance as to the effect that any such governmental actions will have on the financial markets generally or on our competitive position, business and financial condition, in particular. The property, property catastrophe, aviation and marine insurance and reinsurance that we offer may make us vulnerable to losses from catastrophes and may cause our results of operations to vary significantly from period to period. The property, property catastrophe, aviation and marine insurance and reinsurance that we offer may cause us to be vulnerable to losses from catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, volcano eruptions, explosions, airplane crashes and other natural or man-made disasters. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, but the loss experience of property catastrophe insurers and reinsurers has been generally characterized as low frequency and high severity in nature. In addition, because accounting regulations do not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a significant and negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to write new business also could be significantly and negatively impacted. A downgrade or withdrawal of any of our ratings may significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Companies, insurers and reinsurance and insurance intermediaries use financial ratings as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers and reinsurers. An unfavorable rating or the lack of a rating of its reinsurer or insurer may adversely affect the rating of a company purchasing reinsurance or insurance. 24 Table of Contents Our non-Lloyd’s financial strength ratings as of December 31, 2008 are “A-” (4th out of 14 categories) by A.M. Best, “A” (6th out of 21 categories) by Fitch, and “A3” (7th out of 21 categories) by Moody’s. The ratings assigned by rating agencies to reinsurance and insurance companies are based upon factors relevant to policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. To date, none of our ratings issued by an independent rating agency has been downgraded. However, if an independent rating agency downgrades or withdraws any of our ratings, we could be severely limited or prevented from writing any new reinsurance and insurance contracts and certain existing contracts may be terminated, which would significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. The Lloyd’s market is currently rated “A” (excellent) by A.M. Best, “A+”: (strong) by Fitch, and “A+” (strong) by S&P. In the event that Lloyd’s rating is downgraded below “A-” in the future, the downgrade could have a material adverse effect on our ability to underwrite business through the Syndicates and on our financial condition or results of operations. A limited number of reinsurance and insurance brokers and broker transactions account for a large portion of our revenues, and a loss of all or a substantial portion of this brokered business could have a significant and negative effect on our business and results of operations. A substantial portion of our reinsurance and insurance business is placed through brokered transactions, which involve a limited number of reinsurance and insurance brokers. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the top three independent producing intermediaries and brokerage firms accounted for 18%, 16% and 10%; 22%, 13% and 12%; and 25%, 16% and 12%, respectively, of property and casualty gross premiums written. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the top independent producing intermediary and brokerage firm accounted for 27%, 30% and 100%, respectively, of life and annuity gross premiums written. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the brokered business provided through one or more of these brokers could have a significant and negative effect on our business and results of operations. The involvement of reinsurance brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our policies to reinsurance brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the ceding insurers that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with us. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of any particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the ceding insurer pays premiums for these policies to reinsurance brokers for payment to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for these premiums, whether or not we have actually received them. Consequently, consistent with the industry, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with whom we do business. However, due to the unsettled and fact-specific nature of the law, we are unable to quantify our exposure to this risk. To date, we have not experienced any material losses related to these credit risks. Current investigations and proceedings by government agencies relating to insurance practices could adversely affect the industry in which we operate. Beginning in October 2004, the New York State Attorney General filed a series of suits against certain insurance brokers and insurance companies, not including us or any of our affiliates, challenging the legality of certain practices, including some practices connected with Placement Services Agreements. Attorneys General in several other states have filed similar claims against various brokers and insurance companies. Most of these claims by the New York and other state attorneys general have been settled, but a few remain pending. 25 Table of Contents In October 2007, the Connecticut Attorney General filed suit against an insurance broker alleging unrelated state antitrust violations. In addition to these actions, other regulatory authorities have launched parallel investigations. We are currently party to two lawsuits alleging broker misconduct, as more fully described in Item 3—Legal Proceedings. While we do not believe that issues facing major producing brokers will have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a significant and negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We seek to mitigate our loss exposure by writing a number of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis. Excess of loss insurance and reinsurance indemnifies the insured against losses in excess of a specified amount. We also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum negotiated to limit our risks may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. As a result of these risks, one or more catastrophic or other events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results and could have a significant and negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we purchase reinsurance and retrocessional reinsurance for our own account in order to mitigate the effect of large and multiple losses. A reinsurer’s insolvency or inability or refusal to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance or retrocessional agreement with us could have an adverse effect on our Company because we remain liable to our client irrespective of our reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance. We cannot be sure that any of the loss limitation methods will be effective and mitigate our exposure. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. Accordingly, as a result of these unfavorable market conditions, we may be unable to obtain desired amounts of reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance, we may not be able to negotiate appropriate or acceptable terms or obtain reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. If we fail to obtain reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance at all or on acceptable terms, our capacity to underwrite new business may be limited. If we fail to write insurance or reinsurance contracts with the provisions that provide loss limitation protection or if we purchase reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance but are unable to collect, we may have difficulty mitigating the effect of large or multiple losses which, in turn, could have a significant and negative effect on our business. Operational risks, including human or systems failures are inherent in our business. Operational risks and losses can result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures or external events. We believe that our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to our business. Moreover, our information technology and application systems have been an important part of our underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. A major defect or failure in our internal controls or information 26 Table of Contents technology and application systems could result in management distraction, harm our reputation or increase expenses. We believe appropriate controls and mitigation procedures are in place to prevent significant risk of defect in our internal controls, information technology and application systems, but internal controls provide only a reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to the absence of errors or irregularities and any ineffectiveness of such controls and procedures could have a significant and negative effect on our business. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends, as well as to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover our losses. To the extent that the funds generated by our ongoing operations are insufficient to fund future operating requirements and cover claim payments, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth. Markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months, due in part to financial stresses affecting the liquidity of the banking system and the financial markets generally. In recent months, this volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. These circumstances have also exerted downward pressure on stock prices and reduced access to the equity and debt markets. Although we currently believe we have access to the equity and debt markets, any future equity or debt financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Any future equity financings could be dilutive to our existing shareholders or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities. Our access to funds under existing credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time, and we might be forced to replace credit sources in a difficult market. There has also been recent consolidation in the industry, which could lead to increased reliance on and exposure to particular institutions. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. Our inability to obtain adequate capital could have a significant and negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A recession and other adverse consequences of the recent U.S. and global economic and financial industry downturns could harm our business, our liquidity and financial condition, and our stock price. Recent global market and economic conditions have experienced severe disruptions. These conditions, may potentially affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our products, the ability of customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources and our investment performance. Continued volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may adversely affect our stock price. We could incur substantial losses and reduced liquidity if one of the financial institutions we use in our operations, including those institutions that participate in our credit facilities, fails. We maintain cash balances, including restricted cash held in premium trust accounts, significantly in excess of the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits at 27 Table of Contents various U.S. depository institutions. We also maintain cash balances in foreign banks and institutions and rely upon funding commitments from several banks and financial institutions that participate in our credit facilities. As the worldwide fallout from the credit crisis persists, the financial strength of some depository institutions and investment banks has diminished, and this trend may continue. If one or more of these financial institutions were to fail, our ability to access cash balances, draw down on our credit facilities might be temporarily or permanently limited, which could have a significant and negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. If we lose or are unable to retain our senior management and other key personnel, or if we are unable to renew the Bermudian work permits of any members of our senior management or other key personnel, our ability to implement our business strategy could be delayed or hindered, which, in turn, could significantly and negatively affect our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the efforts of our senior management and other key personnel to implement our business strategy. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of our senior management. In addition, under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians, other than spouses of Bermudians, may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. A work permit may be granted or renewed only upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian, spouse of a Bermudian, holder of a permanent resident’s certificate or holder of a working resident’s certificate is available who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer. The Bermuda government limits the term of work permits to six years, subject to certain exemptions for key employees. The employment permits for our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer expire in April 2010 and May 2009, respectively. The loss of the services of one or more of the members of our senior management or other key personnel, including as a result of our inability to renew the Bermudian work permit of such individual, or our inability to hire and retain other senior management and other key personnel, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and, consequently, significantly and negatively affect our business. Currency fluctuations could result in exchange losses and our failure to manage our multiple currency liabilities effectively could significantly and negatively impact our business. We maintain a portion of our investments, insurance and reinsurance liabilities, and insurance and reinsurance assets denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Consequently, we and our subsidiaries may experience foreign exchange losses. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 68.6% of our reinsurance and insurance reserves were denominated in U.S. dollars. We purchase fixed maturities denominated in the currencies of the relevant reinsurance and insurance liabilities to manage our multiple currency exposures. We continually monitor those assets and liabilities to reduce our exposure to currency risk. Mismatches in multiple currency assets and liabilities may give rise to currency losses and our business could be significantly and negatively affected. We publish our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars. Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to convert other currencies, particularly other European currencies including the Euro and British pound, into U.S. dollars will impact our reported consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from year to year. Our failure to maintain sufficient letter of credit facilities or to increase our letter of credit capacity on commercially acceptable terms as we grow could significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy. Our reinsurance operations are conducted by our companies licensed and operated in Bermuda, the United Kingdom and Ireland. Many jurisdictions do not permit insurance 28 Table of Contents companies to take statutory credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted reinsurers, such as Max Bermuda and Max Re Europe, in their statutory financial statements unless appropriate security measures are implemented. Consequently, the majority of our reinsurance clients typically require us to obtain a letter of credit or provide other collateral through funds withheld or trust arrangements. When we obtain a letter of credit facility, we are required to provide collateral to secure our obligations under the facility. As of December 31, 2008, we have three letter of credit facilities totaling $695.0 million with an additional $200.0 million available subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2008, we had $490.3 million in letters of credit and a $150.0 million unsecured loan outstanding under these facilities. We also have a GBP 90.0 million letter of credit facility supporting our funds at Lloyd’s commitments, of which GBP 63.6 million is utilized as of December 31, 2008. Our failure to maintain our letter of credit facilities or to increase our letter of credit capacity on commercially acceptable terms as we grow could significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy. A significant decrease in our capital or surplus could enable certain clients to terminate reinsurance agreements or to require additional collateral. Certain of our assumed reinsurance contracts contain provisions that permit our clients to cancel the contract or require additional collateral in the event of a downgrade in our ratings below specified levels or our capital or surplus is reduced (typically by 20% to 50%) since inception or effectiveness of the agreement. Whether a client would exercise such cancellation rights would likely depend, among other things, on the reason the provision is triggered, the prevailing market conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. If any such provisions were to become exercisable, we cannot predict whether or how many of our clients would actually exercise such rights or the extent to which they would have a significant and negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations or future prospects and could have a significant adverse effect on the market price for our securities. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may not be indicative of our long-term prospects. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period. These fluctuations result from a variety of factors, including the seasonality of the reinsurance and insurance business, the volume and mix of reinsurance and insurance products that we write, loss experience on our reinsurance and insurance liabilities, the performance of our investment portfolio and our ability to assess and integrate our risk management strategy effectively. In particular, we seek to underwrite products and make investments to achieve long-term results. As a result, our short-term results of operations may not be indicative of our long-term prospects. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected to the extent that we sustain losses from our reinsurance and insurance of terrorist attacks and similar risks. Worldwide terrorist attacks, threats of future terrorist attacks and the military initiatives and political unrest in certain geographic areas have all adversely affected general economic, market and political conditions, increasing many of the risks associated with the insurance markets worldwide. Although we may attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and certain other similar risks from some coverage that we write, we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, we have written and will continue to write some policies explicitly covering acts of terrorism. These risks are inherently unpredictable and recent events may lead to increased frequency and severity of losses. It is difficult to predict the timing of such 29 Table of Contents events with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss that any given occurrence will generate. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected to the extent that we sustain reinsurance and insurance losses from terrorist attacks and similar risks. In addition, because accounting regulations do not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for such terrorist events until they occur, claims from terrorist events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a significant and negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to write new business also could be adversely impacted. We are a holding company that depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. Max Capital is a holding company and does not have any significant operations or assets other than its ownership of the shares of its subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our subsidiaries are our primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including any future debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Some of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends. The inability of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have an adverse effect on our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and/or meet our debt service obligations. In addition, each of Max Bermuda’s credit facilities prohibits Max Bermuda from paying dividends at any time that there is a default under the particular facility, which will occur if Max Capital’s shareholders’ equity or Max Bermuda’s shareholders’ equity is less than a specified amount, as well as in certain other circumstances. Max Capital is party to one credit facility that imposes parallel restrictions on its ability to pay dividends. Max Capital, Max Bermuda, Max Managers and Max Diversified. The payment of dividends and making of distributions by Max Capital, Max Bermuda, Max Managers and Max Diversified are limited under Bermuda law and regulations. Under the Bermuda Insurance Act, Max Bermuda must maintain specified minimum solvency levels and is prohibited from declaring or paying dividends that would result in noncompliance. Further, as a long-term insurer, Max Bermuda must maintain long-term business assets of a value at least $0.25 million greater than its long-term business liabilities and is prohibited from declaring or paying dividends if it does not comply or such action would result in noncompliance with the Bermuda Insurance Act. Additionally, under the Bermuda Companies Act, each of Max Capital, Max Bermuda, Max Managers and Max Diversified may only declare or pay a dividend if, among other things, it has reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or would after the payment be, able to pay its respective liabilities as they become due. Max Re Europe, Max Insurance Europe and Max Europe Holdings. Under Irish company law, each of Max Re Europe, Max Insurance Europe and Max Europe Holdings is permitted only to make distributions out of profits available for distribution. A company’s profits available for distribution are its accumulated, realized profits, so far as not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. Further, in general, under applicable insurance regulations, Max Insurance Europe may not enter into a material arrangement with a related company, including, but not limited to, paying a dividend, making a distribution, providing any form of guarantee or entering into a loan agreement, without pre-approving any such arrangement with the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority. Ireland has already adopted regulations implementing the EU Reinsurance Directive and these regulations (the Irish European Communities (Reinsurance) Regulations, 2006) became fully applicable to Max Re Europe on December 10, 2007. These regulations, 30 Table of Contents which are broadly in line with current European Union life and non-life insurance regulation, mean that Max Re Europe is subject to formal regulation, and prudential and financial supervision by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority in a manner similar to Max Insurance Europe. Max USA, Max Specialty and Max America. The payment of dividends and distributions by Max USA, Max Specialty and Max America is limited under Delaware and Indiana law and regulation. Neither Max USA nor Max Specialty may declare and pay dividends on its capital if the amount paid exceeds an amount equal to the surplus which represents the excess of Max USA’s or Max Specialty’s, as applicable, net assets over paid-in-capital or, if there is no surplus, Max USA’s or Max Specialty’s, as applicable, net profits for the current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year. In addition, under applicable Delaware case law, dividends may not be paid on Max USA’s or Max Specialty’s capital stock if it becomes insolvent or the payment of the dividend will render it insolvent. To the extent Max USA or Max Specialty were to pay dividends and is deemed to be insolvent or inadequately capitalized, a bankruptcy court could direct the return of any dividends. Max America is prohibited from paying dividends unless (i) it has assets, in the amount of such payment, in excess of its liabilities, including its capital stock, and (ii) the dividend does not reduce its surplus to less than 50% of its capital stock. Moreover, Indiana law prohibits Max America from paying dividends except out of earned surplus, unless approved by the Indiana Insurance Commissioner. Delaware and Indiana insurance law also limit the ability of Max Specialty and Max America, as applicable, to pay extraordinary dividends. Neither Max Specialty nor Max America may pay an extraordinary dividend until 30 days after such company’s respective insurance commissioner has received notice of the intended dividend and has not objected in such time or has approved the payment of the extraordinary dividend within the 30-day period. An extraordinary dividend is defined as any dividend or distribution that together with any other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 consecutive months exceeds the greater of: (i) 10% of the insurance company’s surplus as of the preceding December 31, or (ii) the insurance company’s net income, not including realized capital gains, for the 12-month period ending the preceding December 31 (but does not include pro rata distributions of any class of Max Specialty’s own securities). The Delaware and Indiana Insurance Commissioner each has broad discretion to limit the payment of dividends by insurance companies. Max at Lloyd’s. There are also significant restrictions regarding our ability to remove funds deposited to support the underwriting capacity of the Syndicates. Funds which are required by Lloyd’s to be held or retained by the Syndicates may not be paid as dividends. Underwriting capacity of a member of Lloyd’s must be supported by providing a deposit in the form of cash, securities or letters of credit, which are referred to as Funds at Lloyd’s in an amount determined by Lloyd’s in relation to the member’s underwriting capacity. This amount is determined by Lloyd’s through application of a risk based capital formula. The consent of the Council of Lloyd’s may be required when a syndicate proposes to increase its underwriting capacity for the following year. The Council of Lloyd’s has wide discretionary powers to regulate members’ underwriting at Lloyd’s. It may, for instance, change the basis on which syndicate expenses are allocated or vary the Funds at Lloyd’s ratio or the investment criteria applicable to the provision of Funds at Lloyd’s. Exercising any of these powers might affect the amount of a corporate member’s overall premium limit (the amount of business which the member is permitted to accept in any underwriting year) and consequently the return on an investment in the corporate member in a given underwriting year. In particular, it should be noted that the annual business plans of a syndicate are subject to the review and approval of the Lloyd’s Franchise Board. The Lloyd’s Franchise Board was formally constituted on January 1, 2003 and has now become the managing agent’s principal interface with the 31 Table of Contents Council of Lloyd’s. The main goal of the Franchise Board is to seek to create and maintain a commercial environment at Lloyd’s in which underwriting risk is prudently managed while providing maximum long term returns to capital providers. The Funds at Lloyd’s requirements may increase from year to year, resulting in a greater burden. This may result in the Syndicates having to reduce or even cease new business in future years. The Max Corporate Capital Vehicles currently depend on a letter of credit facility to meet the majority of the Funds at Lloyd’s required. Should it become impossible to maintain this facility or replace it on equivalent terms, the Max Corporate Capital Vehicles would be required to deposit a significant amount of cash and assets as replacement Funds at Lloyd’s. Where an underwriting year makes a loss, that loss may be met by the Funds at Lloyd’s of the members who participated on that underwriting year. The profits of an underwriting year may not generally be released to members of Lloyd’s until the business written has been fully reinsured into a Lloyd’s syndicate constituted for a future year of account, referred to as reinsurance to close. This reinsurance may not be effected until the third year following the underwriting year during which the relevant business was written. As with the business plan for any Lloyd’s syndicate, the business plans prepared by Max at Lloyd’s for the Syndicates must be approved by the Lloyd’s Franchise Performance Directorate, or FPD. Business plans contain significant financial data on classes of business, projected premium levels, line sizes, retentions and proposed reinsurance programmes. Business plans are reviewed and analyzed in detail by the FPD. There can be no assurance that changes to the Syndicates’ business plans will not be required in a manner that is unfavorable to shareholders in order to gain the FPD’s approval. Lloyd’s may, where it has a regulatory concern, impose a requirement upon a particular syndicate to obtain Lloyd’s consent before it makes any increase in its stamp capacity. These restrictions could act in such a way as to impact adversely on the Company. If we do not generate positive cash flows, we may be unable to service our indebtedness. Our ability to pay principal and interest on the notes and on our other indebtedness depends on our future operating performance. Future operating performance is subject to market conditions and business factors that are often beyond our control. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash flows to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to allow us to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, we may have to seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that the terms of our indebtedness will allow us to take these measures or that these measures would satisfy our scheduled debt service obligations. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing the senior notes or our current or future credit facilities could trigger prepayment obligations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The indenture governing the senior notes contains covenants that impose restrictions on our company and certain of our subsidiaries with respect to, among other things, the incurrence of liens and the disposition of capital stock of these subsidiaries. In addition, each of our credit facilities requires our Company and/or certain of our subsidiaries to comply with certain covenants, including the maintenance of a minimum consolidated net tangible worth and restrictions on the payment of dividends. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under the indenture or any credit facility we may enter into in the future, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay the notes or any amounts outstanding under these facilities prior to maturity. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents Consolidation in the insurance industry could adversely impact us. Our ability to compete may be harmed if insurance industry participants consolidate. These consolidated entities may try to use their enhanced market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. If competitive pressures reduce our prices, we would expect to write less business. As the insurance industry consolidates, competition for customers will become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, further reducing our operating margins. In addition, insurance companies that merge may be able to spread their risks across a consolidated, larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance. The number of companies offering retrocessional reinsurance may decline. Reinsurance intermediaries could also consolidate, potentially adversely impacting our ability to access business and distribute our products. We could also experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. Any of the foregoing could significantly and negatively affect our business or our results of operation. The integration of new insurance and reinsurance initiatives into our existing operations may present significant challenges. We may face significant challenges in integrating new insurance and reinsurance initiatives, including Max at Lloyd’s, into our existing operations in a timely, efficient and effective manner. Successful integration will depend on, among other things, the effective execution of our business plan for the new insurance and reinsurance initiatives, our ability to effectively integrate the operations of new insurance and reinsurance initiatives into our existing risk management techniques, our ability to effectively manage any regulatory issues created by our entry into new markets and geographic locations, our ability to retain key personnel and other operational and economic factors. There can be no assurance that the integration of new insurance and reinsurance initiatives will be successful or that the business derived therefrom will prove to be profitable. The failure to integrate new insurance and reinsurance initiatives successfully or to manage the challenges presented by the integration process may adversely impact our financial results. Risks Related to Our Investment Strategy If our calculations with respect to our liabilities are incorrect, or if we do not appropriately structure our investments in relation to our anticipated liabilities, we could be forced to liquidate investments at a significant loss. Our ability to measure and manage risk and to implement our investment strategy is crucial to our success. We cannot assure investors that we will successfully structure our investments in relation to our anticipated liabilities under our reinsurance and insurance policies. If our calculations with respect to these liabilities are incorrect, or if we do not properly structure our investments to satisfy such liabilities, we could be forced to liquidate investments at a significant loss. Changes in market interest rates could have a significant and negative effect on our investment portfolio, investment income and results of operations. Increasing market interest rates reduce the value of our fixed maturities, and we may realize a loss if we sell fixed maturities whose value has fallen below their acquisition cost. Declining market interest rates can have the effect of reducing our investment income, as we invest proceeds from positive cash flows from operations and reinvest proceeds from maturing and called investments in new investments that may yield less than our investment portfolio’s average rate of return. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused towards by monitoring the duration and structure of our investment portfolio relative to the duration and structure of our liability 33 Table of Contents portfolio. However, our estimates of the duration and structure of our liability portfolio may be inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the liability. Any measures we take that are intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment may not effectively mitigate such interest rate sensitivity. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our investment portfolio, investment income and results of operations. Unexpected volatility or illiquidity associated with our fixed maturities investment portfolio or in the financial markets could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct business. Although our investment strategy for our fixed maturities portfolio requires all fixed maturity investments, when purchased, to have a minimum credit rating of BAA3/BBB-, or its equivalent, from at least one internationally recognized statistical rating organization, unexpected volatility or illiquidity in the financial markets could have significant adverse impact on the credit ratings of the fixed maturities investment we hold. Deterioration of credit ratings on our fixed maturities investments may result in the need to liquidate these securities in the financial markets. If we are required to liquidate these securities during a period of tightening credit in the financial markets, we may realize a significant loss. Our portfolio of investment grade fixed maturities includes mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. These types of securities have cash flows that are backed by the principal and interest payments of a group of underlying mortgages or other receivables. During 2008, delinquency and default rates increased on these types of securities, and particularly on securities backed by sub-prime mortgages. Generally, sub-prime mortgages are considered to be those made to borrowers who do not qualify for market interest rates for one or more possible reasons, such as a low credit score, a limited or lack of credit history, or a lack of earnings documentation. As a result of the increasing default rates of sub-prime borrowers, there is a greater risk of defaults on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, especially those that are non-investment grade. Therefore, fixed maturities securities backed by sub-prime mortgages have exhibited significant declines in market value. These factors combined with the contraction in liquidity in the principal markets for these securities makes the estimate of fair value increasingly uncertain. The fair values of our holdings in securities exposed to sub-prime borrowers are generally not based on quoted prices for identical securities, but are based on model-derived valuations from independent pricing sources in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets. Should we need to liquidate these securities within a short period of time, the actual realized proceeds may be significantly different from the fair values estimated at December 31, 2008. We believe our exposure to sub-prime credit risk is limited, although there can be no assurance that events in the sub-prime mortgage sector will not adversely affect the value of our investments. The determination of the impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. The determination of the impairments taken on our investments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, which could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. 34 Table of Contents Our valuation of fixed maturity securities and alternative investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Fixed maturity investments and alternative investments, which are reported at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet, represent the majority of our total cash and invested assets. Fair value prices for all securities in the fixed maturities portfolio are independently provided by both the Company’s investment custodian and its investment managers, which each utilize nationally recognized independent pricing services. The Company records the unadjusted price provided by the investment custodian and the Company’s validation process includes, but is not limited to: (i) comparison to the price provided by the investment manager, with significant differences investigated; (ii) quantitative analysis (e.g., comparing the quarterly return for each managed portfolio to its target benchmark, with significant differences identified and investigated); (iii) evaluation of methodologies used by external parties to calculate fair value; and (iv) comparing the price to its knowledge of the current investment market. Investments in alternative investments comprise a portfolio of limited partnerships and stock investments in trading entities, or funds, which invest in a wide range of financial products. The units of account that are fair valued are our interest in the funds and not the underlying holdings of such funds. Thus, the inputs we use to value our investment in each of the funds may differ from the inputs used to value the underlying holdings of such funds. These funds are stated at fair value which ordinarily will be the most recently reported net asset value as advised by the fund manager, where the fund’s underlying holdings can be in various quoted and unquoted investments. We believe the reported net asset value represents the fair value market participants would apply to an interest in the fund. The fund managers value their underlying investments in accordance with policies established by each fund, as described in each of their financial statements and offering memoranda. During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, for example mortgage backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. In addition, there may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a significant and negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Unexpected volatility or illiquidity associated with our alternative investment portfolio or in the financial markets could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct business. Although we intend to reduce our target allocation to alternative investments to approximately 10-15% of total invested assets, our investment guidelines permit us to invest up to 15% of our investment portfolio in an alternative investment portfolio, which we principally invest through Max Diversified. Max Diversified invests in various investment funds, which follow investment strategies that involve investing in a broad range of investments, some of which may be volatile. We invest the remainder of our alternative investment portfolio through Max Bermuda, which makes strategic investments in 35 Table of Contents reinsurance companies. Although we believe that our investment portfolio assists us in maintaining low overall volatility, the risks associated with our alternative investment portfolio may be substantially greater than the risks associated with fixed maturities investments. Further, because many of the alternative investment funds in which we invest impose limitations on the timing of withdrawals, or may suspend withdrawals for a period of time, we may be unable to withdraw our investment from a particular alternative investment fund on a timely basis. Unexpected volatility or illiquidity associated with our alternative investment portfolio could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct business. The success of our investment strategy is also affected by general economic conditions, including volatility in interest rates and the price of securities. Unexpected volatility or illiquidity in the financial markets could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct business. Deterioration in the public debt and equity markets could lead to additional investment losses. The prolonged and severe disruptions in the public debt and equity markets, including among other things, widening of credit spreads, bankruptcies and government intervention in a number of large financial institutions, have resulted in significant realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred realized and unrealized investment losses, as described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7 of this report. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, through the date of this report, conditions in the public debt and equity markets have continued to deteriorate and pricing levels have continued to decline. We continue to closely monitor current market conditions and evaluate the long term impact of this recent market volatility on all of its investment holdings. Depending on market conditions, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a significant and negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. In addition, our reinsurers and retrocessionaires may be affected by such developments in the financial markets, which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities (which include structured securities such as commercial mortgage-backed securities and residential mortgage backed securities or other high yielding bonds) or reinsurance counterparties, could adversely affect the value of our investments, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. Such defaults could have a significant and negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, the underlying assets supporting our structured securities may deteriorate causing these securities to incur losses. Our investment portfolio includes investment securities in the financial services sector that have experienced defaults recently. Further defaults could have a significant and negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The failure of our investment managers to perform their services in a manner consistent with our expectations and investment objectives, or the termination of our agreements with one or more of these investment managers, could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct business. We have entered into an investment management agreement with General Re New England Asset Management, Inc., Conning Asset Management, Asset Allocation and 36 Table of Contents Management, Deutsche Investment Management Americas Inc., Credit Agricole Asset Management and Hyperion Brookfield Asset Management, Inc., to manage portions of our aggregate fixed maturities portfolio. We have also entered into a customer agreement and trading authorization contract with Alstra, to act as a fund of funds advisor for our alternative investment portfolio invested through Max Diversified. Additionally, each underlying alternative investment fund manager has discretionary authority over the portion of our underlying alternative investment portfolio that it manages. As a result, the aggregate performance of our investment portfolio depends to a significant extent on the ability of our investment managers, and the investment managers of each underlying alternative investment fund, to select and manage appropriate investments. We cannot assure you that any or all of these investment managers will be successful in meeting our investment objectives, or that these investment managers will not terminate their respective agreements with our company. The failure of these investment managers to perform their services in a manner consistent with our expectations and investment objectives, or the termination of our agreements with one or more of these investment managers, could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct our business. Our investment portfolios are managed by outside managers, therefore we do not directly control individual trading activity. Our investment managers are contractually obligated to follow our investment guidelines, including requiring consent before selling any fixed maturity securities. However, we cannot assure you as to how our assets will be allocated among different securities or as to our level of risk exposure. Further, while the securities in our fixed maturities portfolio are all investment grade when originally purchased, these securities are still subject to credit risk, interest rate risk and currency risk. The volatility of our loss claims may force us to liquidate securities, which may cause us to incur capital losses. Investment losses could significantly decrease our book value, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. Our risk of losses is more fully described under “—Deterioration in the public debt and equity markets could lead to additional investment losses.” The success of our investment strategy is also affected by general economic conditions, including volatility in interest rates and the price of securities. Unexpected volatility or illiquidity in the financial markets could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct business. Our investment portfolio may be subject to political risk. Our investments, in both our alternative investment and fixed income portfolio, may be exposed to political risk to the extent that our investment advisors and underlying funds, on our behalf and subject to our investment guidelines, trade securities that are listed on various US and non-US exchanges and markets. The government in any of these jurisdictions could impose restrictions, regulations or permanent measures, which may have a significant and negative impact on the ability of our advisors to implement our fixed maturities or alternative investment strategies. Members of our board of directors may have conflicts of interests. Mr. Zack Bacon III, a member of our board of directors and its Finance and Investment Committee, is also a principal of Alstra. Given Alstra’s role as the fund advisor of Max Diversified, Mr. Bacon may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our shareholders generally. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulation of Our Company The regulatory systems under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a significant and negative effect on our business. General. Our subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations in locales where we currently engage or intend to engage in business, or we may only be able to do so at a significant cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to reinsurance and insurance companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in loss of revenue, fines or other sanctions to us. In addition, changes in laws or regulations to which our subsidiaries are subject could have a significant and negative effect on our business. Max Bermuda. Generally, Bermuda insurance statutes and regulations applicable to Max Bermuda are less restrictive than those that would be applicable to Max Bermuda if it was subject to the insurance laws of any state in the United States. In the past, there have been Congressional and other initiatives in the United States regarding proposals to supervise and regulate insurers domiciled outside the United States. If in the future Max Bermuda became subject to any insurance laws of the United States or any state thereof or of any other jurisdiction, we cannot assure you that we would be able to comply with these laws or that complying with these laws would not significantly and negatively affect our business or results of operations. Max Specialty and Max America. Max Specialty is licensed in Delaware as a property and casualty insurer and is currently listed or authorized as an eligible surplus lines insurer in 49 states which permits it to conduct business in all 50 U.S. states. Max America is licensed as a property and casualty insurer in all 50 U.S. states. Our business is subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision in each of these jurisdictions. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which Max Specialty and Max America are domiciled require, among other things, that Max Specialty and Max America maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, meet solvency standards and submit to periodic examinations of its financial condition. Specifically, Max USA and its subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by state laws, including the laws of their states of domicile (Delaware and Indiana). The risk-based capital standards, or RBC standards, based upon the Risk-Based Capital Model Act adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, require Max USA and its subsidiaries to report their results of RBC calculations to state insurance departments and the NAIC. These RBC standards provide for different levels of regulatory attention depending upon the ratio of an insurance company’s total adjusted capital, as calculated in accordance with NAIC guidelines, to its authorized control level RBC limits. These laws and regulations also sometimes restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. These statutes, regulations and policies may also restrict the ability of Max Specialty or Max America to write insurance policies, to make certain investments and to distribute funds. The purpose of insurance laws and regulations generally is to protect insureds, not our creditors or shareholders. Compliance with insurance statutes and regulations or securing appropriate exemptions from these statutes and regulations may present challenges to Max Specialty and Max America. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on Max Specialty’s and Max America’s ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which Max Specialty or Max America conduct business and could subject us to fines and other sanctions. Any failure to meet applicable RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject Max USA or its subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business or engaging in finance activities, state supervision or liquidation. Any changes in existing RBC requirements or minimum statutory 38 Table of Contents capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we might be unable to do. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which Max Specialty and Max America are subject could have an adverse effect on their business. Moreover, the NAIC, which is the organization of insurance regulators from the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and the 4 U.S. territories, as well as the state insurance regulators, regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations. Max at Lloyd’s. The business of the Syndicates is subject to regulation by the FSA, as established by the FSA through its regulation of the managing agent of the Syndicates and its regulation of the Society of Lloyd’s itself. Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, the FSA has broad powers of intervention. The FSA requires that the managing agent of the Syndicates carries out a capital assessment of the Syndicates in order to determine whether any additional capital should be held by the Syndicates on account of any particular risks arising from its business or operational infrastructure. This assessment (known as an “individual capital assessment”) is reviewed and may be challenged by Lloyd’s. The business of the Syndicates is also subject to regulation by the Council of Lloyd’s, and both the Max Corporate Vehicles and Max at Lloyd’s, are also subject to the rules imposed under regulations and byelaws made, and amended from time to time, by the Council of Lloyd’s under powers conferred on it by Lloyd’s Act 1982. Under these rules, Lloyd’s prescribes, in respect of its managing agents and corporate members, certain minimum standards relating to their management and control, solvency and various other requirements. The FSA monitors the Lloyd’s market to ensure that managing agents’ compliance with the systems and controls prescribed by Lloyd’s enables those managing agents to comply with its relevant requirements. If it appears to the FSA that either Lloyd’s is not fulfilling its regulatory responsibilities, or that managing agents are not complying with the applicable regulatory sections or market requirements prescribed by Lloyd’s, the FSA may exercise broad powers of intervention. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or diverging regulatory guidance by the FSA and Lloyd’s could have a significant and negative effect on our business. Max Europe. Our operating subsidiaries, Max Insurance Europe and Max Re Europe, are subject to regulation by the IFSRA. Max Insurance Europe must comply with the Irish Insurance Acts 1909 to 2000, regulations promulgated thereunder, regulations relating to insurance business promulgated under the European Communities Act 1972, the Irish Central Bank Acts 1942 to 1998 as amended, regulations promulgated thereunder and directions and guidelines, and codes of conduct, issued by IFSRA (the Insurance Acts and Regulations). Max Re Europe must comply with the European Communities (Reinsurance) Regulations, 2006 and rules made thereunder and insofar as relevant to reinsurance the Irish Insurance Acts 1909 to 2000, regulations promulgated thereunder, regulations relating to reinsurance business promulgated under the European Communities Act 1972, the Irish Central Bank Acts 1942 to 1998 as amended, regulations promulgated thereunder and directions, papers and guidelines and codes of conduct issued by IFSRA. Failure to meet with regulations promulgated by the IFSRA could lead to severe regulatory action. Other. We do not believe we currently, nor do we intend to, maintain an office or solicit, advertise, settle claims or conduct other insurance activities in any jurisdiction other than where we are properly authorized or admitted. However, we cannot assure you that insurance regulators in a jurisdiction in which we are not licensed will not review our activities or, that if there were such a review, that they would not be successful in claiming that we are subject to the licensing requirements of the particular jurisdiction. If we were to become subject to the laws and regulations of any other jurisdiction in the future, we may consider various alternatives to our operations, including: • modifying or restricting the manner in which we conduct our business in order to avoid being subject to, and the necessity of complying with, the laws and regulations; or • obtaining licenses to enable us to transact reinsurance or insurance in the particular jurisdiction. 39 Table of Contents Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action. Max USA and its subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by state laws, including the laws of their states of domicile (Delaware and Indiana). The risk-based capital standards, or RBC standards, are based upon the Risk-Based Capital Model Act adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, require Max USA and its subsidiaries to report their results of RBC calculations to state insurance departments and the NAIC. These RBC standards provide for different levels of regulatory attention depending upon the ratio of an insurance company’s total adjusted capital, as calculated in accordance with NAIC guidelines, to its authorized control level RBC limits. In addition, Max USA and its subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital requirements imposed under the laws of some of the states in which it conducts business. Max Bermuda is also subject to subject to risk-based capital standards and minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Generally, reinsurers are required to hold capital determined in part using the Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirement or an alternative model approved by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Max Insurance Europe is required to maintain statutory reserves, particularly in respect of underwriting liabilities and a solvency margin as provided for in the Insurance Acts and Regulations. Assets constituting statutory reserves must comply with admissibility, diversification, localization and currency matching rules. Statutory reserves must be actuarially certified annually. Max Re Europe is required to maintain statutory reserves, particularly in respect of underwriting liabilities and a solvency margin as provided for in the European Communities (Reinsurance) Regulations, 2006. Assets constituting statutory reserves must comply with certain principles including obligations to diversify the assets, to secure sufficiency, liquidity, security, quality, profitability and currency matching of investments. Statutory reserves must be actuarially certified annually. Max at Lloyd’s underwriting activities are regulated by the FSA as well as being subject to the Lloyd’s “franchise.” Both the FSA and Lloyd’s have powers to remove their respective authorization to manage Lloyd’s syndicates. Lloyd’s approves annually the business plan of each of the Syndicates along with any subsequent material changes, and the amount of capital required to support those plans. The FSA requires that the managing agent of the Syndicates carries out a capital assessment of the Syndicates in order to determine whether any additional capital should be held by the Syndicates on account of any particular risks arising from its business or operational infrastructure. This assessment (known as an “individual capital assessment”) is reviewed and may be challenged by Lloyd’s. Any failure to meet applicable requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject us to further examination or corrective action by regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business or engaging in finance activities, supervision or liquidation. Further, any changes in existing risk based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we might be unable to do. Political, regulatory and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business. The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework is subject to heavy scrutiny by the U.S. and individual state governments as well as an increasing number of international authorities. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of 40 Table of Contents policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders. Increasingly, governmental authorities in both the United States and worldwide seem to be interested in the potential risks posed by the insurance and reinsurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. While we do not believe these inquiries have identified meaningful new risks posed by the insurance and reinsurance industry, and we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, we believe it is likely there will be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future. For example, the U.S. federal government has increased its scrutiny of the insurance regulatory framework in recent years, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that will alter and likely increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC regularly reexamines existing laws and regulations. For example, we could be adversely affected by proposals to: • provide insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we target, such as the legislation enacted in Florida in early 2007; • require our participation in industry pools and guaranty associations; • increasingly mandate the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies; or • disproportionately benefit the companies of one country over those of another. The growth of our primary insurance business, which is regulated more comprehensively than reinsurance, increases our exposure to adverse political, judicial and legal developments. Moreover, our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that our principal operating company is domiciled in, and operate exclusively from, Bermuda. For example, Bermuda, a small jurisdiction, may be disadvantaged in participating in global or cross border regulatory matters as compared with larger jurisdictions such as the United States or the leading European Union countries. In addition, Bermuda, which is currently an overseas territory of the United Kingdom, may consider changes to its relationship with the United Kingdom in the future. These changes could significantly and negatively affect Bermuda’s position in respect of future regulatory initiatives, which could adversely impact us commercially. Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results. Unanticipated developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if it is required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net income, net equity, and other relevant financial statement line items. In particular, recent guidance and ongoing projects put in place by standard setters globally have indicated a possible move away from the current insurance accounting models toward more “fair value” based models which could introduce significant volatility in the earnings of insurance industry participants. Furthermore, rules relating to certain accounting practices in the financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance industry are currently being reviewed by applicable regulatory bodies and any changes required by that review could have a material effect on the reported operating results and financial condition of the industry or particular market participants. The reinsurance to close of an underwriting year at Lloyd’s does not discharge the liability of the members of the reinsured syndicate. The reinsurance to close of an underwriting year on which a corporate member participates does not legally discharge the member from liability for the insurance 41 Table of Contents obligations of the underwriting year. Instead, it provides to the member a full indemnity from the reinsuring underwriting year in respect of these obligations. Therefore, even after all the underwriting years on which a member has participated have been reinsured to close, the member is required to stay in existence and to remain a non-underwriting member of Lloyd’s. Accordingly, although Lloyd’s will release the member’s Funds at Lloyd’s, there nevertheless continues to be an administrative and financial burden for corporate members between the time of reinsurance to close of the underwriting years on which they participated and the time their insurance obligations are extinguished. Continued or increased levies by Lloyd’s for the Lloyd’s Central Fund and cash calls for trust fund deposits would materially and adversely affect us. We participate in Lloyd’s through the Syndicates. Whenever any member of Lloyd’s is unable to pay its debts to policyholders or to meet certain other obligations, these debts or obligations may be payable by the Lloyd’s Central Fund. The Lloyd’s Central Fund protects Lloyd’s policyholders against the failure of a member of Lloyd’s to meet its obligations. The Central Fund is a mechanism that, in effect, “mutualizes” unpaid liabilities among all members, whether individual or corporate. The fund is available to back Lloyd’s policies issued after 1992. Lloyd’s requires members to contribute to the Central Fund in the form of an annual contribution and by making, through the syndicates on which they participate, annual subordinated loans to Lloyd’s whose proceeds are held in the Central Fund. The Council of Lloyd’s has discretion to require members to make further Central Fund contributions of up to 3% of their underwriting capacity in any one year. Policies issued in syndicate years that have not been closed before 1993 have been reinsured by Equitas, an independent insurance company authorized by the FSA. However, if Equitas were to fail or otherwise be unable to meet all of its obligations the Central Fund might be applied to meet liabilities to policyholders (generally following prior approval of members of Lloyd’s in general meeting). In that case, the Council of Lloyd’s may resolve to impose a special or additional levy on the existing members, effectively requiring them to fund the performance of those obligations. Additionally, Lloyd’s insurance and reinsurance business is subject to local regulation. Regulators in the United States require Lloyd’s to maintain certain minimum deposits in trust funds as protection for policyholders in the United States. These deposits may be used to cover liabilities in the event of a major claim arising in the United States and Lloyd’s may require the MCCs to satisfy cash calls to meet claims payment obligations and to maintain minimum trust fund amounts. The failure of Lloyd’s to satisfy the FSA’s solvency requirements could result in limitations on our ability to underwrite business. The FSA requires Lloyd’s to satisfy an annual solvency test and to maintain solvency on a continuous basis. The solvency position of each member, and of Lloyd’s as a whole, is monitored on a regular basis. The solvency requirement in essence measures whether Lloyd’s has sufficient assets in the aggregate to meet all outstanding liabilities of its members, both current and in run-off, plus a margin of solvency. If Lloyd’s fails to satisfy the test in any year, the FSA may require Lloyd’s to cease trading and/or its members to cease or reduce underwriting. An increase in the charges paid by Max at Lloyd’s and the Max Corporate Capital Vehicles to participate in the Lloyd’s market could adversely affect their financial and operating results. Lloyd’s imposes a number of charges on businesses operating in the Lloyd’s market, including, for example, annual subscriptions and central fund contributions for members and policy signing charges. The bases and amounts of charges may be varied by Lloyd’s and could adversely affect Max at Lloyd’s and the Max Corporate Capital Vehicles. 42 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Shares Our common shares are subject to limitations on ownership and voting rights. Under our bye-laws, our directors or their designees are authorized to decline to register any transfer of our common shares if they have any reason to believe that such transfer would result in a shareholder owning, directly or indirectly, 9.5% or more of our common shares. Similar restrictions apply to issuances and repurchases of our common shares by us. Our directors or their designees also may, in their absolute discretion, decline to register the transfer of any common shares if they have reason to believe that such transfer may expose us, our subsidiaries, any shareholder or any person ceding insurance to us to adverse tax or regulatory treatment in any jurisdiction. Our board of directors expects to apply these restrictions fully except with respect to the purchase and sale of our common shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Although our board of directors will not decline to register any transfer of our common shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, it will require the transferee to surrender the common shares to an agent designated by the board if the transfer results in the transferee owning, directly or indirectly, 9.5% or more of any class of our capital stock or causes our board to have reason to believe that the transfer may expose us, any subsidiary or shareholder or any person insured or reinsured or proposing to be insured or reinsured to adverse tax or regulatory treatment in any jurisdiction. A transferor of our common shares will be deemed to own those shares for dividend, voting and reporting purposes until a transfer of such common shares has been registered on our Register of Members. We are authorized to request information from any holder or prospective acquiror of our common shares as necessary to effect registration of any such transaction and may decline to register any such transaction if complete and accurate information is not received as requested. In addition, our bye-laws generally provide that any shareholder owning, directly or by attribution, 9.5% or more of our common shares will have the voting rights attached to such common shares reduced so that it may not exercise more than approximately 9.5% or more of the total voting rights. Because of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the rules of the SEC regarding determination of beneficial ownership, this requirement may have the effect of reducing the voting rights of a shareholder whether or not that shareholder directly holds of record 9.5% or more of our common shares. Further, our directors or their designees have the authority to request from any shareholder certain information for the purpose of determining whether that shareholder’s voting rights are to be reduced. Failure to respond to such a notice, or submitting incomplete or inaccurate information, gives the directors or their designees discretion to disregard all votes attached to such shareholder’s common shares. Furthermore, applicable U.S. state insurance laws prevent any person from acquiring control of us, Max USA, Max Specialty or Max America, unless the person has filed a notification with the specified information with the applicable state insurance commissioner and has obtained his approval. Under the Delaware and Indiana insurance holding company system laws, acquiring 10% or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or any of its parent companies is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting securities of Max Capital without the prior approval of the Delaware or Indiana Insurance Commissioner will be in violation of these laws and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the applicable state insurance commissioner. In addition, many U.S. state insurance laws require prior notification of state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove a change of control, they authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of Max Capital may require prior notification in those that have adopted pre-acquisition notification laws. 43 Table of Contents U.S. persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Bermuda Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Set forth below is a summary of certain significant provisions of the Bermuda Companies Act, including modifications adopted pursuant to our bye-laws, applicable to us which differ in certain respects from provisions of Delaware corporate law. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. Interested Directors. Bermuda law provides that if a director has a personal interest in a transaction to which the company is also a party and if the director discloses the nature of this personal interest at the first opportunity, either at a meeting of directors or in writing to the directors, then the company will not be able to declare the transaction void solely due to the existence of that personal interest and the director will not be liable to the company for any profit realized from the transaction. In addition, Bermuda law and our bye-laws provide that, after a director has made the declaration of interest referred to above, he is allowed to be counted for purposes of determining whether a quorum is present and to vote on a transaction in which he has an interest, unless disqualified from doing so by the chairman of the relevant board meeting. Under Delaware law such transaction would not be voidable if: • the material facts as to such interested director’s relationship or interests are disclosed or are known to the board of directors and the board in good faith authorizes the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors; • such material facts are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote on such transaction and the transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the majority of shares entitled to vote thereon; or • the transaction is fair as to the corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified. Under Delaware law, such interested director could be held liable for a transaction in which such director derived an improper personal benefit. Mergers and Similar Arrangements. The amalgamation of a Bermuda company with another company or corporation (other than certain affiliated companies) requires the amalgamation agreement to be approved by the company’s board of directors and by its shareholders. We may, with the approval of a majority of votes cast at a general meeting of our shareholders at which a quorum is present, amalgamate with another Bermuda company or with a body incorporated outside Bermuda. In the case of an amalgamation, a shareholder may apply to a Bermuda court for a proper valuation of such shareholder’s shares if such shareholder is not satisfied that fair value has been paid for such shares. Under Delaware law, with certain exceptions, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all the assets of a corporation must be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. Under Delaware law, a stockholder of a corporation participating in certain major corporate transactions may, under certain circumstances, be entitled to appraisal rights pursuant to which such stockholder may receive cash in the amount of the fair value of the shares held by such stockholder (as determined by a court) in lieu of the consideration such stockholder would otherwise receive in the transaction. Shareholders’ Suit. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in many United States jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected 44 Table of Contents to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of the company to remedy a wrong done to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of our memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The winning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action. Our bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in the right of the company, against any director or officer for any act or failure to act in the performance of such director’s or officer’s duties, except with respect to any fraud or dishonesty of such director or officer. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to stockholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action. Indemnification of Directors. We may indemnify our directors or officers in their capacity as directors or officers of any loss arising or liability attaching to them by virtue of any rule of law in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to us other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty. Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. There are anti-takeover provisions contained in our bye-laws that could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management or delay or prevent the sale of our company, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in our management or a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, they may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. For example, the board of directors’ authority as expressed in the bye-laws permits the board to issue up to 20,000,000 preferred shares and to fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders. The issuance of preferred shares may delay or prevent a change in control transaction by making it more difficult for a bidder to acquire enough votes to influence or control our board of directors and the management of our company. Our bye-laws contain other provisions that could have a similar effect, including: • election of our directors is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year; • shareholders have limited ability to remove directors; • shareholders must give advance notice to nominate directors at shareholder meetings; • the total voting power of any U.S. shareholder owning 9.5% or more of our common shares is automatically reduced to less than 9.5% of the total voting power of our capital stock, unless the reduction is otherwise waived by the unanimous consent of our board of directors; and 45 Table of Contents • our directors may, in their absolute discretion, decline to register the transfer of any common shares if they believe that the transfer may expose us, any subsidiary, shareholder or client to adverse tax or regulatory treatment or if they believe that registration of the transfer under any federal or state securities law or under the laws of any other jurisdiction is required and the registration has not yet been effected. A shareholder may be required to sell its shares of Max Capital. Our bye-laws provide that we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell its common shares for their fair market value to us, to other shareholders or to third parties if our board of directors determines that ownership of our common shares by such shareholder may result in adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders and that such sale is necessary to avoid or cure such adverse consequences. You may have difficulty effecting service of process on us or enforcing judgments against us in the United States. We are incorporated pursuant to the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. Accordingly, we have been advised that there is doubt as to whether: • a holder of our common shares would be able to enforce, in the courts of Bermuda, judgments of U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws; • a holder of our common shares would be able to bring an original action in the Bermuda courts to enforce liabilities against us or our directors and officers who reside outside the United States, based solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. We have also been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Further, certain remedies available under U.S. federal and state laws, including U.S. federal securities laws, may not be available under Bermuda law. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments. Risks Related to Taxation Max Capital and its non-U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation. If Max Capital or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, that entity could be subject to U.S. income and branch profits tax on all or a portion of the income that is effectively connected with such trade or business. We intend to operate in a manner such that neither Max Capital nor any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, other than the Max Corporate Capital Vehicles (which are considered to have a taxable presence in the United States pursuant to a closing agreement between the IRS and the Corporation of Lloyd’s), MCS Ireland and MCS BDA , will be treated as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States. Accordingly, we do not believe that Max Capital or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, other than the Max Corporate Capital Vehicles, MCS Ireland and MCS BDA, are or will be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on net income. However, this determination is essentially factual in nature, and there are no definitive standards provided by the Internal Revenue Code, regulations or court decisions as to what activities constitute being engaged in a trade or 46 Table of Contents business within the United States. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, would not find that Max Capital or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, other than the Max Corporate Capital Vehicles, MCS Ireland and MCS BDA, is engaged in a trade or business in the United States. Any such income or branch profits tax could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Even if Max Capital and our non-U.S. subsidiaries, other than the Max Corporate Capital Vehicles, MCS Ireland and MCS BDA, are not treated as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States, we may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on certain fixed or determinable annual or periodical gains, profits, and income (such as dividends and certain interest on investments) derived from sources within the United States. In addition, we will be subject to a U.S. excise tax that is imposed on reinsurance and insurance premiums received with respect to risks or insureds located in the United States. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in our common shares. Legislation is periodically introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate some perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance and reinsurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United State but have certain U.S. connections. It is possible that legislative proposals could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders. Shareholders who are U.S. persons may recognize income for U.S. federal income tax purposes on our undistributed earnings. Shareholders who are U.S. persons may recognize income for U.S. federal income tax purposes on our undistributed earnings if we are treated as a passive foreign investment company or a controlled foreign corporation or if we have generated more than a permissible amount of related person insurance income. In addition, gain on the disposition of our common shares may be treated as dividend income. Passive Foreign Investment Company. In order to avoid significant potential adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for any U.S. person who owns our common shares, we must not constitute a passive foreign investment company in any year in which such U.S. person is a shareholder. Those consequences could include increasing the tax liability of the investor, accelerating the imposition of the tax and causing a loss of the basis step-up on the death of the investor. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is a passive foreign investment company for a taxable year if 75% or more of its income constitutes passive income or 50% or more of its assets produce passive income. Passive income generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income. However, passive income does not include income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a company that is predominantly engaged in an insurance business. This exception is intended to ensure that income derived by a bona fide insurance company is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. Currently, we do not believe that we maintain financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of our insurance business. If, because of a change in the business plan or for any other reason, we maintain excess financial reserves, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Although Max Capital’s insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, which we refer to as the Insurance Subsidiaries, expect to engage predominantly in insurance activities that involve significant risk transfer and do not expect to have financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of their insurance businesses, we could nonetheless be deemed to be a passive foreign investment company. We may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company if any Insurance Subsidiary engages in certain non-traditional insurance activities that do not involve sufficient transfer of risk or if any company maintains financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of its respective insurance business. In addition, there may be other circumstances that may cause us not to satisfy the exception for insurance companies. For example, the IRS may disagree with our interpretation of the current scope of the active 47 Table of Contents insurance company exception and successfully challenge our position that we qualify for the exception. In addition, the IRS may issue regulatory or other guidance that applies on either a prospective or retroactive basis under which we may fail to qualify for the active insurance company exception. While we do not believe that we are or will be a passive foreign investment company, we cannot assure shareholders that the IRS or a court will concur that we are not a passive foreign investment company with respect to any given year. If we were treated as a passive foreign investment company, the availability of the mark to market election is uncertain for shareholders who are U.S. persons. This election may under certain circumstances mitigate the negative tax consequences of an investment in a passive foreign investment company. Controlled Foreign Corporation. Each U.S. person who, directly, indirectly, or through attribution rules, owns 10% or more of our common shares should consider the possible application of the controlled foreign corporation rules. Each U.S. 10% shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation on the last day of the controlled foreign corporation’s taxable year generally must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro-rata share of the controlled foreign corporation’s subpart F income, even if the subpart F income has not been distributed. In general, a non-U.S. insurance company is treated as a controlled foreign corporation only if such U.S. 10% shareholders collectively own more than 25% of the total combined voting power or total value of the company’s capital stock for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any year. We believe that, because of the anticipated dispersion of share ownership among holders and because of the restrictions in our bye-laws on transfer, issuance or repurchase of our common shares, shareholders will not be subject to treatment as U.S. 10% shareholders of a controlled foreign corporation. In addition, because under our bye-laws no single shareholder is permitted to exercise 9.5% or more of the total combined voting power, unless such provision is waived by the unanimous consent of the board of directors, we believe that our shareholders should not be viewed as U.S. 10% shareholders of a controlled foreign corporation for purposes of the controlled foreign corporation rules. We cannot assure shareholders, however, that these rules will not apply to our shareholders. Related Person Insurance Income. If any Insurance Subsidiary’s related person insurance income determined on a gross basis were to equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds and persons related to such insureds were directly or indirectly to own more than 20% of the voting power or value of such Insurance Subsidiary’s capital stock, then a U.S. person who owns our common shares directly or indirectly on the last day of the taxable year most likely would be required to include in income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the U.S. person’s pro-rata share of such Insurance Subsidiary’s related person insurance income for the taxable year, determined as if such related person insurance income were distributed proportionately to such U.S. person at that date. Related person insurance income is generally underwriting profits and related investment income attributable to insurance or reinsurance policies where the direct or indirect insureds are direct or indirect U.S. shareholders or are related to such direct or indirect U.S. shareholders. We do not expect any Insurance Subsidiary will knowingly enter into insurance or reinsurance agreements in which, in the aggregate, the direct or indirect insureds are, or are related to, owners of 20% or more of our common shares. Currently, we do not believe that the 20% gross insurance income threshold has been met. However, we cannot assure shareholders that this is or will continue to be the case. Consequently, we cannot assure shareholders that a person who is a direct or indirect U.S. shareholder will not be required to include amounts in its income in respect of related person insurance income in any taxable year. If a U.S. shareholder is treated as disposing of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation that has related person insurance income and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the voting power or value of the company’s capital stock, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as dividend income to the extent of the U.S. 48 Table of Contents shareholder’s portion of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the U.S. shareholder owned the shares. In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the direct or indirect U.S. shareholder. These rules should not apply to dispositions of our common shares because Max Capital is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business and because proposed U.S. Treasury regulations applicable to this situation appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure shareholders, however, that the IRS will interpret the proposed regulations in this manner or that the proposed regulations will not be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our common shares. U.S. tax-exempt organizations who own our common shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our subpart F insurance income is allocated to the organization. In general, subpart F insurance income will be allocated to a U.S. tax-exempt organization if either we are a controlled foreign corporation and the tax-exempt shareholder is a U.S. 10% shareholder or there is related person insurance income and certain exceptions do not apply. Although we do not believe that any U.S. persons will be allocated subpart F insurance income, we cannot assure shareholders that this will be the case. Changes in U.S. tax laws may be retroactive and could subject us and/or U.S. persons who own our common shares to U.S. income taxation on our undistributed earnings. The tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business, is a passive foreign investment company, is a controlled foreign corporation, or has related party insurance income are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the passive foreign investment company rules to an insurance company but new regulations or pronouncements may be forthcoming. It is possible that the IRS may issue new regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules. We are not able to predict if, when or in what form any such guidance will be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which would have a significant and negative effect on our business and results of operations. Under current Bermuda law, there is no income, corporate, profits, withholding, capital gains or capital transfer tax payable by Max Capital, Max Bermuda, Max Managers or Max Diversified. Each of these entities has obtained from the Minister of Finance under The Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, an assurance that, in the event that Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance, then the imposition of any such tax shall not be applicable to any of these entities, their operations or their shares, debentures or other obligations, until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda taxes after March 28, 2016. Our business and results of operations would be significantly and negatively affected if we were to become subject to taxes in Bermuda. The impact of Bermuda’s commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is commonly referred to as the OECD, has published reports and launched a global dialogue among 49 Table of Contents member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 (as updated periodically), Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. U.S. legislative action or other changes in U.S. tax law might adversely affect us. The tax treatment of non-U.S. insurance companies and their U.S. insurance subsidiaries has been the subject of discussion and legislative proposals in the U.S. Congress and by the U.S tax authorities. We cannot assure you that interpretations or legislative action will not increase the amount of U.S. tax payable by our non-U.S. companies or our U.S. subsidiaries. If this happens, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and negatively affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments regarding our current or periodic reports. GLOSSARY OF SELECTED INSURANCE INDUSTRY TERMS AND NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Annual total rate of return Annual total rate of return is calculated by compounding the 12 consecutive monthly rates of return that are calculated by dividing monthly net performance by the beginning net asset value of that month. One is then subtracted from the product and the result is multiplied by 100. Capacity The percentage of shareholders’ equity, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing or able to place at risk. Case Reserves Loss reserves established for individual claims (and as reported by our cedants in the case of reinsurance). Combined Ratio The combined ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of losses, acquisition costs and general and administrative expenses by net premiums earned. A combined ratio below 100% indicates profitable underwriting prior to the consideration of investment income. Contract Binding A term to describe a distribution channel for writing insurance using a network of appointed wholesale general agents. The agents have binding authority for the insurer which allows them to quote and bind policies on behalf of the insurer. Excess and surplus lines insurance Any type of coverage that cannot be placed with an insurer admitted to do business in a certain jurisdiction. Risks placed in excess and surplus lines markets are often unique, unusual or difficult to place in conventional markets due to a shortage of capacity. 50 Table of Contents Annualized five year return Annualized five year return is calculated by compounding the 60 consecutive monthly rates of return that are calculated by dividing monthly net performance by the beginning net asset value of that month. One is then subtracted from the product and the result is multiplied by 100 and divided by 5. Incurred but not reported, or IBNR Incurred but not reported reserves, which include reserves for the following: • Pure incurred but not reported claims; • Future development on known claims. Loss ratio The loss ratio is calculated by dividing losses by net premiums earned. Loss reserve For an individual loss, an estimate of the amount the insurer expects to pay for the reported claim. For total losses, estimates of expected payments for reported and unreported claims. These may include amounts for claims expenses. Monthly net performance Monthly net performance is the total income generated by an investment in the form of interest or dividends and the change in value of that investment in the form of unrealized or realized gains and losses. Net operating income Net income excluding after-tax realized gains or losses on fixed maturities and after-tax foreign exchange gains or losses. We believe this non- GAAP measure provides a better indication of management performance as realized gains and losses on fixed maturities may fluctuate from period to period and foreign exchange gains and losses are typically outside the control of management. Net operating return on average shareholders’ equity Net operating return on average shareholders’ equity is calculated by dividing the net operating income by the average of the beginning and ending shareholders’ equity. This non-GAAP measure allows management to assess how the company has performed in terms of wealth generated for our shareholders. Non-admitted carrier A non-admitted carrier is not licensed by the state, but is allowed to do business in that state. Non-admitted carriers are not bound by most of the rate and form regulations imposed on standard market companies, allowing them the flexibility to change the coverage offered and the rate charged without time constraints and financial costs associated with the filing process. Rate of return Rates of return are calculated by dividing monthly net performance by the beginning net asset value of that month. One is then subtracted from the product and the result is multiplied by 100. Return on average shareholders’ equity Return on average shareholders’ equity is calculated by dividing net income by the average of the beginning and ending shareholders’ equity. This non-GAAP measure allows management to assess how we have performed in terms of wealth generated for our shareholders. Total return See Annual total rate of return. 51 Table of Contents 