ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our financial condition and performance are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors described below. We may amend or supplement the risk factors from time to time by other reports that we file with the SEC in the future. Our Businesses Are Subject to Competitive Pressures. Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of price, quality, service and/or brand name across the industries and markets served. Some of our competitors for certain products have greater sales, assets and financial resources than we do. Competitive pressures could affect prices we charge our customers or demand for our products, which could adversely affect our operating results. Demand for Our Products Is Sensitive to the Economic Conditions in the Markets We Serve. Demand for electrical products follows general economic conditions and is generally sensitive to activity in the commercial and residential construction markets, industrial production levels, electronic component production and spending by utilities for replacements, expansions and efficiency improvements. Demand for non-powered hand tools, assembly systems and industrial power tools is driven by employment levels, industrial activity and consumer spending. In addition, demand for industrial power tools is influenced by automotive and aerospace production. Reduced demand due to economic and market conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. Price Increases or Significant Shortages of Raw Materials and Components Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Costs and the Competitive Position of Our Products. Our major requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, aluminum, electronic components and plastics and, to a lesser degree brass, tin, lead, fiberglass, wood and insulating materials including transformer oil. We have multiple sources of supply for each of our major requirements, although there are limited sources of supply for electrical core steel and transformer oil that Cooper uses in electrical power transmission and distribution products. Significant shortages could disrupt the supply of raw materials or price increases could affect prices we charge our customers, our product costs, and the competitive position of our products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Operations and Supply Sources Located Outside the United States, Particularly Emerging Markets, Are Subject to Increased Risks. Our operating activities outside the United States contribute significantly to our revenues and earnings. Serving a global customer base and remaining competitive in the global market place requires that we place more production in countries other than the United States, including emerging markets, to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain a cost-efficient structure. In addition, we source a significant amount of raw materials and other components from third-party suppliers or joint-venture operations in low-cost countries. Our operations outside the United States could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns. Operations outside the United States are also subject to certain regulatory and economic uncertainties including trade barriers and restrictions on the exchange and fluctuations of currency. We believe that our operations in emerging markets such as China, India and Malaysia are subject to greater risks related to these political and economic uncertainties as compared to most countries where Cooper has operations. 7 Table of Contents Our Key Strategic Initiatives Affect Our Ability to Grow Revenues, Control Costs and Improve Productivity. Our operating model is built on a platform of key strategic initiatives that are designed to grow revenues, control costs and improve productivity. Our ability to execute and realize the expected benefits from our strategic initiatives affects our revenues and operating costs. Also, our operations could be disrupted by manufacturing rationalizations and system conversions relating to the implementation of the Enterprise Business System. We Engage in Acquisitions and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating These Businesses. We are a company that, from time to time, seeks to grow through strategic acquisitions. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to integrate the assets and personnel acquired in these transactions. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations and may not realize the degree or timing of the benefits that we anticipated from an acquisition. We Have Liability Exposure for Asbestos-Related Claims. We have owned businesses that manufactured and sold products that contained asbestos. We, therefore, have potential liability arising from individuals claiming illness from exposure to asbestos in those products. Insurance policies satisfy portions of claim settlements and related legal costs. We are also negotiating to participate in resolution of the bankruptcy proceedings of a previously-owned business that has significant obligations for claims related to asbestos. If we are unable to reach a settlement to participate in the resolution of the bankruptcy, we will adjust the estimates of our recorded liabilities and insurance recoveries related to the matter. Those adjustments may be significant. We Could Incur a Material Amount of Taxes if There Are Unfavorable Changes in the Tax Laws or Their Interpretation. On May 22, 2002 we reorganized Cooper and became a publicly traded Bermuda company. Among other benefits, the reorganization improved our worldwide effective tax rate and increased our cash flow. Changes in the tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations may occur, with prospective or retroactive effect, which could have material adverse tax consequences for us. Inability to Maintain Access to Capital Markets May Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Results. Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations may require access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. If we are unable to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse affect on our business and financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 