Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider the following risk factors, as well as other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, before deciding to invest in our common stock. The following factors affect our business and the industry in which we operate. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or which we currently consider immaterial may also have an adverse effect on our business. If any of the matters discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects could be materially adversely affected, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE PENDING MERGER If the merger is not completed, we may be forced to discontinue our operations. The merger is subject to a number of conditions that are outside of our control. We cannot assure you that these conditions will be satisfied or waived. Any amounts owing to PEDCO, which as of the date of this report totaled $280,336, must be repaid within ten days following the termination of the merger agreement. In addition, all amounts outstanding under our secured promissory notes with the Lender, which total approximately $1.2 million, must be repaid within 30 days following the termination of the merger agreement, or June 1, 2012 if the merger agreement is not closed by that time. Accordingly, if the merger is terminated, we will need to identify and consummate another strategic transaction or financing opportunity. Failure to do so in a timely manner would likely cause us to discontinue our operations. If the costs associated with the merger exceed the benefits, the post-merger company may experience adverse financial results, including increased losses. Our Company and PEDCO will incur significant transaction costs as a result of the merger, including legal and accounting fees. Actual transaction costs may substantially exceed our current estimates and may adversely affect the post-merger company’s financial condition and operating results. If the benefits of the merger do not exceed the costs associated with the merger, the post-merger company’s financial results could be adversely affected, resulting in, among other things, increased losses. Consummation of the merger will result in significant dilution to our existing shareholders. Upon consummation of the merger, our existing shareholders will hold, in total, only approximately 5% of the total number of outstanding shares of our capital stock. Furthermore, shares of our newly designated Series A preferred stock will be issued in the merger. The holders of the Series A preferred stock will have significant priorities in dividends, distributions, and voting. Specifically, the new Series A Preferred Stock will have the right to convert into shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis, will automatically convert into shares of common stock on the date that non-affiliate holders are able to resell the common stock issuable upon conversion of the new Series A Preferred Stock without limitation under Rule 144, will vote together with our common stock on an as converted basis and have a liquidation preference of $0.75 per share of new Series A Preferred Stock. After the merger, we may need to issue additional shares of capital stock to fund our business, which could lead to further dilution of our existing shareholders’ ownership interests. Following the merger, the existing shareholders of PEDCO will control our company. Following the merger, the existing shareholders of PEDCO will own a total of approximately 95% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock and 100% of our preferred stock. In addition, pursuant to the merger agreement, the current PEDCO Board of Directors will remain as the Board of Directors of the surviving company and PEDCO will appoint all of the members of our newly formed Board of Directors. This means that the existing management and shareholders of PEDCO will have the right, if they were to act together, to exercise control over us, including making decisions with respect to issuing additional shares, entering into mergers, asset sales, and other fundamental transactions, and further amending the terms of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Formation and Designation. -12- The existing holders of our Series A and B preferred stock will lose significant rights and privileges if the merger is consummated. Upon the filing of the amended and restated certificate of formation and designation, all of our outstanding shares of Series A and B preferred stock will convert into shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis. Upon such conversion, our existing holders of preferred stock will therefore lose the rights, preferences, privileges and rights associated with such shares. These rights include, with respect to the Series A preferred stock, the right to accrued dividends at the rate of 8% per annum and, in the event we receive a “Cash Settlement” (defined as an aggregate total cash settlement received by us, net of legal fees and expenses, in connection with our previously settled litigation proceedings in excess of $4 million), the right to receive payment on all outstanding dividends in cash or stock, at the holder’s option. Holders of our Series A preferred stock are also entitled to convert their shares into common stock at the rate of 2.5 shares of common stock for each share of Series A preferred stock converted. Holders of our Series B preferred stock have the right to consent to and approve Blast’s or any of its subsidiaries entry into any bankruptcy proceeding, consent to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator or trustee or the assignment by Blast or any of its subsidiaries for the benefit of any creditors. We cannot assure you that a market will exist for our common stock after the merger. Although our common stock is quoted on the OTC markets, a regular trading market for our securities may not be sustained in the future. Quotes for stocks listed on the OTC markets are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers and newspapers generally have very little coverage of stocks quoted solely on the OTC markets. Accordingly, prices for and coverage of securities quoted solely on the OTC markets may be difficult to obtain. In addition, stock quoted solely on the OTC markets tend to have a limited number of market makers and a larger spread between the bid and ask prices than those listed on the NYSE, AMEX or NASDAQ exchanges. All of these factors may cause holders of our common stock to be unable to resell their securities at or near their original offering price or at any price. Market prices for our common stock will be influenced by a number of factors, including: · changes in interest rates and the price of oil and natural gas; · competitive developments, including announcements by competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · variations in quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; · investor perceptions of our company after the merger with PEDCO; and · general economic and other national and international conditions. In the event the merger does not close, an alternative to the merger may not be available to us and, if available and completed, may be less attractive to our equity holders than the merger. The Company may be forced to file for bankruptcy or cease filing reports with the SEC. We believe that the completion of the merger is critical to our continuing viability. If the merger is not completed, an alternative transaction or restructuring arrangement may not be available, or if available, may not be on terms as favorable to our equity holders as the terms of the merger. If the merger is not effectuated, we will owe approximately $437,500 to PEDCO (payable within ten days of termination of the merger agreement) and approximately $1.2 million to the Lender, payable within 30 days following the termination of the merger agreement, or June 1, 2012 if the merger agreement is not closed by that time. If the merger is not completed, we will not have sufficient cash available to repay such amounts. As such, we may be forced to curtail or abandon our operations, liquidate our assets (notwithstanding the fact that the Lender holds a first priority security interest over substantially all of our assets), seek bankruptcy protection (if available) and/or cease filing reports with the SEC. In such case, an investment in our Company will likely decline in value or become worthless and shareholders of our Company may lose their entire investment. The current officers and directors of PEDCO exercise significant voting control over PEDCO and will therefore exercise significant voting control over Blast subsequent to the merger, including all corporate decisions and the appointment of directors. Following the merger, the officers and directors of PEDCO will be able to vote an aggregate of approximately 46% of our then outstanding voting stock. The officers and directors of PEDCO will therefore exercise significant control in determining the outcome of all corporate transactions or other matters, including the election of directors, mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, as well as the power to effectively prevent or cause a change in control. Any investor who purchases shares in our Company will be a minority shareholder and as such will have little to no say in the direction of our Company and the election of directors. Additionally, it will be difficult if not impossible for investors to remove our directors, which will enable such directors to control who serves as officers of our Company as well as any changes in our Board of Directors. -13- If approved, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Formation will reduce the number of votes needed to amend our Certificate of Formation or implement certain fundamental transactions, from two-thirds of all voting shares to a majority of such voting shares. Pursuant to Texas law and our existing Certificate of Formation, the approval of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting shares is required to amend our Certificate of Formation or to undertake certain other fundamental transactions, including, but not limited to winding up our Company. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Formation contemplated in connection with the merger will, among other things, change the vote required to amend the Certificate of Formation and/or to effect such fundamental transactions to a majority of the voting shares. Such amendments could include increasing the number of authorized shares of common and preferred stock and/or implementing a forward or reverse stock split. The reduction in the total voting shares needed to effect an amendment to the Certificate of Formation and/or a fundamental transaction may also allow shareholders who have voting control over the Company to more easily maintain such control or affect corporate actions which would not otherwise be approved. GENERAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY We have entered into a merger agreement that is subject to shareholder approval. In the event that we do consummate a transaction, merger and/or acquisition with a separate entity or individual(s) in the future, our majority shareholders will likely change and new shares of common or preferred stock could be issued resulting in substantial dilution to our then current shareholders. As a result, our new majority shareholders will likely change the composition of our Board of Directors and replace our current management. The new management will likely change our business focus and we can make no assurances that our new management will be able to properly manage our direction or that this change in our business focus will be successful. If we do enter into a transaction, merger or acquisition, and our new management fails to properly manage and direct our operations, we may be forced to scale back or abandon our operations, which will cause the value of our common stock to decline or become worthless. Additionally, as a result of any transaction we may take on significant additional debt or liabilities and/or take on the obligations of any entities or individuals we enter into transactions with. It is uncertain when we will have significant operating income or cash flow from operations sufficient to sustain our operations. As of March 31, 2012, our cash balance was approximately $3,100. However, our base business still consumes cash and we have to generate more revenues and/or funding to avoid running out of cash. Furthermore, our oil and gas operations will require additional funding in order for us to participate in exploration activities. If financing is available, it may involve issuing securities senior to our common stock or equity financings, which are dilutive to holders of our common stock. In addition, in the event we do not raise additional capital from conventional sources, such as our existing investors or commercial banks, there is a likelihood that our growth will be restricted and we may be forced to scale back or curtail our business plan. If we are unable to raise the additional funding, the value of our securities could become worthless and we may be forced to abandon our business plan. We owe $1.3 million to a third party investor, which funds we do not currently have, the repayment of which is secured by a security interest over substantially all of our assets and the payment of which is currently anticipated to be made through revenues generated from our properties, of which there can be no assurance. On February 24, 2011 (the “Closing”), Blast entered into a Note Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) and related agreements with the Lender, pursuant to which Blast sold an aggregate of $2,522,111 (the “Notes”) ($411,000 of which Notes were sold in April 2011, with the remainder sold at the Closing). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Blast agreed to undertake certain requirements and to certain restrictions while the Notes are outstanding. These requirements and restrictions, among other things, include: to continue to file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”); not pay any dividends, make any distributions or redeem any securities; not permit any liens on any of its assets (other than those already approved by the Lender) or incur any additional liabilities (unless subordinated to amounts owed to the Lender); not enter into any merger, sale or acquisition agreements; and maintain a minimum cash bank balance of $100,000, with some flexibility as it relates to funding costs for the Test Well (the "Requirements"). -14- The Notes accrue interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum, payable on the first day of each month beginning in March 2011, and have a maturity date of (i) thirty (30) days after the termination of the Merger Agreement, if the Merger Agreement is terminated before June 1, 2012, (ii) June 1, 2012, if the Effective Date of the Merger has not occurred by such date, (iii) August 2, 2012, or (iv) the date all obligations and indebtedness under such Notes are accelerated in accordance the terms and conditions of such Notes. Blast also agreed to pay the Lender an exit fee at such time as the Notes are paid in full of twelve percent (12%) of the amount of such repayment (the “Exit Fee”). The repayment of the amounts loaned to Blast by the Lender under the Notes (the “Loans”) was guaranteed by Blast’s wholly-owned subsidiaries Eagle Domestic Drilling Operations LLC (“Eagle”) and Blast AFJ, Inc. (“Blast AFJ”). Additionally, Blast, Eagle and Blast AFJ each entered into a Security Agreement in favor of the Lender, pursuant to which such parties provided the Lender a first priority security interest in all of their tangible and intangible assets, including equipment, intellectual property and personal and real property as collateral to secure the repayment of the Loans (the “Security Agreement”). As such, Blast will need to raise or generate additional funding in the future to repay the Loans. If Blast is unable to raise or generate sufficient funding to repay the Notes when due, or Blast is deemed in default of the Notes for failing to comply with the Requirements, among other reasons, the Lender has the right to declare the entire amount of the Notes due and payable and enforce its security interests under the Security Agreement. As such, in the event Blast defaults on the repayment of the Notes, the Lender may take control of substantially all of Blast's assets and Blast could be forced to curtail or abandon its business plan, which could cause any investment in Blast to become worthless. Shareholders may be diluted significantly through our efforts to obtain financing, satisfy obligations and/or complete acquisitions through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities. We have no committed source of financing. We may seek to use non-cash consideration to satisfy our obligations, including restricted shares of our common stock or other securities. Additionally, we may make acquisitions using our common stock or other securities as a means of payment for such acquisitions. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without action or vote of our shareholders (other than, where applicable, the approval of the holders of our preferred stock shareholders), to issue all or part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock and preferred stock with various preferences and other rights. These actions may result in substantial dilution of the ownership interests of existing shareholders, and dilute the book value of our common stock. We will need additional capital to conduct our operations and fund our business and our ability to obtain the necessary funding is uncertain. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing or other various means to fund our business or operations, including our Farmout Agreement with Solimar Energy LLC (as described above). Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. If we need to raise additional funds in the future by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result, and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. We may be unable to raise additional funds by issuing debt securities due to our high leverage and due to restrictive covenants contained in our senior debt, which may restrict our ability to expend or raise capital in the future. If outside funding is unavailable and we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from new business arrangements, we will be unable to continue in our current form and will be forced to restructure or seek creditor protection. If this were to happen, our results of operations and the value of our securities would be adversely affected. We have a limited operating history and our planned business and marketing strategies are not yet proven, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business performance. We have not yet been able to commercialize the capabilities of our applied jetting technology and are not conducting operations with the abrasive technology. We have no established basis to assure investors that our business or marketing strategies will be successful. Because we have a limited operating history, there is little historical financial data upon which to evaluate our business performance. You should consider the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of development, particularly companies with limited capital in a rapidly evolving market. These risks and difficulties include our ability to meet our debt service and capital obligations, develop a commercial milling or jetting process with our AFJ technology, attract and maintain a base of customers, provide customer support, personnel, and facilities to support our business, and respond effectively to competitive and technological developments. Our business strategy may not be successful or may not successfully address any of these risks or difficulties and we may not be able to generate future revenues. -15- Significant amounts of our outstanding shares of common stock are restricted from immediate resale but will be available for resale into the market in the near future, which could potentially cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. As of April 16, 2012, 71,425,905 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding and held by approximately 315 shareholders of record, including 1,150,000 approved but unissued shares arising from the 2005 class action settlement. Many of our outstanding shares of our common stock are “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Act”). As restricted shares, these shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement or under the requirements of Rule 144 or other applicable exemptions from registration under the Act and as required under applicable state securities laws. A sale under Rule 144 or under any other exemption from the Act, if available, or pursuant to registration of shares of common stock, may have a depressive effect upon the price of our common stock in any market that may develop. An excessive sale of our shares may result in a substantial decline in the price of our common stock, and limit our ability to raise capital, even if our business is doing well. Furthermore, the sale of a significant amount of securities into the market could cause the value of our securities to decline in value. Our principal stockholders can influence our corporate and management policies. Eric A. McAfee, Clyde Berg, and BMC, which both Mr. McAfee and Mr. Berg are deemed to beneficially own effectively control approximately 34.1% of our outstanding voting shares and have the ability, upon conversion of their outstanding notes payable upon notice of the Company of the setting of the record date for the shareholders meeting to approve the Merger Agreement (as described above under BMC Debt Conversion), to control up to 65.8% of our outstanding voting shares. Therefore, BMC has the ability to substantially influence all decisions made by us. Additionally, BMC’s control could have a negative impact on any future takeover attempts or other acquisition transactions. Because our officers and directors do not exercise majority voting control over us, our shareholders who are not officers and directors may be able to obtain a sufficient number of votes to choose who serves as our directors. Because of this, the current composition of our board may change in the future, which could in turn have an effect on those individuals who currently serve in management positions with us. If that were to happen, our new management could affect a change in our business focus and/or curtail or abandon our business operations, which in turn could cause the value of our securities, if any, to decline. Michael L. Peterson, Blast’s former Interim President and CEO and former board member, is also a director of Aemetis, Inc. (formerly AE Biofuels Inc.), a California-based vertically integrated biofuels company. The Chairman and CEO of Aemetis, Inc. is Eric McAfee. Mr. McAfee is also the managing partner for McAfee Capital, LLC and president of Berg McAfee Companies, LLC, both of which are significant shareholders of Blast. The fact that certain of our directors are also directors of entities affiliated with BMC could cause actual or perceived conflicts of interest between us and BMC and could cause the value for our securities to become devalued or worthless. If we are late in filing our Quarterly or Annual Reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission or a market maker fails to quote our common stock on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board for a period of more than four days, we may be de-listed from the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. Pursuant to Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) rules relating to the timely filing of periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), any OTCBB issuer which fails to file a periodic report (Form 10-Q or 10-K) by the due date of such report three times during any 24 month period is automatically de-listed from the OTCBB. Such removed issuer would not be re-eligible to be listed on the OTCBB for a period of one year, during which time any subsequent late filing would reset the one-year period of de-listing. Additionally, if a market maker fails to quote our common stock on the OTCBB for a period of more than four consecutive days, we will be automatically delisted from the OTCBB (similar as to how we were automatically delisted from the OTCBB in February 2011, which forced us to take actions to requote our common stock on the OTCBB in March 2011). If our shares are de-listed, our securities may become worthless and we may be forced to curtail or abandon our business plan. -16- Because our common stock is considered a “penny stock,” certain rules may impede the development of increased trading activity and could affect the liquidity for stockholders. Our common stock is subject to the SEC “penny stock rules.” These rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stock securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of penny stock securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the “penny stock rules” require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities, and, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information on the limited market in penny stocks. These rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity of our common stock in the secondary market. In addition, the penny-stock rules could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital in the future from offerings of our common stock. On July 7, 2005, the SEC approved amendments to the penny stock rules. The amendments provide that broker-dealers are required to enhance their disclosure schedule to investors who purchase penny stocks, and that those investors have an explicit “cooling-off period” to rescind the transaction. These amendments could place further constraints on broker-dealers’ ability to sell our securities. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, increased costs and risks as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, as well as rules and regulations implemented by the SEC. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of SOX and rules adopted by the SEC, have resulted in, and will continue to result in, increased costs to us as we respond to these requirements. Given the risks inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting is uncertain. If our internal controls are not designed or operating effectively, we may not be able to issue an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as required or we or our independent registered public accounting firm may determine that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. In addition, our registered public accounting firm may either disclaim an opinion as it relates to management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls or may issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and which could affect our ability to run our business as we otherwise would like to. New rules could also make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the coverage that is the same or similar to our current coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our board committees, and as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the total amount of the costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with these rules and regulations. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will continue to strain our limited financial and management resources. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses in connection with our status as a fully reporting public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. As such, our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure of controls and procedures. Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. -17- We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and therefore only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to our stockholders. We currently anticipate that we will retain all future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. In addition, the terms of our senior credit facility prohibit us from paying dividends and making other distributions. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may not occur, will provide a return to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock historically has been volatile. The market price of our common stock historically has fluctuated significantly based on, but not limited to, such factors as general stock market trends, announcements of developments related to our business, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, our ability or inability to generate new revenues, conditions and trends in the industries in which our customers are engaged. Our common stock is traded on the OTCBB under the symbol “BESV.” In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price fluctuations that have oftentimes been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Similarly, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly based upon factors unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates or international currency fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We currently have a sporadic, illiquid, volatile market for our common stock, and the market for our common stock may remain sporadic, illiquid, and volatile in the future. We currently have a highly sporadic, illiquid and volatile market for our common stock, which market is anticipated to remain sporadic, illiquid and volatile in the future and will likely be subject to wide fluctuations in response to several factors, including, but not limited to: · actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; · our ability or inability to generate revenues; · the number of shares in our public float; · increased competition; and · conditions and trends in the market for oil and gas and down-hole services. Furthermore, because our common stock is traded on the OTCBB, our stock price may be impacted by factors that are unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates or international currency fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Shareholders and potential investors in our common stock should exercise caution before making an investment in our Company, and should not rely on the publicly quoted or traded stock prices in determining our common stock value, but should instead determine the value of our common stock based on the information contained in our public reports, industry information, and those business valuation methods commonly used to value private companies. Our management chose to change the direction of our Company toward a new strategy of investing in oil producing properties. We are not an experienced oil and gas producer and will rely on the operational expertise of operators of the properties in which we invest. There may be inherent risks in such operations that we may not be able to predict or anticipate and therefore we cannot assure you that production volume, crude oil prices and operating expense assumptions used in our acquisition analysis will be achieved. -18- RISKS RELATED TO BLAST’S OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES Government regulation and liability for environmental matters may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Crude oil and natural gas operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of crude oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of crude oil and natural gas. There are federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of crude oil and natural gas, byproducts thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with crude oil and natural gas operations. In addition, we may inherit liability for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property we purchase or lease. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. We are also subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. The crude oil and natural gas reserves we will report in our SEC filings are estimates and may prove to be inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values. The reserves we will report in our filings with the SEC will only be estimates and such estimates may prove to be inaccurate because of these uncertainties. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves depend upon a number of variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas and assumptions concerning effects of regulations by governmental agencies, future crude oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and work-over and remedial costs. Some or all of these assumptions may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of crude oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected there prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. Crude oil and natural gas development, production and drilling and completing new wells are speculative activities and involve numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs. Our growth will be materially dependent upon the success of our planned future development program. Drilling for crude oil and natural gas and reworking existing wells involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · inability to obtain leases on economic terms, where applicable; · adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; · compliance with governmental requirements; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment. Drilling or reworking is a highly speculative activity. Hydraulic fracturing involves pumping a fluid with or without particulates into a formation at high pressure, thereby creating fractures in the rock and leaving the particulates in the fractures to ensure that the fractures remain open, thereby potentially increasing the ability of the reservoir to produce oil or gas. Horizontal drilling involves drilling horizontally out from an existing vertical well bore, thereby potentially increasing the area and reach of the well bore that is in contact with the reservoir. Our future drilling activities, if any, may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure would have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. The drilling and results for our future prospects may be particularly uncertain. We cannot assure you that our future projects, if any, can be successfully developed or that the wells will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive crude oil or natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control. -19- Crude oil and natural gas prices are highly volatile in general and low prices will negatively affect our financial results. Our future revenues, operating results, profitability, cash flow, future rate of growth and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital, as well as the carrying value of our properties, will be substantially dependent upon prevailing prices of crude oil and natural gas. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices also may reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that our properties can produce economically. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been very volatile, and such markets are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for crude oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for crude oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil and natural gas; · the level of consumer product demand; · weather conditions and natural disasters; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · political instability or armed conflict in oil producing regions; · the price and level of foreign imports; and · overall domestic and global economic conditions. It is extremely difficult to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in crude oil and natural gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations. Further, oil and gas prices do not move in tandem. Because of the inherent dangers involved in oil and gas exploration, there is a risk that we may incur liability or damages as we conduct our business operations, which could force us to expend a substantial amount of money in connection with litigation and/or a settlement. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating hazards and risks such as well blowouts, pipe failures, casing collapse, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, spills, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. These hazards and risks could result in substantial losses to us from, among other things, injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, cleanup responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property purchased and/or leased by us. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, the payment of which could reduce or eliminate the funds available for the purchase of properties and/or property interests, exploration, development or acquisitions or result in the loss of properties and/or force us to expend substantial monies in connection with litigation or settlements. As such, there can be no assurance that any insurance obtained by us in the future will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities. We cannot predict the availability of insurance or the availability of insurance at premium levels that justify our purchase. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operations. We may elect to self-insure if management believes that the cost of insurance, although available, is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, which could lead to any investment in us becoming worthless. -20- The market for oil and gas is intensely competitive, and as such, competitive pressures could force us to abandon or curtail our business plan. The market for oil and gas exploration and production services is highly competitive, and we only expect competition to intensify in the future. Numerous well-established companies are focusing significant resources on exploration and are currently competing with us for oil and gas opportunities. Additionally, there are numerous companies focusing their resources on creating fuels and/or materials which serve the same purpose as oil and gas, but are manufactured from renewable resources. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to successfully compete in the marketplace, we could be forced to curtail or even abandon our current business plan, which could cause the value of our securities to decline in value or become worthless. We may incur certain costs to comply with government regulations, particularly regulations relating to environmental protection and safety in the future. Our exploration, production and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels, as well as by governments and regulatory agencies, and are subject to interruption or termination by governmental and regulatory authorities based on environmental or other considerations. Moreover, we have incurred and will continue to incur costs in our efforts to comply with the requirements of environmental, safety and other regulations. Further, the regulatory environment in the oil and gas industry could change in ways that we cannot predict and that might substantially increase our costs of compliance and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Specifically, as an owner or lessee and operator of crude oil and natural gas properties, we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment. These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas. Moreover, we are subject to the United States (U.S.) Environmental Protection Agency's (U.S. EPA) rule requiring annual reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Changes in, or additions to, these regulations could lead to increased operating and compliance costs and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on GHG emissions and climate change issues. In addition to the U.S. EPA's rule requiring annual reporting of GHG emissions, we are also aware of legislation proposed by U.S. lawmakers to reduce GHG emissions. Additionally, there have been various proposals to regulate hydraulic fracturing at the federal level. Currently, the regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state level through permitting and other compliance requirements. Any new federal regulations that may be imposed on hydraulic fracturing could result in additional permitting and disclosure requirements (such as the reporting and public disclosure of the chemical additives used in the fracturing process) and in additional operating restrictions. Furthermore, such regulations could make our AFJ technology more expensive or obsolete. In addition to the possible federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, some states and local governments have considered imposing various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations, including requirements regarding casing and cementing of wells, testing of nearby water wells, restrictions on the access to and usage of water and restrictions on the type of chemical additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations. Such federal and state permitting and disclosure requirements and operating restrictions and conditions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, moreover, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing. We will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation, regulations and treaties in the areas where we operate to determine the impact on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. We are unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. -21- RISKS RELATED TO BLAST’S DOWN-HOLE SOLUTIONS BUSINESS One of our longer-term business strategies relies on the successful deployment of a new generation coiled tubing unit utilizing applied fluid jetting, which has not been well established in the energy service industry. Since we believe that we are among the first to apply the applied jetting techniques to the energy producing business, we cannot guarantee that our custom drilling rig design based on the applied fluid jetting (“AFJ”) concept will be adequate or that the applied jetting technology will stimulate additional oil and gas production. Accordingly, we may not achieve the desired results from application of this technology, which could cause a negative impact on the development of our business, including the possible impairment and write down of our AFJ assets. We may not realize the expected benefits of enhanced production or lower costs from our applied jetting technology. Many of the wells on which our AFJ technology might be used have been abandoned for some time due to low production volumes or other reasons. In some cases, we could experience difficulty in having the enhanced production reach the market due to the gathering field pipeline system’s disrepair resulting from the age of the fields, significant amounts of deterioration of the reservoirs in the abandoned wells or the reliability of the milling process. Our AFJ technology may not achieve enhanced production from every well drilled, or, if enhanced production is achieved initially, it may not continue for the duration necessary to achieve payout or reach the market on a timely basis. The failure to screen adequately and achieve projected enhancements could result in making the application of the technology uneconomic for us. Failure to achieve an economic benefit in the provision of this service would significantly impair the future application of this technology. Geological uncertainties may negatively impact the effectiveness of our applied jetting services. Oil and gas fields may be depleted and zones may not be capable of stimulation by our applied jetting technology due to geological uncertainties such as lack of reservoir drive or adequate well pressure. Such shortcomings may not be identifiable. The failure to avoid such shortcomings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have no issued patents for our technology and although we have filed a pending patent application, such patent application has not been approved to date. As a result, companies with products similar to ours may sue us in the future claiming our activities infringe on their patent rights. While we have filed a patent for our AFJ technology, such patent has not been approved or granted to date. In the event the patent application for our AFJ technology is not granted, we will not be able to stop other companies from lawfully practicing technology identical or similar to ours. If we are sued by another company claiming our activities infringe on their patent, and we are not able to prove the prior use of such technology, we could be forced to abandon our technology and/or expend substantial expenses in defending against another company’s claims. This could have a severely adverse effect on our revenues and could cause any investment in our Company to decline in value and/or become worthless. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 