Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. The risks described below are not only risks unique to our company. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition and general economic conditions. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. Factors That May Affect Future Results of Operations If we are unable to develop and commercialize new products, our financial condition will deteriorate. Profit margins for a pharmaceutical product generally decline as new competitors enter the market. As a result, our future success will depend on our ability to commercialize the product candidates we are currently developing, as well as develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. We currently have over 30 ANDAs pending with the FDA and over 70 product candidates under development. Successful development and commercialization of our product candidates will require significant investment in many areas, including research and development and sales and marketing, and we may not realize a return on those investments. In addition, development and commercialization of new products are subject to inherent risks, including: • failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • difficulty or impossibility of manufacture on a large scale; • prohibitive or uneconomical costs of marketing products; • inability to secure raw material or components from third-party vendors in sufficient quantity or quality or at a reasonable cost; • failure to be developed or commercialized prior to the successful marketing of similar or superior products by third parties; • lack of acceptance by customers; • impact of authorized generic competition; • infringement on the proprietary rights of third parties; • grant of new patents for existing products may be granted, which could prevent the introduction of newly-developed products for additional periods of time; and • grant to another manufacturer by the FDA of a 180-day period of marketing exclusivity under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Act, as patents or other exclusivity periods for brand name products expire. The timely and continuous introduction of new products is critical to our business. Our financial condition will deteriorate if we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize new products. If sales of our key products decline, our business may be adversely affected. Our top ten products comprised approximately 57% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our key products could lose market share or revenue due to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • lower prices offered on similar products by other manufacturers; • substitute or alternative products or therapies; 12 Table of Contents • development by others of new pharmaceutical products or treatments that are more effective than our products; • introduction of other generic equivalents or products which may be therapeutically interchanged with our products; • interruptions in manufacturing or supply; • changes in the prescribing practices of physicians; • changes in third-party reimbursement practices; and • migration of key customers to other manufacturers or sellers. Any factor adversely affecting the sale of our key products may cause our revenues to decline. If we or our suppliers are unable to comply with ongoing and changing regulatory standards, sales of our products could be delayed or prevented. Virtually all aspects of our business, including the development, testing, manufacturing, processing, quality, safety, efficacy, packaging, labeling, record-keeping, distribution, storage and advertising and promotion of our products and disposal of waste products arising from these activities, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA and the Department of Health and Humans Services Office of Inspector General (OIG). Our business is also subject to regulation in foreign countries. Compliance with these regulations is costly and time-consuming. Our manufacturing facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. For example, manufacturers of pharmaceutical products must comply with detailed regulations governing current good manufacturing practices, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance. We must spend funds, time and effort in the areas of production, safety, quality control and quality assurance to ensure compliance with these regulations. We cannot assure that our manufacturing facilities or those of our suppliers will not be subject to regulatory action in the future. Our products generally must receive appropriate regulatory clearance before they can be sold in a particular country, including the United States. We may encounter delays in the introduction of a product as a result of, among other things, insufficient or incomplete submissions to the FDA for approval of a product, objections by another company with respect to our submissions for approval, new patents by other companies, patent challenges by other companies which result in a 180-day exclusivity period, and changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development or during the regulatory approval process. The FDA has the authority to revoke drug approvals previously granted and remove from the market previously approved products for various reasons, including issues related to current good manufacturing practices for that particular product or in general. We may be subject from time to time to product recalls initiated by us or by the FDA. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, the revocation of a prior approval, or product recalls could impose significant costs on us and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. Our inability or the inability of our suppliers to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, consent decrees restricting or suspending our manufacturing operations, delay of approvals for new products, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of sales and criminal prosecution. Any of these or other regulatory actions could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. State pharmaceutical marketing compliance and reporting requirements may expose us to regulatory and legal action by state governments or other government authorities. In recent years, several states, including California, Vermont, Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico and West Virginia, in addition to the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to 13 Table of Contents establish marketing compliance programs and file periodic reports on sales, marketing, pricing and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and available guidance is limited. We are continuing to assess our compliance with these state laws. Unless we are in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties and could receive adverse publicity, all of which could harm our business. We may be required to change the labeling of our products if side effects or manufacturing problems are identified after the products are on the market. If side effects are identified after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and reformulation of products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of products, and changes to or re-approvals of our manufacturing facilities may be required, any of which could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. For example, a supplier recently initiated a recall of its heparin product due to increased adverse events associated with the product. After any of our products are approved for commercial use, we or regulatory bodies could decide that changes to our product labeling are required. Label changes may be necessary for a number of reasons, including the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy concerns by regulatory agencies or the discovery of significant problems with a similar product that implicates an entire class of products. Any significant concerns raised about the safety or efficacy of our products could also result in the need to reformulate those products, to conduct additional clinical trials, to make changes to our manufacturing processes, or to seek re-approval of our manufacturing facilities. Significant concerns about the safety and effectiveness of a product could ultimately lead to the revocation of its marketing approval. The revision of product labeling or the regulatory actions described above could be required even if there is no clearly established connection between the product and the safety or efficacy concerns that have been raised. The revision of product labeling or the regulatory actions described above could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. The manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, and if we or our suppliers encounter production problems, our business may suffer. Almost all of the pharmaceutical products we make are sterile, injectable drugs. We also purchase some such products from other companies. The manufacture of all our products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements and standards which govern both the manufacture of a particular product and the manufacture of these types of products in general. Problems may arise during their manufacture due to a variety of reasons including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to loss of the cost of raw materials and components used, lost revenue, time and expense spent in investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If such problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall costs may also be incurred. To the extent we experience problems in the production of our pharmaceutical products, this may be detrimental to our business, operating results and reputation. Additionally, we could incur additional costs if we fail to timely transfer products to our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility. Our markets are highly competitive and, if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenue will decline and our business will be harmed. The markets for injectable pharmaceutical products are highly competitive, rapidly changing and undergoing consolidation. Most of our products are generic injectable versions of brand name products that are still being marketed by proprietary pharmaceutical companies. The first company to market a generic product is often initially able to achieve high sales, profitability and market share with respect to that product. Prices, revenue and market size for a product typically decline, however, as additional generic manufacturers enter the market. 14 Table of Contents We face competition from major, brand name pharmaceutical companies as well as generic manufacturers such as Hospira, Inc., Bedford Laboratories, Baxter Laboratories (including Elkin-Sinn), SICOR Inc. (acquired by Teva Pharmaceuticals USA) and Mayne Pharma (acquired by Hospira, Inc.) and, in the future, increased competition from new, foreign competitors. Smaller and foreign companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaboration arrangements with large and established companies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater research and development, financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, regulatory and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of their products, receive greater resources and support for their products, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, more readily take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities, or otherwise more successfully market their products. Any reduction in demand for our products could lead to a decrease in prices, fewer customer orders, reduced revenues, reduced margins, reduced levels of profitability, or loss of market share. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our business and operating results. We face uncertainty related to pricing and reimbursement and health care reform. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other health care-related organizations. However, reimbursement by such payors is presently undergoing reform, and there is significant uncertainty at this time how this will affect sales of certain pharmaceutical products. There is possible U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement, including under Medicaid and Medicare, the importation of prescription drugs that are marketed outside the U.S. and sold at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries. Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental reimbursement legislation or programs govern drug coverage and reimbursement levels in the United States. Federal law requires all pharmaceutical manufacturers to rebate a percentage of their revenue arising from Medicaid-reimbursed drug sales to individual states. Generic drug manufacturers’ agreements with federal and state governments provide that the manufacturer will remit to each state Medicaid agency, on a quarterly basis, 11% of the average manufacturer price for generic products marketed and sold under abbreviated new drug applications covered by the state’s Medicaid program. For proprietary products, which are marketed and sold under new drug applications, manufacturers are required to rebate the greater of (a) 15.1% of the average manufacturer price or (b) the difference between the average manufacturer price and the lowest manufacturer price for products sold during a specified period. Both the federal and state governments in the United States and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation, rules and regulations designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care. Existing regulations that affect the price of pharmaceutical and other medical products may also change before any of our products are approved for marketing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any product we develop in the future. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and litigation has been filed against a number of pharmaceutical companies in relation to these issues. Additionally, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved injectable pharmaceutical products. Our products may not be considered cost effective or adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an adequate return on our investment. If we are unable to maintain our key customer arrangements, sales of our products and revenue would decline. Almost all injectable pharmaceutical products are sold to customers through arrangements with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs, and distributors. The majority of hospitals contract with the GPO of their 15 Table of Contents choice for their purchasing needs. We currently derive, and expect to continue to derive, a large percentage of our revenue from customers that are members of a small number of GPOs. Currently, fewer than ten GPOs control a large majority of sales to hospital customers. We have purchasing arrangements with the major GPOs in the United States, including AmeriNet, Inc., Broadlane Healthcare Corporation, Consorta, Inc., MedAssets Inc., Novation, LLC, Owen Healthcare, Inc., PACT, LLC, Premier Purchasing Partners, LP, International Oncology Network, or ION, National Oncology Alliance, or NOA, and U.S. Oncology, Inc. In order to maintain these relationships, we believe we need to be a reliable supplier, offer a broad product line, remain price competitive, comply with FDA regulations and provide high-quality products. The GPOs through which we sell our products also have purchasing agreements with other manufacturers that sell competing products and the bid process for products such as ours is highly competitive. Most of our GPO agreements may be terminated on short notice. If we are unable to maintain our arrangements with GPOs and key customers, sales of our products and revenue would decline. The strategy to license rights to or acquire and commercialize proprietary or other specialty injectable products may not be successful, and we may never receive any return on our investment in these product candidates. We may license rights to or acquire or commercialize proprietary or other specialty injectable products or technologies. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial and sales and marketing resources, will compete with us to license rights to or acquire or commercialize these products. We may not be able to license rights to or acquire these proprietary or other products or technologies on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we obtain rights to a pharmaceutical product and commit to payment terms, including, in some cases, up-front license payments, we may not be able to generate product sales sufficient to create a profit or otherwise avoid a loss. A product candidate may fail to result in a commercially successful drug for other reasons, including the possibility that the product candidate may: • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • be difficult or uneconomical to produce in commercial quantities; • be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties; or • fail to achieve market acceptance. The marketing strategy, distribution channels and levels of competition with respect to any licensed or acquired product may be different from those of our current products, and we may not be able to compete favorably in any new product category. Our chief executive officer and entities affiliated with him own a significant percentage of our common stock and could exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, regardless of the wishes of other stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, our chief executive officer and entities affiliated with him owned over 80% of our common stock. Accordingly, they have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidations and sales of assets. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall or prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium in such a transaction. This significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the market for and trading price of our common stock if investors perceive that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. 16 Table of Contents We depend heavily on the principal members of our management team, the loss of whom could harm our business. We depend heavily on the principal members of our management team. Each of the members of the executive management team is employed “at will.” The loss of the services of any member of the executive management team may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development or business objectives. To be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the inability to do so could seriously harm our operations. To be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees. We face competition for qualified scientific, technical and other personnel, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We also must continue to attract and motivate employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals. We depend on third parties to supply raw materials and other components and may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which will limit our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and harm our operating results. The manufacture of our products requires raw materials and other components that must meet stringent FDA requirements. Some of these raw materials and other components are available only from a limited number of sources. Additionally, our regulatory approvals for each particular product denote the raw materials and components, and the suppliers for such materials, we may use for that product. Obtaining approval to change, substitute or add a raw material or component, or the supplier of a raw material or component, can be time consuming and expensive, as testing and regulatory approval is necessary. If our suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials on a timely basis or we encounter difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, the manufacture and sale of our products may be disrupted, and our business, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. Other companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. The manufacture, use, offer for sale and sale of pharmaceutical products have been subject to substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These lawsuits relate to the enforceability, validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. Infringement litigation is prevalent with respect to generic versions of products for which the patent covering the brand name product is expiring, particularly since many companies which market generic products focus their development efforts on products with expiring patents. A number of pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions may have filed patent applications or may have been granted patents that cover aspects of our products or our licensors’ products, product candidates or other technologies. Future or existing patents issued to third parties may contain claims that conflict with our products. We are subject to infringement claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, and third parties could assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our current products, products we may develop or products we may license. In addition, our patents and patent applications, or those of our licensors, could face other challenges, such as interference, opposition and reexamination proceedings. Any such challenge, if successful, could result in the invalidation of, or a narrowing of scope of, any such patents and patent applications. Litigation or other proceedings could force us to: • stop or delay selling, manufacturing or using products that incorporate or are made using the challenged intellectual property; 17 Table of Contents • pay damages; or • enter into licensing or royalty agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of their outcome, would likely delay the regulatory approval process, be costly and require significant time and attention of key management and technical personnel. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and foreign countries could limit our ability to manufacture or sell our products. We rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, continuing technological innovation and patent protection to preserve our competitive position. Our patents and those for which we have or will license rights, may be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, and the rights granted in those patents may not provide proprietary protection or competitive advantages to us. We and our licensors may not be able to develop patentable products. Even if patent claims are allowed, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned by or licensed to us. Third-party patents could reduce the coverage of the patents licensed, or that may be license to or owned by us. If patents containing competitive or conflicting claims are issued to third parties, we may be prevented from commercializing the products covered by such patents, or may be required to obtain or develop alternate technology. In addition, other parties may duplicate, design around or independently develop similar or alternative technologies. We may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing or using our intellectual property. We generally control and limit access to, and the distribution of, our product documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect this proprietary information, however, unauthorized parties may obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Other parties may independently develop similar know-how or may even obtain access to our technologies. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary information to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems and costs in protecting their proprietary information in these foreign countries. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the courts have not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical patents. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. We may become subject to federal false claims or other similar litigation brought by private individuals and the government. The Federal False Claims Act allows persons meeting specified requirements to bring suit alleging false or fraudulent Medicare or Medicaid claims and to share in any amounts paid to the government in fines or settlement. These suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a health care company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines and/or be excluded from Medicare and Medicaid programs. Federal false claims litigation can lead to civil monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment and/or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded health programs. Other alternate theories of liability may also be available to private parties seeking redress for such claims. A number of parties have brought claims against numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers, and we cannot be certain that such claims will not be brought against us, or if they are brought, that such claims might not be successful. 18 Table of Contents We may need to change our business practices to comply with changes to, or may be subject to charges under, the fraud and abuse laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and its various state analogues, the federal False Claims Act and marketing and pricing laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. We may have to change our advertising and promotional business practices, or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful due to changes in laws, regulations or rules or due to administrative or judicial findings, which could materially adversely affect our business. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. Product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. Historically, we have carried product liability insurance and we expect to continue to carry such policies. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could exceed policy limits, divert management’s attention and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock may adversely affect our market price. In connection with our 2006 merger with ABI, we issued a significant number of shares of our common stock to a small number of former ABI shareholders. Although such shares are not immediately freely tradable, we have granted registration rights to the former ABI shareholders, including our chief executive officer, to permit the resale of the shares of our common stock that they received in the merger. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock into the public market, or perceptions in the market that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Our stock price has been volatile in response to market and other factors. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the following, some of which are beyond our control: • the concentration of the ownership of our shares by a limited number of affiliated stockholders may limit interest in our securities; • variations in quarterly operating results from the expectations of securities analysts or investors; • revisions in securities analysts’ estimates or reductions in security analysts’ coverage; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • reductions in the market share of our products; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • general technological, market or economic trends; • investor perception of our industry or prospects; • insider selling or buying; • investors entering into short sale contracts; • regulatory developments affecting our industry; and • additions or departures of key personnel. 19 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Separation of New Abraxis from New APP Debt incurred in connection with the separation could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We are leveraged as a result of the separation of New Abraxis. We have incurred $1 billion of indebtedness and have an additional $150 million revolving credit facility that is currently unused. $700 million of the proceeds of the indebtedness was contributed to New Abraxis in connection with the separation. Such indebtedness, coupled with the restrictions on our ability to issue equity securities due to the separation without jeopardizing the intended tax consequences of the separation, could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition and results of operations, such as: • making more difficult the satisfaction of our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other cash requirements; • limiting our operational flexibility in planning for or reacting to changing conditions in our business and industry; • requiring dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to make payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of such cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as leveraged, or whose debt is at more favorable interest rates and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; and • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions or preventing us from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins. We expect to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt with funds generated by our operations. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in customer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovations and pressure from competitors. If we do not have enough money to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us or at all, the failure to do any of which could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financing arrangements we entered into in connection with the separation contain restrictions and limitations that could impact our ability to operate our business. Our agreements governing the indebtedness we incurred in connection with the separation contain covenants that, among other things, put limitations on our ability and/or one or more of our subsidiaries to dispose of assets, to incur additional indebtedness, to incur guarantee obligations, to pay dividends, to create liens on assets, to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, to make investments (including joint ventures), loans or advances, to engage in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of their respective assets, to change the business conducted by us or engage in certain transactions with affiliates. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with the covenants contained in our debt agreements. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have 20 Table of Contents sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might impair our ability to obtain other financing. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Specifically, the terms of the debt agreement include covenants such as: • restrictions on acquisitions, which may limit our ability to make attractive acquisitions; • restrictions on investments, which may prevent us from investing in other companies or entering into joint ventures; • restrictions on guarantees, which may prevent us from providing commercially desirable credit support to suppliers, customers or other business partners; and • restrictions on incurrence of additional debt, which may further restrict our ability to make acquisitions or investments or to otherwise expand our business. Such restrictions in our debt agreement may prevent us from taking actions that would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow needed to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability and that of our subsidiaries to generate cash flow in the future. Our future performance is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service this debt and fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or seek to obtain additional equity capital, or refinance indebtedness or obtain additional financing. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of this anticipated debt and there can be no assurance that any of, or a combination of, such alternative measures would provide us with sufficient cash flows. In addition, such alternative measures could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the absence of sufficient operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our anticipated debt service and other obligations or otherwise risk default under the agreements governing our anticipated indebtedness. We may have potential conflicts of interest with New Abraxis. Conflicts of interest may arise between New Abraxis and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • business opportunities that may be attractive to both New Abraxis and us; • manufacturing and transitional service arrangements we entered into with New Abraxis; • lease agreements we entered into with New Abraxis; and • employee retention and recruiting. 21 Table of Contents Our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board of directors, Patrick Soon-Shiong, M.D., is also the chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors of New Abraxis. Dr. Soon-Shiong also beneficially owns over 80% of the outstanding capital stock of New Abraxis. Accordingly, he may experience conflicts of interest with respect to decisions involving business opportunities and similar matters that may arise in the ordinary course of our business, on the one hand, and the business of New Abraxis, on the other hand. We expect to resolve potential conflicts of interest on a case-by-case basis, in the manner required by applicable law and customary business practices. In connection with the separation and related transactions, we entered into an agreement with New Abraxis under which we and New Abraxis acknowledged and agreed that Dr. Soon-Shiong and Ms. Gopala may serve as an officer of both companies and receive compensation from either or both companies. We also acknowledged and agreed in this agreement that neither Dr. Soon-Shiong nor Ms. Gopala will have any obligation to present to our company any business or corporate opportunity that may come to his or her attention other than certain business opportunities relating to the manufacture or sale of products that either were manufactured and sold by the hospital-based products business prior to the separation or were the subject of an ANDA filed prior to the separation and related transactions. This agreement does not ensure the continued services of either Dr. Soon-Shiong or Ms. Gopala following the separation and related transactions, restrict these individuals from resigning from our company or restrict our board of directors from terminating their employment with us. In connection with the private letter ruling, Old Abraxis has represented to the Internal Revenue Service that no person will serve as an executive officer of both New Abraxis and New APP one year following the distribution. Resolutions of some potential conflicts of interest are subject to review and approval by the audit committee of our board of directors or approval by another independent committee of our board of directors. We still may be unable, however, to resolve some potential conflicts of interest with New Abraxis and Dr. Soon-Shiong and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. We may be required to indemnify New Abraxis and may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from New Abraxis. Under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, New Abraxis agreed to indemnify us from and after the distribution with respect to all liabilities of Old Abraxis not related to its hospital-based products business and the use by us of any trademarks or other source identifiers owned by New Abraxis. Similarly, we have agreed to indemnify New Abraxis from and after the distribution with respect to all liabilities of Old Abraxis related to its hospital-based products business and the use by us of any trademarks or other source identifiers owned by us. Under the terms of the tax allocation agreement, New Abraxis agrees to indemnify us against all tax liabilities to the extent they relate to the proprietary products business, and we agreed to indemnify New Abraxis against all liabilities to the extent they relate to the hospital-based products business. In addition, New Abraxis agreed to indemnify us for any taxes resulting from a failure of the distribution to qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 and Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code, unless such failure results solely from specified acts of us after the distribution. Under the terms of the manufacturing agreement, New Abraxis agreed to indemnify us from any damages resulting from a third-party claim caused by or alleged to be caused by (i) New Abraxis’ failure to perform its obligations under the manufacturing agreement; (ii) any product liability claim arising from the negligence, fraud or intentional misconduct of New Abraxis or any of its affiliates or any product liability claim arising from New Abraxis’ manufacturing obligations (or any failure or deficiency in New Abraxis’ manufacturing obligations) under the manufacturing agreement; (iii) any claim that the manufacture, use or sale of Abraxane® or our pipeline products infringes a patent or any other proprietary right of a third party; or (iv) any recall, product liability claim or other third-party claim not arising from the gross negligence or bad faith of, or intentional misconduct or intentional breach of the manufacturing agreement by, us by reason of the $100 million limitation of liability described below. New Abraxis also agreed to indemnify us for liabilities that it becomes subject to as a result of its activities under the manufacturing agreement and for which it is not responsible under the terms of the manufacturing agreement. We agreed to indemnify New Abraxis from any damages resulting from a third-party claim caused by or alleged to be caused by (i) our gross negligence, bad faith, intentional misconduct or intentional failure to perform our 22 Table of Contents obligations under the manufacturing agreement; or (ii) any product liability claim arising from the gross negligence or bad faith of, or intentional misconduct or intentional breach of the manufacturing agreement by, us. We generally will not have any liability for monetary damages to us or third parties in connection with the manufacturing agreement for damages in excess of $100 million in the aggregate. There are no time limits on when an indemnification claim must be brought and no other monetary limits on the amount of indemnification that may be provided. These indemnification obligations could be significant. Our ability to satisfy any of these indemnification obligations will depend upon the future financial strength of our company. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify New Abraxis for any substantial obligations after the separation. We also cannot assure you that, if New Abraxis becomes obligated to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, New Abraxis will have the ability to satisfy those obligations. Any indemnification payment by us, or any failure by New Abraxis to satisfy its indemnification obligations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If the holding company merger does not qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, then Old Abraxis and Old Abraxis stockholders may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes, and if the distribution does not constitute a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, then New APP and New APP stockholders may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes. In connection with the separation, we received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that (i) the merger of Old Abraxis into Abraxis BioScience, LLC, or the holding company merger, qualifies as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(F) of the Internal Revenue Code and (ii) the contribution of Abraxis BioScience, LLC to New Abraxis, which we refer to as the “proprietary contribution,” the cash contribution and the distribution qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code and, subject to the following sentence, the distribution qualifies for nonrecognition treatment under Sections 355(a) and 361(c) of the Internal Revenue Code. The private letter ruling, however, does not address two requirements under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code on which the Internal Revenue Service will not rule (namely, that the distribution (a) is motivated, in whole or substantial part, by one or more corporate business purposes and (b) is not being used principally as a device for the distribution of the earnings and profits of New APP, New Abraxis or both). Thus, we received an opinion of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP to the effect that these two requirements should be satisfied. The private letter ruling and opinion of counsel are based, in part on assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by, among others, Old Abraxis, Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife, and certain Old Abraxis stockholders, as requested by the Internal Revenue Service or counsel, which, if incorrect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by the Internal Revenue Service and counsel. The private letter ruling does not address certain material legal issues that could affect its conclusions (including whether the distribution is motivated, in whole or substantial part, by one or more corporate business purposes, whether the distribution is being used principally as a device for the distribution of the earnings and profits of New APP, New Abraxis or both, and whether the distribution and any acquisition or acquisitions are part of a plan or series of related transactions under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code), and reserves the right of the Internal Revenue Service to raise such issues upon a subsequent audit. Opinions of counsel neither bind the Internal Revenue Service or any court, nor preclude the Internal Revenue Service from adopting a contrary position. If the holding company merger does not qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, each Old Abraxis stockholder who received New APP common stock in exchange for Old Abraxis common stock will recognize taxable gain or loss equal to the difference between the fair market value of the Old Abraxis common stock received and such stockholder’s basis in the Old Abraxis common stock exchanged therefor, and Old Abraxis will recognize taxable gain equal to the fair market value of its assets over their aggregate adjusted basis. If the distribution does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, New APP would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the New Abraxis common 23 Table of Contents stock distributed to the Old Abraxis stockholders over New APP’s tax basis in the New Abraxis common stock. In addition, each Old Abraxis stockholder who receives New Abraxis common stock in the distribution would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the New Abraxis common stock received. In the event that New APP recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the distribution because the distribution does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the taxable gain recognized by New APP would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New APP. Under the Internal Revenue Code, New APP would be primarily liable for these taxes and New Abraxis would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of the tax allocation agreement among New APP, New APP LLC, New Abraxis and New Abraxis, LLC, New Abraxis will generally be required to indemnify New APP against any such taxes unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for an act of New APP or its affiliates, subject to specified exceptions. New Abraxis’ or New APP’s respective obligations to indemnify the other pursuant to the tax allocation agreement could have a material adverse effect on New APP and/or New Abraxis. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire either party. The distribution may be taxable to New APP and New Abraxis if there is an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of New APP or New Abraxis. Even if the distribution otherwise qualifies as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code the distribution of New Abraxis common stock to Old Abraxis stockholders would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New APP (but not New APP stockholders) if there is an acquisition of stock of New Abraxis or New APP as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution and that results in an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of New Abraxis or New APP. For purposes of determining whether the distribution of New Abraxis common stock to New APP stockholders in connection with the distribution is disqualified as tax-free to New APP under the rules described in the preceding paragraph, any acquisitions of the stock of New Abraxis or New APP within two years before or after the distribution are presumed to be part of a plan, although the parties may be able to rebut that presumption. The process for determining whether a prohibited 50% or greater change in control has occurred under these rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If New Abraxis or New APP engages in a transaction involving the issuance or disposition or shares, or that otherwise creates a significant change in ownership, New APP would recognize taxable gain if such issuance, disposition or other change in ownership results in an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of New Abraxis or New APP. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of our stock and the stock of New APP will be held by or on behalf of a single stockholder, that stockholder will have the ability to cause or permit a prohibited change in the ownership of New APP or of New Abraxis to occur, which would also cause New APP to recognize a taxable gain under these rules. The private letter ruling and tax opinion obtained in connection with the separation does not address whether the distribution and any acquisition or acquisitions are part of a plan or series of related transactions under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code. In the event that New APP recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the distribution because of an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of New Abraxis or New APP as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution, the taxable gain recognized by New APP would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New APP. Under the Internal Revenue Code, New APP would be primarily liable for these taxes and New Abraxis would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of the tax allocation agreement between New APP and New Abraxis, New Abraxis will generally be required to indemnify New APP against any such taxes unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for an act of New APP or its affiliates, subject to specified exceptions. New Abraxis’s or New APP’s respective obligations to indemnify 24 Table of Contents the other pursuant to the tax allocation agreement could have a material adverse effect on New APP and/or New Abraxis. There can be no assurance that New APP would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if New APP was determined to be responsible for these taxes. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire either party. Actions taken by our chief executive officer, his wife, or entities affiliated with him or one or more members of his family could adversely affect the tax-free nature of the distribution. Sales of New Abraxis common stock or New APP common stock by Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife, or entities affiliated with Dr. Soon-Shiong or one or more members of his family after completion of the distribution may adversely affect the tax-free nature of the distribution. Sales of New Abraxis common stock or New APP common stock by Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife, or entities affiliated with Dr. Soon-Shiong or one or more members of his family after completion of the distribution might be considered evidence that the distribution was used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits of New APP, New Abraxis or both, particularly if it were determined that the selling stockholder had an intent to effect such sale at the time of the distribution. The obligation of the parties to effect the separation was conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP to the effect that, among other requirements, the distribution is not being used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits of New APP, New Abraxis or both. If sales of New Abraxis common stock or New APP common stock by Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife, or entities affiliated with Dr. Soon-Shiong or one or more members of his family occur after completion of the distribution, the conclusions reached in the opinion may not apply. Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife and the entities that hold shares of Old Abraxis common stock on behalf of Dr. Soon-Shiong or one or more members of his immediate family have provided a representation to the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the private letter ruling that they have no plan or intention to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the shares of New Abraxis common stock and New APP common stock they will hold after the distribution. Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife and such entities provided a similar representation to counsel in connection with counsel’s opinion. If the Internal Revenue Service successfully asserted that the distribution was used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits of New APP, New Abraxis or both, the distribution would not qualify as a tax-free distribution, and thus would be taxable to both New APP and the New APP stockholders (as a result of which New Abraxis would be required to indemnify New APP to the extent required under the tax allocation agreement). Furthermore, sales of New Abraxis common stock or New APP common stock by Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife, or entities affiliated with Dr. Soon-Shiong or one or more members of his family after completion of the distribution could cause a prohibited change in the ownership of New Abraxis or New APP to occur within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, which would cause New APP to recognize a taxable gain. In the event that New APP recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the distribution because the distribution does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code or because of an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of New Abraxis or New APP as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, the taxable gain recognized by New APP would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New APP. Under the Internal Revenue Code, New APP would be primarily liable for these taxes and New Abraxis would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of the tax allocation agreement among New APP, New APP LLC, New Abraxis and New Abraxis LLC, New Abraxis will generally be required to indemnify New APP against any such taxes unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for an act of New APP or its affiliates, subject to specified exceptions. New Abraxis’s or New APP’s respective obligations to indemnify the other pursuant to the tax allocation agreement could have a material adverse effect on New APP and/or New Abraxis. There can be no assurance that New APP would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if New APP was determined to be responsible for these taxes. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire either party. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 25 Table of Contents 