risk factors from time to time by other reports that we file with the SEC in the future. Our Businesses Are Subject to Competitive Pressures. Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of price, quality, service, innovation and/or brand name across the industries and markets served. Some of our competitors for certain products have greater sales, assets and financial resources than we do. Competitive pressures could affect prices we charge our customers or demand for our products, which could adversely affect our operating results. Demand for Our Products Is Sensitive to the Economic Conditions in the Markets We Serve. Demand for electrical products follows general economic conditions and is generally sensitive to activity in the commercial and residential construction and renovation markets, industrial production levels, electronic component production and spending by utilities for replacements, expansions and efficiency improvements. Reduced demand due to economic and market conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. Development and Introduction of New Products and Solutions Affect our Ability to Grow Revenues and Improve Profitability. Development and introduction of new products that increase our customer’s productivity and efficiency, provide enhanced energy efficiency, introduce new technology solutions, enhance safety and conform to electrical standards in regions and local countries contribute significantly to our revenue growth and profitability. We continually invest in new products and solutions and are not dependent upon the success of any one product or solution. However, our overall success depends on continuous new products and solutions being introduced and accepted by our customers. Price Increases or Significant Shortages of Raw Materials and Components Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Costs and the Competitive Position of Our Products. Our major requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, aluminum, electronic components and plastics and, to a lesser degree brass, tin, lead, fiberglass and insulating materials including transformer oil. We have multiple sources of supply for each of our major requirements, although there are limited sources of supply for electrical core steel and transformer oil that Cooper uses in electrical power transmission and distribution products. Significant shortages could disrupt the supply of raw materials or price increases could affect prices we charge our customers, our product costs, and the competitive position of our products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Operations and Supply Sources Located Outside the United States, Particularly Emerging Markets, Are Subject to Increased Risks. Our operating activities outside the United States contribute significantly to our revenues and earnings. Serving a global customer base and remaining competitive in the global market place requires that we place more production in countries other than the United States, including emerging markets, to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain a cost-efficient structure. In addition, we source a significant amount of raw materials and other components from third-party suppliers or majority-owned joint-venture operations in low-cost countries. Our operations outside the United States could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns. 8 Table of Contents Operations outside the United States are also subject to certain regulatory and economic uncertainties including trade barriers and restrictions on the exchange and fluctuations of currency. We believe that our operations in certain emerging markets such as China, India and in the Middle East are subject to greater risks related to these political and economic uncertainties as compared to most countries where Cooper has operations. Our Key Strategic Initiatives Affect Our Ability to Grow Revenues, Control Costs and Improve Productivity. Our operating model is built on a platform of key strategic initiatives that are designed to grow revenues, control costs and improve productivity. Our ability to execute and realize the expected benefits from our strategic initiatives affects our revenues and operating costs. Also, our operations could be disrupted by manufacturing rationalizations. We Engage in Acquisitions and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating These Businesses. We are a company that seeks to grow through strategic acquisitions. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to integrate the assets and personnel acquired in these transactions. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations and may not realize the degree or timing of the benefits that we anticipated from an acquisition. We Have Liability Exposure for Asbestos-Related Claims. We have owned businesses that previously produced and sold products that contained asbestos. We, therefore, have potential liability arising from individuals claiming illnesses from exposure to asbestos. Insurance policies satisfy portions of the claim settlements and related legal costs. Many of the asbestos claims arise from our former Abex Friction Products business that was sold to Federal-Mogul Corporation and was subject to Federal-Mogul Corporation’s bankruptcy plan of reorganization. On September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued a ruling denying the Plan A Settlement, resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal-Mogul 524(g) trust and instead proceeding with the Plan B Settlement under which Cooper resolves through the tort system the asbestos-related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line that was sold to Federal-Mogul in 1998. As a result of the Bankruptcy Court ruling, Cooper adjusted its accounting in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the Plan B Settlement. The amounts recorded by Cooper for its asbestos liability and related insurance receivables rely on various assumptions. The key assumptions include the number and type of new claims filed each year, the average indemnity and defense costs of resolving claims, the number of years these assumptions are projected into the future, and the resolution of ongoing negotiations of additional settlement or coverage-in-place agreements with insurance carriers. Other factors that may affect Cooper’s liability and ability to recover under its insurance policies include uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, reforms that may be made by state and federal courts, and the passage of state or federal tort reform legislation. Cooper reviews these assumptions on a periodic basis to determine whether any adjustments are required to the estimates of its recorded asbestos liability and related insurance receivables. Further information regarding Cooper’s asbestos liability is discussed under Item 3 — Legal Proceedings. 9 Table of Contents We Are Subject To Litigation and Environmental Regulations That Could Adversely Impact Our Operating Results. We are, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability, tort, employment claims, intellectual property claims, and environmental matters, several of which claim, or may in the future claim, significant damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. Our operations and facilities are subject to numerous state and federal environmental laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, laws concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous substances and other waste materials. We employ personnel responsible for monitoring environmental compliance and arranging for remedial actions that may be required from time to time and also use consultants to advise on and assist with our environmental compliance efforts. Liabilities are recorded when the need for environmental assessments and/or remedial efforts become known or probable and the cost can be reasonably estimated. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent than in the past and are expected to continue to become more so. Violation of environmental laws and regulations can lead to the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial obligations, and in some cases injunctive relief. Such violations could also result in liabilities for personal injuries, property damage, and other costs and claims. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, also known as CERCLA or Superfund, and related state laws and regulations, liability can be imposed jointly on the entire group of responsible parties or separately on any one of the responsible parties, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons that contributed to the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. Under CERCLA, such persons may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources. Inability to Maintain Access to Capital Markets May Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Results. Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations may require access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. If we are unable to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse affect on our business and financial results. Risks relating to Cooper’s Jurisdiction of Incorporation. Legislative and regulatory action could materially adversely affect us. Legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the U.S. which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties upon which we rely or broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a U.S. resident, each of which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and/or require us to take further action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative or regulatory proposals. However, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding the reincorporation to Ireland or limiting our ability as an Irish company to take advantage of tax treaties with the U.S., we could be subjected to increased taxation and/or potentially significant expense. The U.S. Federal Government and certain states and municipalities have enacted legislation intended to deny federal funding and government contracts to U.S. companies that reincorporate outside the U.S. For instance, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010 10 Table of Contents signed into law in December 2009 includes a provision that prohibits government contracts with U.S. companies that have reincorporated outside the United States. We cannot provide any assurance that the impact on us of any adopted or proposed legislation in this area will not be materially adverse to our operations. In addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct substantial business in the U.S. but are domiciled in countries that do not have tax treaties with the United States, like Bermuda. We cannot assure you that moving our jurisdiction of incorporation to Ireland in September 2009 will eliminate the risk that we may be subject to similar criticism. We may not be able to maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. We believe that the Irish reincorporation should improve our ability to maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. We cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be, however, because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. Our actual effective tax rate may vary from this expectation and that variance may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of Ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland. The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in Ireland: • The judgment must be for a definitive sum; • The judgment must be final and conclusive; and • The judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction. As an Irish company, Cooper Industries plc is governed by the Irish Companies Act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to shareholder lawsuits. The duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of Cooper Industries plc securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 11 Table of Contents 