Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is dependent on customers’ capital spending on broadband communication systems, and reductions by customers in capital spending adversely affect our business. Our performance is dependent on customers’ capital spending for constructing, rebuilding, maintaining or upgrading broadband communications systems. Capital spending in the telecommunications industry is cyclical and can be curtailed or deferred on short notice. A variety of factors affect the amount of capital spending, and, therefore, our sales and profits, including: • General economic conditions; • Customer specific financial or stock market conditions; • Availability and cost of capital; • Governmental regulation; • Demands for network services; • Competition from other providers of broadband and high speed services; • Acceptance of new services offered by our customers; and • Real or perceived trends or uncertainties in these factors. Several of our customers have accumulated significant levels of debt. These high debt levels, coupled with the current turbulence and uncertainty in the capital markets, have affected the market values of domestic cable operators and may impact their access to capital in the future. Even if the financial health of our customers remains intact, we cannot assure you that these customers will be in a position to purchase new equipment at levels we have seen in the past or expect in the future. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive, and competitive pressures may adversely affect our results of operations. The markets for broadband communication systems are extremely competitive and dynamic, requiring the companies that compete in these markets to react quickly and capitalize on change. This requires us to retain skilled and experienced personnel as well as to deploy substantial resources toward meeting the ever-changing demands of the industry. We compete with national and international manufacturers, distributors and wholesalers including many companies that are larger than we are. Our major competitors include: • Ambit Microsystems; • Aurora Networks; • Big Band Networks; • Cisco Systems, Inc.; • Commscope, Inc; • Concurrent Computer Corporation; • Ericsson (TandbergTV); • Harmonic, Inc.; • Motorola, Inc.; • SeaChange, Inc.; • Thomson; and • TVC Communications, Inc. 18 Table of Contents The rapid technological changes occurring in the broadband markets may lead to the entry of new competitors, including those with substantially greater resources than our own. Because the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid growth and, in some cases, low barriers to entry, smaller niche market companies and start-up ventures also may become principal competitors in the future. Actions by existing competitors and the entry of new competitors may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The broadband communications industry is further characterized by rapid technological change. In the future, technological advances could lead to the obsolescence of some of our current products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, many of our larger competitors are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in these markets. They often have broader product lines and market focus and therefore are not as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. In addition, several of our competitors have been in operation longer than we have been, and therefore they have more established relationships with domestic and foreign broadband service users. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and competition may negatively impact our business. Consolidations in the telecommunications industry could result in delays or reductions in purchases of products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The telecommunications industry has experienced the consolidation of many industry participants, and this trend may continue. For instance, in July 2006, Adelphia sold its assets to Comcast and Time Warner. When consolidations occur, it is possible that the acquirer will not continue using the same suppliers, thereby possibly resulting in an immediate or future elimination of sales opportunities for us or our competitors, depending upon who had the business initially. Consolidations also could result in delays in purchasing decisions by the merged businesses. The purchasing decisions of the merged companies could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mergers among the supplier base also have increased, and this trend may continue. For example, in February 2006, Cisco Systems, Inc. acquired Scientific-Atlanta, Inc.; in April 2007, Ericsson acquired TANDBERG Television ASA; and in July 2007, Motorola, Inc. acquired Terayon, Inc. Larger combined companies with pooled capital resources may be able to provide solution alternatives with which we would be put at a disadvantage to compete. The larger breadth of product offerings by these consolidated suppliers could result in customers electing to trim their supplier base for the advantages of one-stop shopping solutions for all of their product needs. Consolidation of the supplier base could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may pursue acquisitions and investments that could adversely affect our business. In the past, we have made acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products, and technologies to complement or expand our business. While we have no announced plans for additional acquisitions, future acquisitions are part of our strategic objectives and may occur. If we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired businesses, products, or technologies with our existing business and products. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, and substantial goodwill. We may fail to realize the anticipated revenue and earnings growth and other benefits expected from our recently completed acquisition of C-COR, which could adversely affect the value of our shares. Our recently completed acquisition of C-COR involves the integration of two companies that previously operated independently. The integration of two previously independent companies is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process. While we have begun the integration process, complete integration will take some time to accomplish. The value of shares of our common stock will be affected by our ability to achieve the benefits expected to result from the acquisition. Achieving the benefits of the merger will depend in part upon meeting the challenges inherent in the successful combination of two business enterprises of the size and scope of ARRIS and C-COR, and the possible resulting diversion of management’s attention for an extended period of time. It is possible that the process of combining the companies could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing businesses, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain 19 Table of Contents relationships with customers, suppliers, and employees, or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. In addition, the successful combination of the companies will require the dedication of significant management resources, which could temporarily divert attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company. There can be no assurance that these challenges will be met and that the diversion of management attention will not negatively impact our operations. Delays encountered during the current transition process could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results, and financial condition. Although we expect significant benefits, such as revenue and earnings growth, to result from the merger, there can be no assurance that we will actually realize any of these anticipated benefits. Purchase accounting adjustments required under GAAP with respect to our acquisition of C-COR will have a significant impact on our GAAP earnings, which could impact the trading price of our common stock. Under U.S. GAAP, we accounted for the C-COR acquisition using a set of accounting rules known as “purchase accounting,” whereby the assets and liabilities of C-COR were recorded at fair value as of the date of acquisition. In connection with the acquisition, certain adjustments made as a result of the purchase accounting requirements will have a significant adverse effect on our GAAP earnings for at least the next year. These adjustments include, but are not limited to, fair market value adjustments to C-COR’s inventory, intangible assets, in-process research and development, and deferred revenue. For instance, the deferred revenue that was reflected as a liability in C-COR’s financial statements and that, absent the merger, would have been recognized over time as revenue has been substantially eliminated, thereby resulting in reduced revenues until the level of deferred revenue (or revenue that is instead recognized on a current basis) again builds to the levels present immediately prior to the merger. The initial purchase accounting adjustments, and their subsequent impact on financial results, do not necessarily reflect our future expected cash flows following the merger; however, the negative impact of such adjustments on our GAAP earnings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our results of operations after the proposed C-COR acquisition could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairment. Under GAAP, when we acquire a business, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141, Accounting for Business Combinations, requires us to record an asset called “goodwill” in an amount equal to the amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, in excess of the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business. Our recently completed acquisition of C-COR resulted in the recognition of approximately $305 million in additional goodwill as of December 31, 2007. SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, requires that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually for impairment, and that intangible assets that have finite useful lives be amortized over their useful lives. In testing for impairment, SFAS No. 142 provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. SFAS No. 142 requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions and projections of cash flows, investment rates and cost of capital and growth rates. These estimates and assumptions can significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. Any future impairment would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. Our business has primarily come from several key customers. The loss of one of these customers or a significant reduction in sales to one of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our two largest customers (including their affiliates, as applicable) are Comcast, and Time Warner Cable. For the year ended December 31, 2007, taking into account the acquisition of C-COR in December 2007, sales to Comcast accounted for approximately 39.8%, and sales to Time Warner Cable accounted for approximately 10.7% of our total revenue. The loss of any of these customers, or one of our other large customers, or a significant reduction in the products or services provided to any of them would have a material adverse impact on our business. For each of these customers, we also are one of their largest suppliers. A consequence of that, if from time-to-time customers elect to purchase products from our competitors in order to diversify their supplier base and to 20 Table of Contents dual-source key products or to curtail purchasing due to budgetary or market conditions, such decisions could have material consequences to our business. In addition, because of the magnitude of our sales to these customers the terms and timing of our sales are heavily negotiated, and even minor changes can have a significant impact upon or business. Forecasted reduction in sales For instance, the recently announced reduction in purchases by Comcast will affect our business. In addition, more so than historically, in recent years our customers have submitted their purchase orders less evenly over the course of each quarter and year and with shorter lead times. This has made it more difficult for us to forecast sales and other financial measures and plan accordingly. The broadband products that we develop and sell are subject to technological change and a trend toward open standards, which may impact our future sales and margins. The broadband products we sell are subject to continuous technological evolution. Further, the cable industry has and will continue to demand a move towards open standards. The move toward open standards is expected to increase the number of MSOs that will offer new services, in particular, telephony. This trend also is expected to increase the number of competitors and drive capital costs per subscriber deployed down. These factors may adversely impact both our future revenues and margins. Failure to increase our Media & Communications Systems revenue would adversely affect our financial results. Media & Communications Systems is expected to be our fastest growing and highest gross margin segment. If we are unable to grow revenues in this area, it will limit our ability to increase earnings and likely have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our ability to increase the revenue generated by our MCS segment depends on many factors that are beyond our control. For example: • Our customers may decide to continue to manage their networks by focusing on limited, individual elements of the network rather than managing their entire network integrity and service delivery processes using a suite of software application modules such as those we offer; • Our software products may not perform as expected; • New and better products may be developed by competitors; • Others may claim that our products infringe on their intellectual property; • Our customers may decide to use internally developed software tools to manage their networks rather than license software from us; • The software business is volatile and we may not be able to effectively utilize our resources and meet the needs of our customers if we are unable to forecast the future demands of such customers; • If our customers increase the amount of spending on automated network, service, and content and operations management tools, new suppliers of these tools may enter the market and successfully capture market share; and • We may be unable to hire and retain enough qualified technical and management personnel to support our growth plans. Fluctuations in our Media & Communications Systems sales result in greater volatility in our operating results. The level of our Media & Communications Systems sales fluctuate significantly quarter to quarter and results in greater volatility of our operating results than has been typical in the past, when the main source of volatility was the high proportion of quick-turn product sales. The timing of revenue recognition on software and system sales is based on specific contract terms and, in certain cases, is dependent upon completion of certain activities and 21 Table of Contents customer acceptance which are difficult to forecast accurately. Because the gross margins associated with software and systems sales are substantially higher than our average gross margins, fluctuations in quarterly software sales have a disproportionate effect on operating results and earnings per share and could result in our operating results falling short of the expectations of securities analysts and investors. Products currently under development may fail to realize anticipated benefits. Rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product life cycles characterize the markets for our products. The technology applications that we currently are developing may not ultimately be successful. Even if the products in development are successfully brought to market, they may not be widely used or we may not be able to successfully capitalize on their technology. To compete successfully, we must quickly design, develop, manufacture and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. However, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce these products if our products: • Are not cost-effective; • Are not brought to market in a timely manner; • Fail to achieve market acceptance; or • Fail to meet industry certification standards. Furthermore, our competitors may develop similar or alternative technologies that, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our strategic alliances are based on business relationships that have not been the subject of written agreements expressly providing for the alliance to continue for a significant period of time. The loss of a strategic relationship could have a material adverse effect on the progress of new products under development with that third party. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all facets of our operations. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel, including former C-COR personnel, which could impact our ability to maintain and grow our operations. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively. In the past, competitors and others have attempted to recruit our employees and in the future, their attempts may continue. The loss of services of any key personnel, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and other technical professionals, could negatively affect our business. We are substantially dependent on contract manufacturers, and an inability to obtain adequate and timely delivery of supplies could adversely affect our business. Many components, subassemblies and modules necessary for the manufacture or integration of our products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on sole or limited suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our reliance on subcontractors involves several risks including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, subassemblies or modules and reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components, subassemblies or modules. Historically, we have not maintained long-term agreements with any of our suppliers or subcontractors. An inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply could affect our ability to ship products on a timely basis. Any inability to reliably ship our products on time could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business. 22 Table of Contents Our international operations may be adversely affected by any decline in the demand for broadband systems designs and equipment in international markets. Sales of broadband communications equipment into international markets are an important part of our business. Our products are marketed and made available to existing and new potential international customers. In addition, United States broadband system designs and equipment are increasingly being employed in international markets, where market penetration is relatively lower than in the United States. While international operations are expected to comprise an integral part of our future business, international markets may no longer continue to develop at the current rate, or at all. We may fail to receive additional contracts to supply equipment in these markets. Our international operations may be adversely affected by changes in the foreign laws in the countries in which we and our manufacturers and assemblers have plants. A significant portion of our products are manufactured or assembled in China, Ireland, Mexico, and other countries outside of the United States. The governments of the foreign countries in which our products are manufactured may pass laws that impair our operations, such as laws that impose exorbitant tax obligations or nationalize these manufacturing facilities. In addition, as a result of our acquisition of C-COR, we acquired a manufacturing facility located in Tijuana, Mexico. This operation is exposed to certain risks as a result of its location, including: • Changes in international trade laws, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, affecting our import and export activities; • Changes in, or expiration of, the Mexican government’s Maquiladora program, which provides economic benefits to us; • Changes in labor laws and regulations affecting our ability to hire and retain employees; • Fluctuations of foreign currency and exchange controls; • Potential political instability and changes in the Mexican government; • Potential regulatory changes; and • General economic conditions in Mexico. Any of these risks could interfere with the operation of this facility and result in reduced production, increased costs, or both. In the event that production capacity of this facility is reduced, we could fail to ship products on schedule and could face a reduction in future orders from dissatisfied customers. If our costs to operate this facility increase, our margins would decrease. Reduced shipments and margins would have an adverse effect on our financial results. We face risks relating to currency fluctuations and currency exchange. On an ongoing basis we are exposed to various changes in foreign currency rates because significant sales are denominated in foreign currencies. These risk factors can impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We manage these risks through regular operating and financing activities and periodically use derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and option contracts. There can be no assurance that our risk management strategies will be effective. We also may encounter difficulties in converting our earnings from international operations to U.S. dollars for use in the United States. These obstacles may include problems moving funds out of the countries in which the funds were earned and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries where the usual accounts receivable payment cycle is longer. 23 Table of Contents We depend on channel partners to sell our products in certain regions and are subject to risks associated with these arrangements. We utilize distributors, value-added resellers, system integrators, and manufacturers’ representatives to sell our products to certain customers and in certain geographic regions to improve our access to these customers and regions and to lower our overall cost of sales and post-sales support. Our sales through channel partners are subject to a number of risks, including: • Ability of our selected channel partners to effectively sell our products to end customers; • Our ability to continue channel partner arrangements into the future since most are for a limited term and subject to mutual agreement to extend; • A reduction in gross margins realized on sale of our products; and • Diminution of contact with end customers which, over time, could aversely impact our ability to develop new products that meet customers’ evolving requirements. Our profitability has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which could adversely affect the price of our stock. Although we have been profitable in the last three fiscal years, prior to that we experienced significant losses and we may not be profitable, or meet the level of expectations of the investment community, in the future. This could have a material adverse impact on our stock price. We may face higher costs associated with protecting our intellectual property or obtaining access necessary to intellectual property of others. Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology, product development, technological expertise and distribution channels. We cannot predict whether we can protect our technology or whether competitors can develop similar technology independently. We have received, directly or indirectly, and may continue to receive from third parties, including some of our competitors, notices claiming that we, or our customers using our products, have infringed upon third-party patents or other proprietary rights. We are a defendant in proceedings (and other proceedings have been threatened) in which our customers were sued for patent infringement and sued us and several other suppliers for indemnification, and we may become involved in similar litigation involving these and other customers in the future. These claims, regardless of their merit, result in costly litigation, divert the time, attention and resources of our management, delay our product shipments, and, in some cases, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. If a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license or develop non-infringing technology, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the payment of any necessary licensing fees or indemnification costs associated with a patent infringement claim could also materially adversely affect our operating results. See “Legal Proceedings.” Changes in accounting pronouncements can impact our business. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles periodically are modified by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other governing authorities, and those changes can impact how we report our results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. For instance, the FASB recently announced that it may modify, or interpret differently, the accounting principles that govern the reporting of interest expense with respect to certain convertible indebtedness, such as the convertible notes that we have outstanding. The potential consequence of this will be an increase in our interest expense and a possible restatement of interest expense for prior periods. These changes could be significant. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Although from time to time we may consider repurchasing shares of our common stock, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the payment of dividends in certain circumstances may be prohibited by the terms of our current and future indebtedness. 24 Table of Contents We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. We have a shareholder rights plan (commonly known as a “poison pill”). This plan is not intended to prevent a takeover, but is intended to protect and maximize the value of stockholders’ interests. This plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or may delay that process. We have the ability to issue preferred shares without stockholder approval. Our common shares may be subordinate to classes of preferred shares issued in the future in the payment of dividends and other distributions made with respect to common shares, including distributions upon liquidation or dissolution. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation permits our board of directors to issue preferred shares without first obtaining stockholder approval. If we issued preferred shares, these additional securities may have dividend or liquidation preferences senior to the common shares. If we issue convertible preferred shares, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders’ interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of December 31, 2007, there were no unresolved comments. 