Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Decreases in demand by our clients may adversely affect the profitability of our business. Among other things, changes in the economy which result in higher unemployment and low job growth, a decrease or stagnation in the general level of in-patient admissions at our clients’ facilities and the willingness of our hospital, healthcare facilities and physician group clients to develop their own temporary staffing pools and increase the productivity of their permanent staff may, individually or in the aggregate, significantly affect demand for our temporary healthcare staffing services and hamper our ability to attract, develop and retain clients. When a hospital’s admissions increase, temporary employees or other healthcare professionals are often added before full-time employees are hired. As admissions decrease, clients typically reduce their use of temporary employees or other healthcare professionals before undertaking layoffs of their permanent employees. In a down market, healthcare professionals may be less likely to leave a full-tim e position to work on temporary assignments and clients are also more likely to focus on internal solutions for their temporary staffing needs. In addition, we also may experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods when in-patient admissions are stagnant for periods of time or declining. In addition, if the trend towards providing healthcare in alternative settings, as opposed to acute care hospitals intensifies, it could result in a decline in in-patient admissions at our clients’ facilities. These events individually or in the aggregate may cause a reduction in admissions that could negatively affect the demand for our services. Decreases in demand for our services may affect our ability to provide attractive assignments to our healthcare professionals thereby reducing our profitability. Our clients may terminate or not renew their contracts with us. Our arrangements with hospitals, healthcare facilities and physician group clients are generally terminable upon 30 to 90 days’ notice. These arrangements may also require us to, among other things, guarantee a percentage of open positions that we will fill, and if we are unable to meet those obligations a client may terminate our contract which could have a negative impact on our profitability. We may have fixed costs, including housing costs, associated with terminated arrangements that we will be obligated to pay post-termination. Our clinical trial services business is conducted under longer-term contracts with individual clients that may perform numerous clinical trials. Some of these contracts are terminable by the clients without cause upon 30 to 60 days’ notice. Sponsors may decide to immediately discontinue trials at any time if compounds or biologics being studied do not meet targeted expectations. Clients utilizing our clinical trial services may also decide to offshore work outside of the United States to countries where we do not currently provide those services and this could adversely impact our business. Clients may also develop their own in-house capabilities that may replace their need to utilize our staffing and outsourcing clinical trial services. The delay, loss, termination or unfavorable change in the scope of work performed under a clinical trial services contract could negatively impact our business. We may be unable to recruit enough healthcare professionals to meet our clients’ demands. We rely significantly on our ability to attract, develop and retain healthcare professionals who possess the skills, experience and, as required, licensure necessary to meet the specified requirements of our healthcare clients. We compete for healthcare staffing personnel with other temporary healthcare staffing companies, as well as actual and potential clients such as healthcare facilities, physician groups and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, some of which seek to fill positions with either permanent or temporary employees. Currently, there is a shortage of certain qualified nurses and physicians in many areas of the United States and competition for these professionals remains intense. The current economic conditions may make these healthcare professionals less willing to travel to temporary assignments, thus further intensifying the competition with other temporary healthcare staffing companies to recruit these healthcare professionals. Althoug h demand is below historically normal levels, at this time we still do not have enough nurses and physicians to meet all of our clients’ demands for these staffing services. This shortage of healthcare professionals generally and their willingness to leave stable full-time jobs to travel on temporary assignments in the current environment may limit our ability to increase the number of healthcare professionals that we successfully recruit, decreasing our ability to grow our business. The costs of attracting and retaining healthcare professionals may rise more than we anticipate. We compete with hospitals, healthcare facilities, physician groups and other healthcare staffing companies for qualified healthcare professionals. Because there is currently a shortage of certain qualified healthcare professionals, competition for them is intense. Our ability to recruit and retain healthcare professionals depends on our ability to, among other things, offer assignments that are attractive to healthcare professionals and offer them competitive wages and benefits or payments, as applicable. Our competitors might increase hourly wages or the value of benefits to induce healthcare professionals to take 23 assignments with them. If we do not raise wages or increase the value of benefits in response to such increases by our competitors, we could face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified healthcare professionals. If we raise wages in response to our competitors’ wage increases and are unable to pass such cost increases on to our clients, our margins could decline. Our costs of providing housing for our healthcare professionals may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, our margins could decline. We provide housing for certain of our healthcare professionals when on an assignment with us. At any given time, we have over a thousand apartments on lease throughout the U.S. Typically, the length of an apartment lease is coterminous with the length of the assignment of a nurse or allied healthcare professional. If the costs of renting apartments and furniture for these healthcare professionals increase more than we anticipate and we are unable to pass such increases on to our clients, our margins may decline. To the extent the length of a nurse’s housing lease exceeds the term of the nurse’s staffing contract, we bear the risk that we will be obligated to pay rent for housing we do not use. To limit the costs of unutilized housing, we try to secure leases with term lengths that match the term lengths of our staffing contracts, typically 13 weeks. In some housing markets we have had, and believe we will continue to have, difficulty identifying sho rt-term leases. If we cannot identify a sufficient number of appropriate short-term leases in regional markets, or, if for any reason, we are unable to efficiently utilize the apartments we do lease, we may be required to pay rent for unutilized housing, or, to avoid such risk, we may have to forego otherwise profitable opportunities. Any failure by our clinical trial services business to comply with certain policies and procedures and regulations specific to that business could harm our reputation and operating results. Our clinical trial services business operates in a highly regulated industry. Any failure on our part to comply with the policies and procedures established for a trial or to comply with existing regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. This could harm our reputation, our ability to win future business and our operating results. In addition, if the FDA or another similar regulatory body finds a material breach by us of sound clinical practices, it could result in the termination of a clinical trial which could also harm our reputation, our ability to win future business and our operating results. The nature of our clinical trial services contracts could hurt our operating results. Some of our contracts are fixed price and, as such, we have limits on the amounts we can charge for our clinical trial services. As a result, the profitability of this business could be negatively impacted due to changes in the timing and progress of large contracts. In addition, we may be responsible for cost overruns on certain contracts unless the scope of work is revised from the original contract terms and we are able to negotiate an amendment with the client shifting the additional cost to the client. If we experience significant cost overruns, it may result in lower gross margins on those projects. Our clinical trial business exposes us to potential liability for personal injury and wrongful death claims that could affect our reputation and operating results. Our clinical trial services business is involved in the testing of new drugs and medical devices on volunteer human beings. Due to the risk of personal injury or death to patients participating in clinical trials, we are at risk for being sued in personal injury or wrongful death lawsuits due to possible unforeseen adverse side effects or the improper administration of a drug or device. Many of these patients are already seriously ill. Under our contracts, we are typically indemnified unless the resulting damages were caused by our negligence (e.g. serious adverse event is not reported timely to a sponsor or unblinding of material for a study is not done timely to respond with appropriate information for patient safety reasons). We have insurance coverage for certain events, however, the amount of our liability could materially impact our operating performance and our reputation and our insurance program may not cover such event. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems used in daily operations identify and match staffing resources and client assignments and perform billing and accounts receivable functions. Additionally, we rely on our information systems in managing our accounting and financial reporting. If these systems are damaged or disrupted and unable to function properly in order to support our business operations or require significant costs to repair, maintain or further develop, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our information systems are protected through a secure hosting facility and additional backup remote processing capabilities also exist in the event our primary systems fail or are not accessible. However, the business is still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and simila r 24 events which may prevent personnel from gaining access to systems necessary to perform their tasks in an automated fashion. In the event that critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, to maintain billing and clinical records reliably, to bill for services efficiently and to maintain our accounting and financial reporting accurately. Losses caused by natural disasters, such as hurricanes could cause us to suffer material financial losses. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including, but not limited to, hurricanes and other severe weather. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure and the severity of the event. We do not maintain business interruption insurance for these events. We could suffer material financial losses as a result of such catastrophes. If applicable government regulations change, we may face increased costs that reduce our revenue and profitability. The temporary healthcare staffing industry is regulated in many states. For example, in some states, firms such as our nurse staffing companies must be registered to establish and advertise as a nurse-staffing agency or must qualify for an exemption from registration in those states. If we were to lose any required state licenses, we could be required to cease operating in those states. The introduction of new regulatory provisions could substantially raise the costs associated with hiring temporary employees. For example, some states could impose sales taxes or increase sales tax rates on temporary healthcare staffing services. These increased costs may not be able to be passed on to clients without a decrease in demand for temporary employees. In addition, if government regulations were implemented that limited the amounts we could charge for our services, our profitability could be adversely affected. If certain of our healthcare professionals are reclassified from independent contractors to employees our profitability could be materially adversely impacted. Federal or state taxing authorities could re-classify our locum tenens physicians and certified registered nurse anesthetists as employees, despite both the general industry standard to treat them as independent contractors and many state laws prohibiting non-physician owned companies from employing physicians (e.g. the “corporate practice of medicine”). If they were re-classified as employees, we would be subject to, among other things, employment and payroll-related tax claims, as well as any applicable penalties and interest. Any such reclassification would have a material adverse impact on our business model for that business segment and would negatively impact our profitability. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. We are spending an increased amount of management’s time and resources, since the inception of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosures. The compliance requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by our independent auditors. This process has required us to hire additional personnel and has resulted in additional accounting and legal expenses. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the review and evaluation, the implementation of improvements and the receipt of a positive attestation by our independent auditors. If we are not able to timely comply with the requirements set forth in Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our business and financial results. Substantial changes in healthcare reform or reimbursement trends could hinder our clients’ ability to pay us. While in most cases our fees are paid directly by our clients rather than by governmental or third-party payers, many of our clients are reimbursed under the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs for the services they provide. Changes made by federal and state governments could reduce reimbursement rates. In addition, insurance companies and managed care organizations seek to control costs by requiring that healthcare providers, such as hospitals, discount their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. Future federal and state legislation or evolving commercial reimbursement trends may further reduce, or change conditions for, our clients’ reimbursement. Limitations on reimbursement could reduce our clients’ cash flows, hampering their ability to pay us. Competition for acquisition opportunities may restrict our future growth by limiting our ability to make acquisitions at reasonable valuations and lack of liquidity in the credit markets may restrict our ability to make certain acquisitions. Our business strategy includes strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. We have historically faced competition for acquisitions. In the future, this could limit our ability to grow by acquisition or could raise 25 the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive to our earnings. In addition, even if we are able to negotiate acceptable terms at reasonable valuations, there can be no assurance that there will be sufficient liquidity available on terms favorable to us to complete acquisitions. If we are unable to secure necessary financing under our credit facility or otherwise, we may be unable to complete desirable acquisitions. Certain restrictive covenants in our credit facility may also limit our ability to complete acquisitions. We may face difficulties integrating our acquisitions into our operations and our acquisitions may be unsuccessful, involve significant cash expenditures or expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We continually evaluate opportunities to acquire companies that would complement or enhance our business and at times have preliminary acquisition discussions with some of these companies. These acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · Potential loss of key employees or clients of acquired companies; · Difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into our business; · Difficulties integrating acquired companies into our operating, financial planning and financial reporting systems; · Diversion of management attention from existing operations; and · Assumptions of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for their failure to comply with healthcare and tax regulations. These acquisitions may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence and integration expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. We operate our business in a regulated industry and modifications, inaccurate interpretations or violations of any applicable statutory or regulatory requirements may result in material costs or penalties to our Company and could reduce our revenue and earnings per share. Our industry is subject to many complex federal, state and international laws and regulations related to, among other things, the eligibility of our foreign nurses to work in the U.S., the licensure of professionals, the payment of our field employees (e.g., wage and hour laws, employment taxes and income tax withholdings, the HITECH Act, etc.) and the operations of our business generally. If we do not comply with the laws and regulations that are applicable to our business (both domestic and foreign), we could incur civil and/or criminal penalties or be subject to equitable remedies. Impairment in the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect us. We are required to test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives annually, including the goodwill associated with acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. Long-lived assets and identifiable intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that amounts may not be recoverable. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying amount of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. During the fourth quarters of 2010 and 2009, we recorded impairment charges of $10.8 million, pretax, and $1.7 million, pretax, respectively, pursuant to these assessments. The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates abou t our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations, changes in competition or potential changes in our stock price and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of our future performance, could affect the fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets, which may result in an impairment charge. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, there could be an adverse effect on us. At December 31, 2010, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets (net of amortization) represented 89.5% of our stockholders’ equity. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. In recent years, healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, vicarious liability, violation of certain consumer protection acts, negligent hiring, product liability or related legal theories. We may be subject to liability in such cases even if the contribution to the alleged injury was minimal. Many of these actions 26 involve large claims and significant defense costs. In addition, we may be subject to claims related to torts or crimes committed by our corporate employees or healthcare professionals. In most instances, we are required to indemnify clients against some or all of these risks. A failure of any of our corporate employees or healthcare professionals to observe our policies and guidelines intended to reduce these risks, relevant client policies and guidelines or applicable federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations could result in negative publicity, payment of fines or other damages. A key component of our business is the credentialing process. Ultimately, any hospital or other health care provider is responsible for its own internal credentialing process, and the provider typically makes the decision to allow a healthcare professional to provide services on its behalf. Nevertheless, in many situations, the provider will be relying upon the reputation and screening process of our Company. Errors in this process or failure to detect a poor or incorrect history could have a material effect on our reputation. In addition, we may not have access to all of the resources that are available to hospitals to check credentials. To protect ourselves from the cost of these types of claims, we maintain professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Our coverage is, in part, self-insured. However, our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. If our insurance costs increase significantly, these incremental costs could negatively affect our financial results. We purchase various insurance policies to limit or transfer certain risks inherent in our operations. The costs related to obtaining and maintaining professional and general liability insurance and health insurance for healthcare providers has generally been increasing. If the cost of carrying these insurance policies continues to increase significantly, we will recognize an associated increase in costs, which may negatively affect our margins. This could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. If we become subject to material liabilities under our self-insurance programs, our financial results may be adversely affected. We provide workers compensation coverage through a program that is partially self-insured. In addition, we provide medical coverage to our employees through a partially self-insured preferred provider organization. A portion of our medical malpractice coverage is also through a partially self-insured program. If we become subject to substantial uninsured workers compensation, medical coverage or medical malpractice liabilities, our financial results may be adversely affected. We are subject to litigation, which could result in substantial judgment or settlement costs. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, if any, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. While we do have certain business insurance, it may not be sufficient to cover our needs. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those estimated by our current assessments which would impact our profitability. Adverse developments in existing litigation claims or legal proceedings involving our Company or new claims could require us to establish or increase litigation reserves or enter into unfavorable settlemen ts or satisfy judgments for monetary damages for amounts in excess of current reserves, which could adversely affect our financial results for future periods. Until the sale by certain selling stockholders of a significant portion of their remaining shares, those selling stockholders will be able to substantially influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, regardless of the preferences of other stockholders. Charterhouse Equity Partners III (CEP III) and CHEF Nominees Limited (CHEF) own approximately 8% of our outstanding common stock and continue to have two designees serving on our Board of Directors (which is currently comprised of seven members). Accordingly, they will be able to substantially influence: · the election of Directors · management and policies; and · the outcome of any corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of substantially all of our assets. 27 Under our stockholders’ agreement, the CEP Investors had the right to designate two directors for nomination to our Board of Directors. This number decreased (i) to one director when CEP reduced its ownership pursuant to a Secondary Offering in November 2006 by more than 50% of their holdings prior to our initial public offering and (ii) the number will decrease to zero upon a reduction of ownership by more than 90% of their holdings prior to our initial public offering. Their interests may conflict with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. A registration statement under the Securities Act covering resale of CEP III’s stock is presently in effect and sales of this stock could cause our stock price to decline. We presently maintain an effective shelf registration under the Securities Act covering the resale of stock held by CEP III. These shares represent approximately 8% of our outstanding common stock and sales of the stock could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, we registered 4,398,001 shares of common stock for issuance under our 1999 stock option plans and 3,500,000 shares of common stock for our 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. Options to purchase 620,246 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding as of February 28, 2011 of which, options to purchase 619,622 shares were vested. In addition, 1,070,898 shares of stock appreciation rights were issued and outstanding as of February 28, 2011, 307,302 of which were vested. Shares of restricted stock outstanding as of February 28, 2011, were 501,699. Common stock issued upon exercise of stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock, under our benefit plans, is eligib le for resale in the public market without restriction. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of shares held by any stockholder or the availability of these shares for future sale will have on the market price of our common stock. If provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, we may be unable to consummate a transaction that our stockholders consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Without stockholder approval, the Board of Directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Terrorist attacks or armed conflict could adversely affect our normal business activity and results of operations. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, we experienced a temporary interruption of normal business activity. Similar events in the future or armed conflicts involving the United States could result in additional temporary or longer-term interruptions of our normal business activity and our results of operations. Future terrorist attacks could also result in reduced willingness of nurses to travel to staffing assignments by airplane or otherwise. Market disruptions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Economic conditions and volatility in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on the availability of credit to our customers and businesses generally. To the extent that disruption in the financial markets occurs, it has the potential to materially affect our customers’ ability to tap into debt and/or equity markets to continue their ongoing operations, have access to cash and/or pay their debts as they come due, all of which could reasonably be expected to have an adverse impact on the number of open positions for healthcare staff they request, as well as their ability to pay for our temporary staffing services. These events could negatively impact our results of operations and financial conditions. Although we monitor our credit risks to specific clients that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk or lack of access to liquidity may result from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Conditions in the credi t markets and the economy generally could adversely impact our business and frustrate or prohibit us from refinancing our credit facility on terms favorable to us when it comes due in September 2013. We could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs and/or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. Our existing credit facility currently contains financial covenants that require us to operate at or below a maximum leverage ratio. Further deterioration in our operating results could result in our inability to comply with these covenants which would result in a default under our credit facility. If an event of default exists, our lenders could call the indebtedness and we may be unable to renegotiate or secure other financing. 28 If our healthcare facility clients increase the use of intermediaries it could impact our profitability. We have seen an increase in the use of intermediaries by our clients, including both vendor management companies (who solely provide technology) and managed service providers (who provide staffing services). These intermediaries typically enter into contracts with our clients and then subcontract with us and other agencies to provide staffing services, thus interfering to some extent in our relationship with our clients. Each of these intermediaries charges an administrative fee. If managed service providers win business with our current customers, the number of professionals we have on assignment at those clients could decrease. If we are unable to negotiate hourly rates with intermediaries for the services we provide at these clients which are sufficient to cover administrative fees charged by those intermediaries, it could impact our profitability. If those intermediaries become insolvent or fail to pay us for our services, it could impact our bad debt expense and thus our overall profitability. We also provide vendor management services directly to certain of our clients. While such contracts typically improve our market share at these facilities, they could result in less diversification of our customer base and increased liability. The loss of one or more of our large vendor management accounts could materially affect our profitability. We are subject to business risks associated with international operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had international operations in the United Kingdom where our AKOS Limited (AKOS) business is headquartered and India where our Cross Country Infotech, Pvt Ltd. (Infotech) subsidiary is located. AKOS is a provider of drug safety, regulatory and clinical trial services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in Europe, the United States, Canada and Asia. Infotech provides in-house information systems development and support services as well as some back-office processing services. We have limited experience in supporting our services outside of North America. Operations in certain markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: fluctuations in currency exchange rates; changes in regulations, varying economic and political conditions; overlapping or differing tax structures; and regulations concerning compensation and benefits, vacation and the termination of employment. Our inability to effectively manage our international operations could result in increased costs and adversely affect our results of operations. 29 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 