ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSAny of the following risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results or anticipated results. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face, but represent the risks that we believe are material. However, there may be additional risks that we currently consider not to be material or of which we are not currently aware, and any of these risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results.Risks Related to Our BusinessOur losses and loss adjustment expenses and benefits may exceed our loss and benefit reserves, which could significantly increase our liabilities and reduce our net income and could have a significant and negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.18Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the business that we insure and reinsure. If we fail to assess these risks accurately, or if events or circumstances cause our estimates to be incorrect, we may not establish appropriate premium rates and our reserves may be inadequate to cover our losses and benefits. If our actual claims experience is less favorable than our underlying assumptions, we will be required to increase our liabilities, which will reduce our net income and could have a significant and negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reserves are actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of what we ultimately expect to pay on claims and benefits, based on facts and circumstances then known, estimates of future trends in claim frequency and severity, mortality and other variable factors, such as inflation. Our actual losses and benefits may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates contained in our financial statements. The establishment of new reserves or the adjustment of reserves for reported claims could result in significant positive or negative changes to our financial condition or results of operations in any particular period.Reinsurance reserves are subject to greater uncertainty than insurance reserves primarily because a reinsurer relies on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that our ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks reinsured by us and the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. In addition, reinsurance reserves may be less reliable than insurance reserves because there is generally a longer lapse of time from the occurrence of the event to the reporting of the loss or benefit to the reinsurer to the ultimate resolution or settlement of the loss.The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a significant and negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We seek to mitigate our loss exposure through a variety of methods. We write many of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis. Excess of loss insurance and reinsurance indemnifies the insured against a specified amount of losses in excess of a specified amount. We also seek to limit our loss exposure by diversifying our business by class of business and type of peril and by using geographic zone limitations. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. Many of our insurance and reinsurance contracts include loss limitation features that may not be enforceable in the manner that we intend, such as exclusions from coverage and choice of coverage provisions. In addition, many of our reinsurance contracts do not contain aggregate loss limits, which means that there is no contractual limit to the amount of losses that we may be required to pay pursuant to such reinsurance contracts. We purchase a substantial amount of reinsurance in order to reduce our loss exposure to various risks. We may be unable to collect all amounts due from our reinsurers under our reinsurance agreements. The failure of any our loss limitation methods could have a significant and negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to write insurance and reinsurance is affected by cyclical trends and by global economic conditions and fluctuations in interest rates.The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry has historically been affected by cyclical trends. Demand for property and casualty insurance and reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting results and prevailing general economic and market conditions, all of which affect insurance and reinsurance premium rates and the amount of risk that companies and insurers elect to retain. The supply of property and casualty insurance and reinsurance is directly related to the levels of surplus available to support assumed business that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being realized in the insurance and reinsurance industry, the frequency and severity of losses and prevailing general economic and market conditions. The cyclical trends in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries and the profitability of these industries can also be significantly affected by volatile and unpredictable developments, including what we believe to be a trend of courts to grant increasingly larger awards for certain types of damages, natural disasters, fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices of investments and inflationary pressures that may tend to affect the size of losses experienced by insureds and primary insurance companies. We cannot predict with accuracy whether market conditions will remain constant, improve or deteriorate. Adverse market conditions may lead to a significant reduction in property and casualty premium rates, less favorable policy terms and/or less premium volume.A downgrade or withdrawal of any of our ratings may significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy successfully.Companies, insurers and reinsurance and insurance intermediaries use financial ratings as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers and reinsurers. An unfavorable rating or the lack of a rating of its insurer or reinsurer may adversely affect the rating of a company purchasing insurance or reinsurance.The ratings assigned by rating agencies to insurance and reinsurance companies are based upon factors relevant to policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. For the 19Table of Contents financial strength of each of our principal operating subsidiaries, please see “Item 1—Business – Our Ratings.” To date, none of our ratings issued by an independent rating agency has been downgraded. However, if an independent rating agency downgrades or withdraws any of our ratings, we could be severely limited or prevented from writing any new insurance and reinsurance contracts, some existing contracts may be terminated, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted. A downgrade or withdrawal of any of our ratings by an independent rating agency would significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy successfully.Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by the occurrence of catastrophes.We have substantial exposure to unexpected losses resulting from natural and man-made catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, volcano eruptions, explosions, airplane crashes and other natural or man-made disasters, including acts of war, terrorism and political risk. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, but the loss experience of property catastrophe insurers and reinsurers has been generally characterized as low frequency and high severity in nature. The catastrophe modeling tools that we use to help manage catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that rely on historical trends, are subject to error and may produce estimates that are materially different from actual results. In addition, because accounting regulations do not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a significant and negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Many scientists believe that in recent years changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in some parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. For example, in recent years, hurricane activity has affected areas further inland than previously experienced, which has expanded hurricane exposures for insurers and reinsurers. Changing climate conditions could cause catastrophe models to be less accurate, which could limit our ability to effectively manage catastrophe exposures.Competitors and/or consolidation in our industry may make it difficult for us to write business effectively and profitably.The insurance and reinsurance industry is highly competitive. Competition in the types of business that we currently underwrite and intend to underwrite in the future is based principally on:•premium rates;•ability to obtain terms and conditions appropriate with the risk being assumed;•the general reputation and perceived financial strength of the insurer or reinsurer;•relationships with insurance and reinsurance intermediaries;•ratings assigned by independent rating agencies;•speed of claims payment and quality of administrative activities; and•experience in the particular line of insurance or reinsurance to be written.We compete directly with numerous independent insurance and reinsurance companies, captive insurance companies, subsidiaries or affiliates of established and newly formed insurance companies, reinsurance departments of primary insurance companies, government sponsored reinsurance pools and underwriting syndicates from countries throughout the world in our chosen product lines. Many of these competitors are well established, have significant operating histories, underwriting expertise and extensive capital resources and have developed longstanding customer relationships. Our worldwide competitors include many larger companies with higher ratings and greater underwriting capacity than we have.Further, our ability to compete may be harmed if our competitors consolidate. Consolidated entities may try to use their enhanced market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. If competitive pressures reduce our prices, we would expect to write less business and net income would decrease. If our industry consolidates, competition for customers will become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, further reducing our operating margins. In addition, insurance companies that consolidate may be able to spread their risks across a consolidated, larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance. The number of companies offering retrocessional reinsurance may decline. Any of the foregoing could significantly and negatively affect our business and our results of operations.The effect of emerging claim and coverage issues could have a material adverse effect on our business.As industry practices and legal, judicial and social conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. Various provisions of our contracts, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may be difficult to enforce. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond the period that we intended or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until many 20Table of Contents years after we issue insurance or reinsurance contracts affected by these changes. As a result, we may not be able to ascertain the full extent of our liabilities under our insurance or reinsurance contracts for many years following the issuance of our contracts. Emerging claims and coverage issues could have a material adverse effect on our business.A limited number of insurance and reinsurance brokers account for a large portion of our revenues, and a loss of all or a substantial portion of this brokered business or the consolidation of these brokers could have a significant and negative effect on our business and results of operations.Most of our insurance and reinsurance business is placed through brokers worldwide. A significant volume of our premiums is produced through a limited number of insurance and reinsurance brokers. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the top three independent producing brokers accounted for 23%, 22% and 11%; 24%, 18% and 12%; and 22%, 14% and 13%, respectively, of property and casualty gross premiums written. Insurance and reinsurance brokers may consolidate in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to access business and distribute our products. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through one or more of these brokers, or the consolidation of these brokers, could have a significant and negative effect on our business and results of operations.The involvement of reinsurance brokers subjects us to their credit risk.In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our contracts to reinsurance brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the ceding insurers that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with us. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of any particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the ceding insurer pays premiums for these policies to reinsurance brokers for payment to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for these premiums, whether or not we have actually received them. Consequently, consistent with the industry, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with whom we do business; however, due to the unsettled and fact-specific nature of the law, we are unable to quantify our exposure to this risk. To date, we have not experienced any material losses related to these credit risks.Reinsurance and retrocessional reinsurance may not be available at all or on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our ability to write new business or mitigate the effect of large or multiple losses.We purchase reinsurance and retrocessional reinsurance in order to mitigate the effect of large and multiple losses. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance and retrocessional reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. Accordingly, we may be unable to obtain desired amounts of reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance, we may not be able to negotiate appropriate or acceptable terms or obtain reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. If we fail to obtain reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance at all or on acceptable terms, our capacity to underwrite new business may be limited. If we purchase reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance but are unable to collect, we may have difficulty mitigating the effect of large or multiple losses which, in turn, could have a significant and negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more members of our senior management or other key personnel.Our future success depends to a significant extent on the efforts of our senior management and other key personnel to implement our business strategy. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of our senior management.Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians, other than spouses of Bermudians and holders of permanent resident’s certificates or working resident’s certificates, may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. A work permit may be granted or renewed only upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian, spouse of a Bermudian, holder of a permanent resident’s certificate or holder of a working resident’s certificate meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer and has applied for the position. The loss of the services of one or more of the members of our senior management or other key personnel, including as a result of our inability to renew the Bermudian work permit of such individual, or our inability to hire and retain other senior management and other key personnel, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and, consequently, significantly and negatively affect our business.The integration of new operations may expose us to operational risks.21Table of Contents Over the past several years, we have grown through acquisitions and by expanding our lines of business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including operational, strategic and financial risks, such as potential liabilities associated with the acquired business. We may experience difficulties in integrating an acquired company, which could adversely affect the acquired company’s performance or prevent us from realizing anticipated synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies. Our existing businesses could also be negatively impacted by acquisitions. Expanding our lines of business, expanding our geographic reach and entering into joint ventures or partnerships also involve operational, strategic and financial risks, including retaining qualified management and implementing satisfactory budgetary, financial and operational controls. Our failure to manage successfully these risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or business or we may not realize any of the intended benefits.We may require additional capital and credit in the future, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms or at all.We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses including our insurance and reinsurance obligations, as well as our interest on our debt and dividends. To the extent that we experience significant losses from our operations or funds generated by our ongoing operations are insufficient to fund our operating expenses, we may need to raise additional capital. The worldwide financial markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption for the last few years, which may reduce our access to the equity and debt markets and make raising capital on satisfactory terms difficult or impossible. Our access to funds under our existing credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may fail or may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. The banking industry also has experienced significant consolidation in the past few years, which could lead to increased reliance on and exposure to particular institutions. Our inability to obtain adequate capital and credit could have a significant and negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We could incur substantial losses and reduced liquidity if one of the financial institutions we use in our operations fails.We maintain cash balances, including restricted cash held in premium trust accounts, significantly in excess of the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits at various U.S. depository institutions. We also maintain cash balances in foreign banks and institutions. If one or more of these financial institutions fails, our ability to access cash balances might be temporarily or permanently limited, which could have a significant and negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Currency fluctuations could result in exchange losses and our failure to effectively manage our multiple currency assets or liabilities could significantly and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.A portion of our investments, insurance and reinsurance liabilities and insurance and reinsurance assets are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. We purchase fixed maturities denominated in the currencies of the relevant insurance and reinsurance liabilities to manage our multiple currency exposures. We monitor those assets and liabilities to reduce our exposure to currency risk; however, mismatches in multiple currency assets and liabilities may give rise to currency losses that could significantly and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.We publish our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates used to convert other currencies, particularly the Euro and British pound sterling, into U.S. dollars will impact our results of operations and financial condition from year to year.Our failure to maintain sufficient letter of credit facilities or to increase our letter of credit capacity on commercially acceptable terms could significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy.Our principal reinsurance operations are conducted by our companies licensed and operated in Bermuda, Ireland, the United States and the United Kingdom. Many jurisdictions do not permit ceding companies to take statutory credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted reinsurers, such as Alterra Bermuda, Alterra Europe and Alterra Re USA, in their statutory financial statements unless appropriate security measures are implemented. Consequently, the majority of our reinsurance clients typically require us to obtain a letter of credit or provide other collateral through funds withheld or trust arrangements. When we obtain a letter of credit facility, we are required to provide collateral to secure our obligations under the facility.As of December 31, 2012, we had two U.S. dollar denominated letter of credit facilities totaling $1,175.0 million with an additional $500.0 million available subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2012, we had $670.9 million in letters of credit outstanding under these facilities. We had a British pound sterling denominated letter of credit facility of GBP 30.0 million ($48.8 million) to support our London branch of Alterra Europe, of which GBP 16.8 million ($27.3 million) was utilized as of December 31, 2012. Our failure to maintain our letter of credit facilities or to increase our letter of credit capacity 22Table of Contents on commercially acceptable terms when necessary could significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy.Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may not be indicative of our long-term prospects.Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period. These fluctuations result from a variety of factors, including the seasonality of the insurance and reinsurance business, the volume and mix of insurance and reinsurance products that we write, loss experience on our insurance and reinsurance contracts, the performance of our investment portfolio and our ability to assess and integrate our risk management strategy effectively. In particular, we seek to underwrite business and make investments to achieve long-term results. As a result, our short-term results of operations may not be indicative of our long-term prospects.We are a holding company that depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends.Alterra is a holding company and does not have any significant operations or assets other than its ownership of the shares of its subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our subsidiaries are our primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including future debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Some of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions that limit their ability to declare and pay dividends. In addition, certain of Alterra Bermuda’s credit facilities prohibit Alterra Bermuda from paying dividends at any time that Alterra’s shareholders’ equity or Alterra Bermuda’s shareholders’ equity is less than a specified amount, as well as in certain other circumstances. The inability of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have an adverse effect on our operations and our ability meet our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders.The payment of dividends and making of distributions by Bermuda legal entities are limited under Bermuda law. Alterra Bermuda is prohibited from declaring or paying dividends if it is in breach of its enhanced capital requirement, solvency margin or minimum liquidity ratio or if the declaration or payment of such dividend would cause such a breach. Where an insurer fails to meet its solvency margin or minimum liquidity ratio on the last day of any financial year, it is prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends during the next financial year without the approval of the Bermuda Monetary Authority, or BMA. Further, Alterra Bermuda is prohibited from declaring or paying in any financial year dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus unless it files with the BMA an affidavit stating that it will continue to meet its solvency margin or minimum liquidity ratio. Alterra Bermuda must obtain the BMA’s prior approval for a reduction by 15% or more of the total statutory capital as set forth in its previous year’s financial statements. In addition, as a long-term insurer, Alterra Bermuda may not declare or pay a dividend to any person other than a policyholder unless the value of the assets in its long-term business fund exceeds the liabilities of the insurer’s long-term business by the amount of the dividend and at least the prescribed minimum solvency margin.Our failure to comply with covenants contained in our indentures or our credit facilities could trigger prepayment obligations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We currently guarantee the senior notes issued by certain of our subsidiaries. The indentures governing those senior notes contain covenants that impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries with respect to, among other things, the incurrence of liens and the disposition of capital stock of these subsidiaries. In addition, each of our credit facilities requires us and/or certain of our subsidiaries to comply with certain covenants, including the maintenance of a minimum consolidated net tangible worth and restrictions on the payment of dividends. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under the indentures or credit facilities, which could result in us being required to repay the notes or any amounts outstanding under these facilities prior to maturity. These prepayment obligations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.The failure or breach of our information technology systems could adversely affect our business or our reputation. We rely on our information technology systems for various aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, underwriting insurance and reinsurance policies and providing quotes, conducting financial reporting and analysis, processing and paying claims, making changes to existing policies and storing our records. These systems also allow us to interact with our employees as well as our brokers and producers. A failure of these information technology systems, whether because of a breakdown, power outage, a natural catastrophe or a computer virus, could adversely affect our relationships with key business partners or customers and adversely affect our reputation and our ability to conduct business. Risks Related to Our InvestmentsChanges in market interest rates and general economic conditions could have a significant and negative effect on our investment portfolio, investment income and results of operations.23Table of Contents Our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investments are subject to market wide risks and fluctuations. Increasing market interest rates reduce the value of our fixed maturities, and we may realize a loss if we sell fixed maturities whose value has fallen below their acquisition cost. Declining market interest rates can have the effect of reducing our investment income, as we invest proceeds from positive cash flows from operations and reinvest proceeds from maturing and called investments in new investments that may yield less than our investment portfolio’s average rate of return. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We attempt to mitigate interest rate risk by monitoring the duration and structure of our investment portfolio relative to the duration and structure of our liability portfolio; however, our estimates of the duration and structure of our liability portfolio may be inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the liability. Any measures we take that are intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment may not effectively mitigate such interest rate sensitivity. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could have a significant and negative effect on our investment portfolio, financial condition and results of operations.Disruptions in the public debt and equity markets, including widening of credit spreads, bankruptcies and government intervention in large financial institutions, could result in significant realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a significant and negative effect on our investment portfolio, results of operations and financial condition.Unexpected volatility or illiquidity associated with our fixed maturities investment portfolio could significantly and negatively affect our investment portfolio, results of operations and financial condition.Our fixed maturities portfolio investment strategy requires a minimum weighted average credit quality rating of Aa3/AA-, or its equivalent, from at least one internationally recognized statistical rating organization. Market conditions and other factors beyond our control could cause the credit quality rating of our investments to deteriorate. Deterioration of credit ratings on our fixed maturities investments may result in the need to liquidate these securities in the financial markets. If we are required to liquidate these securities during a period of tightening credit in the financial markets, we may realize a significant loss. In addition, our fixed maturities portfolio includes below investment grade and unrated securities that have a greater risk of default than higher rated securities.Our fixed maturities portfolio includes mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. These types of securities have cash flows that are backed by the principal and interest payments of a group of underlying mortgages or other receivables. As a result of the increasing default rates of borrowers, there is a greater risk of default on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations than historically existed, especially those that are non-investment grade. These factors make the estimate of fair value more uncertain. We obtain fair value estimates from multiple independent pricing sources to corroborate the fair value we record and in an effort to mitigate some of the uncertainty surrounding the fair value estimates. If we need to liquidate these securities within a short period of time, the actual realized proceeds may be significantly different from the fair values estimated at December 31, 2012.The financial crisis in Europe, including the threat of default on European sovereign debt, the devaluation of the Euro and the dissolution of the European Union, could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.A number of European Union member states, namely Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, have recently undertaken financial restructuring efforts in order to avoid insolvency and default on their sovereign debt. The failure of these restructuring efforts could have an adverse effect on the portion of our investment portfolio held in sovereign debt issued by European Union members. Furthermore, the failure of the European Union member states to successfully resolve this crisis could result in the devaluation of the Euro. In addition to European sovereign debt, we have other assets in our investment portfolio that are Euro-denominated. As of December 31, 2012, $958.7 million (€727.2 million) by carrying value of our invested assets were denominated in Euros. A devaluation of the Euro could lead to a significant decline in the value of these assets.It is possible that this financial crisis may lead to the abandonment of the Euro by one or more members of the European Union or the dissolution of the European Union. The European Union member states have implemented a regulatory scheme that facilitates our ability to operate across Europe. The dissolution of the European Union and the absence of this regulatory scheme could negatively affect our ability to operate across Europe.It is impossible to predict all of the consequences that the potential default by European Union member states on sovereign debt, the devaluation or abandonment of the Euro or the dissolution of the European Union may have on the global economy in general or more specifically on our business. Any or all of these events could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, liquidity and financial condition.24Table of Contents The determination of the impairments taken on our investments is subjective and could materially impact our financial position or results of operations.The determination of the impairments taken on our investments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. We cannot assure you that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, which could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments.Our valuation of fixed maturity securities and hedge fund investments include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.Fixed maturity and hedge fund investments, which are reported at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet, represent the majority of our total cash and invested assets. Fair value prices for all securities in the fixed maturities portfolio are independently provided by our investment custodians, investment accounting service provider and investment managers, which each utilize internationally recognized independent pricing services. We record the unadjusted price provided by our primary pricing source, which may be the investment custodian or the investment accounting service provider, after an internal validation process.Investments in hedge funds comprise a portfolio of limited partnerships and stock investments in trading entities, or funds, which invest in a wide range of financial products. The units of account that are fair valued are our interest in the funds and not the underlying holdings of such funds. As a result, the inputs we use to value our investment in each of the funds may differ from the inputs used to value the underlying holdings of such funds. These funds are stated at fair value, which ordinarily will be the most recently reported net asset value as advised by the fund manager or administrator, where the funds underlying holdings can be in various quoted and unquoted investments.During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, such as mortgage backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. In addition, there may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to changes in the financial environment. In such cases, more securities may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods that are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values that may be greater than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a significant and negative effect on our investment portfolio, financial condition and results of operations.Unexpected volatility or illiquidity associated with our hedge fund investment portfolio could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct business.As of December 31, 2012, our allocation to hedge fund investments was approximately 3.7% of total invested assets, although our investment guidelines permit us to invest up to 15% of our investment portfolio in alternative investments, including hedge funds. We invest in various hedge funds, which follow investment strategies that involve investing in a broad range of investments, some of which may be volatile. The risks associated with our hedge fund investment portfolio may be substantially greater than the risks associated with fixed maturities investments. Further, because many of the hedge funds in which we invest impose limitations on the timing of withdrawals, or may suspend withdrawals for a period of time, we may be unable to withdraw our investment from a particular hedge fund on a timely basis. Unexpected volatility or illiquidity associated with our hedge fund investment portfolio could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct business.The failure of our investment managers to perform their services effectively could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct business.We have entered into investment management agreements with a number of managers to manage our aggregate fixed maturities portfolio. Additionally, each underlying hedge fund manager for our hedge fund investment portfolio has discretionary authority over the portion of our underlying hedge fund investment portfolio that it manages. As a result, the aggregate performance of our investment portfolio depends to a significant extent on the ability of our investment managers, and the investment managers of each underlying hedge fund, to select and manage appropriate investments. The failure of these 25Table of Contents investment managers to perform their services in a manner consistent with our expectations and investment objectives could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct our business.Risks Related to Regulation of Our CompanyThe regulatory systems under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a significant and negative effect on our business.Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries operate in numerous countries around the world as well as in all 50 U.S. states. The insurance and reinsurance industry is generally heavily regulated, and our operations in each of these jurisdictions are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled require these companies to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, meet solvency standards, submit to periodic examinations of their financial condition and restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries also are subject to laws and regulations that may restrict the ability of these companies to write insurance and reinsurance policies, make certain investments and distribute funds.In recent years, the insurance regulatory environment has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions. In July 2010, the U.S. government passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, one of the most sweeping financial reforms in decades. The legislation is expected to affect virtually every segment of the financial services industry, including the insurance and reinsurance industry in the United States. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act created the Federal Insurance Office to be located within the U.S. Treasury department, with the authority to monitor nearly all aspects of the insurance industry and the Dodd-Frank Act contemplates changes to the regulatory framework for non-admitted insurance and reinsurance. In April 2009, the European Union parliament adopted the Solvency II Directive, which enhances the capital and solvency framework applicable to insurance and reinsurance companies. Although the envisaged implementation date of January 1, 2014 will not be met, when the legislation and accompanying regulation does become effective, we expect that it will substantially increase the level of regulation on our European operations, including Alterra Europe and Alterra at Lloyd’s. In an effort to achieve equivalency with the Solvency II Directive, the BMA has enacted regulations that enhance the capital and solvency framework to ensure that insurers maintain adequate capital and liquidity levels proportionate to the insurer’s risk profile and require additional financial and other disclosure. We expect that this regulation will substantially increase the level of regulation of Alterra Bermuda. The BMA also is enacting a group solvency framework that could enhance the required capital and solvency of the Company as a whole. In addition, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, which is the organization of insurance regulators from the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and the four U.S. territories, as well as state insurance regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations.The cost of compliance with existing laws and regulations is expensive, and the costs of compliance with any new legal requirements could have a significant and negative effect on our business. We may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain desired exemptions from, new laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our business. Failure to comply with, or to obtain desired authorizations and/or exemptions under, any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject, or in the interpretations thereof by enforcement or regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business.Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action.All of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements. In the United States, our insurance and reinsurance operating companies are subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by state laws. The risk-based capital standards, or RBC standards, are based upon the Risk-Based Capital Model Act adopted by the NAIC. Alterra Bermuda is subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by the BMA. Alterra Europe is required to maintain statutory reserves, particularly in respect of underwriting liabilities, and a solvency margin as provided for under Irish law.Alterra at Lloyd’s underwriting activities are regulated by the FSA as well as being subject to the Lloyd’s “franchise.” Lloyd’s approves annually the business plan of each of the Syndicates along with any subsequent material changes, and the amount of capital required to support those plans. The FSA requires that the managing agent of the Syndicates carry out a capital assessment of the Syndicates in order to determine whether any additional capital should be held by the Syndicates on account of any particular risks arising from its business or operational infrastructure. Additionally, Lloyd’s insurance and reinsurance business is subject to local regulation. Regulators in the United States require Lloyd’s to maintain certain minimum deposits in trust funds as protection for policyholders in the United States. The FSA requires Lloyd’s to satisfy an annual 26Table of Contents solvency test and to maintain solvency on a continuous basis. The solvency position of each member, and of Lloyd’s as a whole, is monitored on a regular basis.Any failure to meet applicable requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject us to further examination or corrective action by regulators, including limitations on our writing additional business or engaging in finance activities, supervision or liquidation. Further, any changes in existing risk based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we might be unable to do.Political, regulatory and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business.The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework is subject to substantial scrutiny by governmental authorities worldwide. Regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders. Increasingly, governmental authorities seem to be interested in the potential systemic risks posed by the insurance and reinsurance industry as a whole. We cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives; however, we believe it is likely there will be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future and these initiatives could adversely affect our business. For example, we could be adversely affected by proposals that:•provide insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we target;•require our participation in industry pools and guaranty associations;•increasingly mandate the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies;•establish a new federal insurance regulator or financial industry systemic risk regulator;•revise tax laws, including a potential change to U.S. tax laws to disallow or limit the current tax deductions for reinsurance premiums paid by our U.S. subsidiaries to our Bermuda subsidiary for reinsurance it provides to our U.S. subsidiaries; or•disproportionately benefit the companies of one country over those of another.Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results.Unanticipated developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net income, shareholders’ equity and other relevant financial statement line items. In particular, recent guidance and ongoing projects put in place by standard setters globally have indicated a possible move away from the current insurance accounting models toward more “fair value” based models, which could introduce significant volatility in the earnings of insurance industry participants. Furthermore, rules relating to certain accounting practices in the insurance and reinsurance industry are currently being reviewed by applicable regulatory bodies and any changes required by that review could have a material effect on the reported operating results and financial condition of the industry or particular market participants.Risks Related to Our Common SharesOur common shares are subject to limitations on transfer and voting rights and rights of repurchase.Under our bye-laws, our board of directors is authorized to decline to register any transfer of our common shares if they determine that such transfer would result in adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us or any shareholder or if such transfer would result in any U.S. shareholder owning, directly or indirectly, 9.5% or more of our common shares. In addition, under our bye-laws, if our board of directors determines that ownership of any of our common shares may result in adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us or any shareholder or if such ownership would result in any U.S. shareholder owning, directly or indirectly, 9.5% or more of our common shares, we may repurchase the common shares. We are authorized to request information from any holder or prospective acquirer of our common shares as necessary to effect registration of any such transaction and may decline to register any such transaction if complete and accurate information is not received as requested.In addition, our bye-laws generally provide that any U.S. shareholder owning, directly or by attribution, 9.5% or more of our common shares will have the voting rights attached to such common shares reduced such that the common shares will constitute less than 9.5% of the voting power of all of our common shares. Furthermore, our board of directors has the authority to request from any shareholder certain information for the purpose of determining whether that shareholder’s voting rights are to be reduced. Failure to respond to such a notice, or submitting incomplete or inaccurate information, gives the board of directors discretion to disregard all votes attached to such shareholder’s common shares.27Table of Contents U.S. persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation.The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in many U.S. jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong done to a company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of a company, is illegal or would result in the violation of our memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The winning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action. Our bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in the right of the Company, against any director or officer for any act or failure to act in the performance of such director’s or officer’s duties, except with respect to any fraud or dishonesty of such director or officer. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to stockholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action.Anti-takeover provisions contained in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management or delay or prevent the sale of our Company, which could diminish the value of our common shares.Our bye-laws contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in our management or a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, they may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. For example, provisions in our bye-laws that could delay or prevent a change in management or change in control include:•the board is permitted to issue preferred shares and to fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders;•shareholders have limited ability to remove directors;•in order to nominate directors at shareholder meetings, shareholders must own a minimum percentage of our common shares, provide advance notice and furnish certain information with respect to the nominee and any other information as may be reasonably required by the Company;•the total voting power of any U.S. shareholder owning 9.5% or more of our common shares is automatically reduced to less than 9.5% of the total voting power of our capital stock;•if the board determines that the ownership of our common shares by any person may result in adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, our subsidiaries or any shareholder, then the board may, in its discretion and on behalf of the Company, purchase or assign the right to purchase all or a part of the common shares held by such person at fair market value (as defined in our bye-laws); and•the board, in its absolute discretion, may decline to register a transfer of common shares if it has reason to believe that the effect of the transfer would be to increase the total number of common shares owned by any person to 9.5% or higher, that the transfer may expose us, any subsidiary or any shareholder to adverse tax or regulatory treatment or that the registration of the transfer under any federal or state securities law or under the laws of any other jurisdiction is required and the registration has not yet been effected.Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control of our company.Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, the state insurance commissioner will consider such factors as the financial strength of the acquirer, the integrity and management of the acquiror’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquirer’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurers and any anti-competitive results that many arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. Because a person acquiring 10% or more of our common shares would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of our U.S. subsidiaries, the insurance change of control laws of Connecticut and Delaware would likely apply to such a transaction. Under the Delaware and Connecticut insurance holding company system laws, acquiring 10% or more of the voting stock of a domestic insurance company or any of its parent companies is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting securities of Alterra without the prior approval of the Delaware and/or Connecticut Insurance Commissioner, will be in violation of these laws and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of 28Table of Contents those securities by the applicable state insurance commissioner. In addition, many U.S. state insurance laws require prior notification of state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove a change of control, they authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of Alterra may require prior notification in those U.S. states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification laws.Anyone acquiring or disposing of a direct or indirect holding in an Irish authorized insurance company that represents 10% or more of the capital or of the voting rights of such company or that makes it possible to exercise a significant influence over the management of such company, or anyone who proposed to decrease or increase that holding to specified levels, must first notify the Irish regulatory authority of their intention to do so. Any Irish authorized insurance company that becomes aware of any acquisitions or disposal of its capital involving the specified levels must also notify the Irish regulatory authority. The specified levels are 20%, 33% and 50% or such other level or ownership that results in the company becoming the acquirer’s subsidiary. The Irish regulatory authority has three months from the date of submission of a notification within which to oppose the proposed transaction if the Irish regulatory authority is not satisfied as to the suitability of the acquirer in view of the necessity “to ensure prudent and sound management of the insurance undertaking concerned.”The BMA maintains supervision over the controllers of all registered insurers in Bermuda. A controller includes among other things a 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% shareholder controller. The definition of shareholder controller is set out in the Bermuda Insurance Act but generally refers to (i) a person who holds 10% or more of the shares carrying rights to vote at a shareholders' meeting of the registered insurer or its parent company, or (ii) a person who is entitled to exercise 10% or more of the voting power at any shareholders' meeting of such registered insurer or its parent company or (iii) a person who is able to exercise significant influence over the management of the registered insurer or its parent company by virtue of its shareholding or its entitlement to exercise, or control the exercise of, the voting power at any shareholders' meeting. Any person who becomes a holder of at least 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% of a Bermuda insurance company must notify the BMA in writing within 45 days of becoming such a holder. The BMA may file a notice of objection to any person who has become a controller where it appears that such person is not, or is no longer, a fit and proper person to be a controller of the registered insurer. In such a case, the BMA may require the holder to reduce their shareholding and may direct, among other things, that holder may not exercise their voting rights in the company.These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of the Company, including transactions that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.Investors may have difficulty effecting service of process on us or enforcing judgments against us in the United States.We are incorporated pursuant to the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a significant portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. Accordingly, we have been advised that there is doubt as to whether:•a holder of our common shares would be able to enforce, in the courts of Bermuda, judgments of U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws; or•a holder of our common shares would be able to bring an original action in the Bermuda courts to enforce liabilities against us or our directors and officers who reside outside the United States, based solely upon U.S. federal securities laws.We have also been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Furthermore, certain remedies available under U.S. federal and state laws, including U.S. federal securities laws, may not be available under Bermuda law. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for shareholders to recover against us based upon such judgments.Certain of our shareholders and directors may have conflicts of interest.Certain of our shareholders and directors hold positions, engage in commercial activities and enter into transactions or agreements with us or in competition with us, which may give rise to conflicts of interest. Certain of our directors have sponsored, and may in the future sponsor, other entities engaged in or intending to engage in insurance and reinsurance underwriting, some of which compete or may in the future compete with us. They have also entered into or may in the future enter into agreements with companies that compete or may in the future compete with us. We do not have any agreement or understanding with any of these parties regarding the resolution of potential conflicts of interest. We may not be in a position to influence any party’s decision to engage in activities that would give rise to a conflict of interest.Future issuances of common shares may cause the market price of our common shares to decline.29Table of Contents As of December 31, 2012, we had 96,059,645 common shares outstanding. In addition, 12,557,609 common shares are issuable under currently outstanding stock options and warrants granted to employees and certain of our founders. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The issuance of substantial amounts of our common shares could cause dilution to our shareholders and could adversely affect the price of our common shares.Risks Related to TaxationAlterra and its non-U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation.If Alterra or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, that entity could be subject to U.S. income and branch profits tax on all or a portion of the income that is effectively connected with such trade or business. We intend to operate in a manner such that neither Alterra nor any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries (with certain limited exceptions) will be treated as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States. Accordingly, we do not believe that Alterra or any of such non-U.S. subsidiaries are or will be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on net income. However, this determination is essentially factual in nature, and there are no definitive standards provided by the Internal Revenue Code, regulations or court decisions as to what activities constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, would not find that Alterra or any of such non-U.S. subsidiaries is engaged in a trade or business in the United States. Any such income or branch profits tax could materially adversely affect our results of operations.Even if Alterra and such non-U.S. subsidiaries are not treated as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States, we may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on certain fixed or determinable annual or periodical gains, profits and income (such as dividends and certain interest on investments) derived from sources within the United States. In addition, we are subject to a U.S. excise tax that is imposed on reinsurance and insurance premiums received with respect to risks or insureds located in the United States.We might experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations if companies in our group that are incorporated outside a relevant jurisdiction are determined to be carrying on a trade or business there.Although we operate globally, we intend to operate in such a manner that (other than in limited exceptions) our companies will not be considered resident for tax purposes or be deemed to have a permanent establishment in jurisdictions other than those of their formation. Nevertheless, tax rules and interpretations are uncertain and the operations of these companies often involve activities in higher tax jurisdictions. As a result, the taxing authorities in those jurisdictions may assert that the activities of one or more of these companies creates a sufficient nexus in that jurisdiction to subject the company to income and other taxes in that jurisdiction. Accordingly, we could incur substantial unexpected tax liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Shareholders who are U.S. persons may recognize income for U.S. federal income tax purposes on our undistributed earnings.Shareholders who are U.S. persons may recognize income for U.S. federal income tax purposes on our undistributed earnings if we are treated as a passive foreign investment company or a controlled foreign corporation or if we have generated more than a permissible amount of related person insurance income. In addition, gain on the disposition of our common shares may be treated as dividend income.Passive Foreign Investment Company. In order to avoid significant potential adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for any U.S. person who owns our common shares, we must not constitute a passive foreign investment company in any year in which such U.S. person is a shareholder. Those consequences could include increasing the tax liability of the investor, accelerating the imposition of the tax and causing a loss of the basis step-up on the death of the investor. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is a passive foreign investment company for a taxable year if 75% or more of its income constitutes passive income or 50% or more of its assets produce passive income. Passive income generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income. However, passive income does not include income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a company that is predominantly engaged in an insurance business. This exception is intended to ensure that income derived by a bona fide insurance company is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. Currently, we do not believe that we maintain financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of our insurance business. If, because of a change in the business plan or for any other reason, we maintain excess financial reserves, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Although Alterra’s insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, which we refer to as the Insurance Subsidiaries, expect to engage predominantly in insurance activities that involve significant risk transfer and do not expect to have financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of their insurance businesses, we could nonetheless be deemed to be a passive foreign investment company. We may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company if any Insurance Subsidiary engages in certain non-traditional insurance activities that do not involve sufficient transfer of risk or if any 30Table of Contents company maintains financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of its respective insurance business. In addition, there may be other circumstances that may cause us not to satisfy the exception for insurance companies. For example, the IRS may disagree with our interpretation of the current scope of the active insurance company exception and successfully challenge our position that we qualify for the exception. In addition, the IRS may issue regulatory or other guidance that applies on either a prospective or retroactive basis under which we may fail to qualify for the active insurance company exception. While we do not believe that we are or will be a passive foreign investment company, we cannot assure shareholders that the IRS or a court will concur that we are not a passive foreign investment company with respect to any given year. If we were treated as a passive foreign investment company, the availability of the mark to market election is uncertain for shareholders who are U.S. persons. This election may under certain circumstances mitigate the negative tax consequences of an investment in a passive foreign investment company.Controlled Foreign Corporation. Each U.S. person who, directly, indirectly, or through attribution rules, owns 10% or more of our common shares should consider the possible application of the controlled foreign corporation rules. Each U.S. 10% shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation on the last day of the controlled foreign corporation’s taxable year generally must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro-rata share of the controlled foreign corporation’s subpart F income, even if the subpart F income has not been distributed. In general, a non-U.S. insurance company is treated as a controlled foreign corporation only if such U.S. 10% shareholders collectively own more than 25% of the total combined voting power or total value of the company’s capital stock for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any year. We believe that, because of the dispersion of share ownership among our shareholders and because of the restrictions in our bye-laws on ownership of our common shares, shareholders will not be subject to treatment as U.S. 10% shareholders of a controlled foreign corporation. In addition, because under our bye-laws no single shareholder is permitted to exercise 9.5% or more of the total combined voting power, we believe that our shareholders should not be viewed as U.S. 10% shareholders of a controlled foreign corporation for purposes of the controlled foreign corporation rules. We cannot assure shareholders, however, that these rules will not apply to our shareholders.Related Person Insurance Income. If any Insurance Subsidiary’s related person insurance income determined on a gross basis were to equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds and persons related to such insureds were directly or indirectly to own more than 20% of the voting power or value of such Insurance Subsidiary’s capital stock, then a U.S. person who owns our common shares directly or indirectly on the last day of the taxable year most likely would be required to include in income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the U.S. person’s pro-rata share of such Insurance Subsidiary’s related person insurance income for the taxable year, determined as if such related person insurance income were distributed proportionately to such U.S. person at that date. Related person insurance income is generally underwriting profits and related investment income attributable to insurance or reinsurance policies where the direct or indirect insureds are direct or indirect U.S. shareholders or are related to such direct or indirect U.S. shareholders. We do not expect any Insurance Subsidiary will knowingly enter into insurance or reinsurance agreements in which, in the aggregate, the direct or indirect insureds are, or are related to, owners of 20% or more of our common shares. Currently, we do not believe that the 20% gross insurance income threshold has been met. However, we cannot assure shareholders that this is or will continue to be the case. Consequently, we cannot assure shareholders that a person who is a direct or indirect U.S. shareholder will not be required to include amounts in its income in respect of related person insurance income in any taxable year.If a U.S. shareholder is treated as disposing of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation that has related person insurance income and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the voting power or value of the company’s capital stock, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as dividend income to the extent of the U.S. shareholder’s portion of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the U.S. shareholder owned the shares. In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the direct or indirect U.S. shareholder. These rules should not apply to dispositions of our common shares because Alterra is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business and because proposed U.S. Treasury regulations applicable to this situation appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure shareholders, however, that the IRS will interpret the proposed regulations in this manner or that the proposed regulations will not be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our common shares.U.S. tax-exempt organizations who own our common shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income.A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our subpart F insurance income is allocated to the organization. In general, subpart F insurance income will be allocated to a U.S. tax-exempt organization if either we are a controlled foreign corporation and the tax-exempt shareholder is a U.S. 10% shareholder or there is related person insurance income and certain exceptions do not apply. Although we do not believe that any U.S. persons will be allocated subpart F insurance income, we cannot assure shareholders that this will be the case.31Table of Contents Changes in U.S. tax laws or new U.S. tax laws could subject us and/or U.S. persons who own our common shares to U.S. income taxation on our undistributed earnings.The tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business, is a passive foreign investment company, is a controlled foreign corporation, or has related party insurance income are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. It is possible that the IRS may issue new regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules. We are not able to predict if, when or in what form any such guidance will be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. In addition, the IRS may issue tax rules and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business.We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which would have a significant and negative effect on our business and results of operations.Under current Bermuda law, there is no income, corporate, profits, withholding, capital gains or capital transfer tax payable by Alterra or its Bermuda based subsidiaries. Each of these entities has obtained from the Minister of Finance under The Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, an assurance that, in the event that Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance, then the imposition of any such tax shall not be applicable to any of these entities, their operations or their shares, debentures or other obligations, until March 31, 2035. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda taxes after March 31, 2035. Our business and results of operations would be significantly and negatively affected if we were to become subject to taxes in Bermuda.The impact of Bermuda’s commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda.The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. According to the OECD, Bermuda is a jurisdiction that has substantially implemented the internationally agreed tax standard and as such is listed on the OECD “white list.” However, we are not able to predict whether any changes will be made to this classification or whether any such changes will subject us to additional taxes.Risks Related to the MergerFailure to complete the Merger or the fact that the Merger is pending could negatively impact the share price of Markel and Alterra and the future business and financial results of Markel and Alterra.The Merger Agreement contains a number of conditions precedent that must be satisfied or waived before the closing of the Merger. Also, the Merger Agreement may be terminated by one or both of the parties under certain circumstances. Further, the ongoing business of Markel and Alterra may be adversely affected by the fact that the Merger is pending or if the Merger is not completed as follows:•the manner in which brokers, insureds, cedants and other third parties perceive Markel or Alterra may be negatively impacted, which in turn could affect the ability of Markel or Alterra to compete for or write newbusiness or obtain renewals in the marketplace;•current and prospective employees of Markel or Alterra may experience uncertainty about their future roleswith either party or the combined company, which may adversely affect the ability of Markel and Alterra toattract and retain key personnel;•the attention of management of Markel and Alterra will be diverted to the Merger or to the integration of thetwo companies after the Merger instead of being directed solely to each company's own operations andpursuit of other opportunities that may be beneficial to such company;•Markel and Alterra will have to pay certain costs relating to the Merger, including legal, accounting andfinancial advisory fees;•Markel or Alterra may be required, in certain circumstances, to pay a termination fee of $94.5 million or$47.25 million to the other party; and•the ratings of either Markel or Alterra or their respective insurance subsidiaries may be adversely affected,which would likely result in a material adverse effect on their respective business, financial condition andoperating results.Once shareholders approve the transaction, the closing may occur even if a more attractive transaction becomes available to a party and its shareholders.32Table of Contents Alterra's shareholders adopted and approved the Merger Agreement and the Merger at the special general meeting held on February 26, 2013. Alterra is required to close the Merger upon the satisfaction of all the other conditions to closing even if, before the closing of the Merger, a superior acquisition proposal is received from a third party or another material intervening event has occurred.Markel and Alterra must obtain various governmental, regulatory and other consents to complete the Merger, which, if delayed, not granted, or granted with unacceptable conditions, may jeopardize or delay the completion of the Merger, result in additional expenditures or resources and/or reduce the anticipated benefits of the Merger.The parties must obtain certain approvals and consents in a timely manner from governmental agencies, including the Connecticut Insurance Department, the Delaware Department of Insurance, the FTC or Antitrust Division, the Central Bank of Ireland, the U.K. Financial Services Authority, the Council of Lloyd's, the Brazilian Private Insurance Superintendency and the Bermuda Monetary Authority before the completion of the Merger. If the parties do not receive these approvals and consents, or do not receive them on terms that satisfy the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, then the parties will not be obligated to complete the Merger. The governmental agencies from which the parties will seek these approvals have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. As a condition to the approval of the Merger, these agencies may impose terms, conditions, obligations or restrictions that could negatively affect the way the combined company conducts business following the Merger. The terms, conditions, obligations or restrictions of such approvals could jeopardize or delay the completion of the Merger or, even if the Merger is completed, could adversely affect the conduct of business following closing of the Merger. The market price of Markel common stock may decline as a result of the sale of common stock by former Alterra shareholders or current Markel shareholders.Following the closing of the Merger, it is estimated that Markel will issue approximately 4.4 million shares of Markel voting common stock, or Markel common stock, to former Alterra shareholders in the Merger. Upon the receipt of shares of Markel common stock in the Merger, the then former holders of Alterra securities may seek to sell their shares of Markel common stock. Current Markel shareholders may also seek to sell shares of Markel common stock following, or in anticipation of, consummation of the Merger. These sales (or the perception that these sales may occur), coupled with the increase in the outstanding number of shares of Markel common stock, may affect the market for, and the market price of, shares of Markel's common stock in an adverse manner.The value of the shares of Markel common stock that the Alterra shareholders receive in the Merger will vary as a result of the fixed exchange ratio and fluctuations in the price of Markel common stock.At the effective time of the Merger, each Alterra common share issued and outstanding immediately before the effective time (excluding any Alterra common shares as to which appraisal rights have been properly exercised under Bermuda law) will be converted into the right to receive shares of Markel common stock equal to the exchange ratio (together with cash in lieu of fractional shares) and $10.00 in cash, without interest. Because the exchange ratio is fixed at 0.04315 shares of Markel common stock for each Alterra common share, the market value of the shares of Markel common stock issued in the Merger will depend upon the market price of a share of Markel common stock at the effective time.The price of shares of Markel common stock on the close of business on December 18, 2012, the business day before the public announcement of the Merger Agreement, was $486.05, and the price of shares of Markel common stock on January 14, 2013, the last practicable trading day for which information was available before first mailing the joint proxy statement/prospectus dated January 18, 2013, was $460.92. If the price of shares of Markel common stock declines, Alterra shareholders will receive less value for their shares upon the closing of the Merger than the value calculated under the exchange ratio on the business day before the date the Merger Agreement was signed, or on February 26, 2013, the date the Alterra special general meeting at which Alterra's shareholders approved the Merger Agreement and the Merger. The market price of shares of Markel common stock may decline following the closing of the Merger for a number of reasons, including if the integration of Markel's and Alterra's businesses is delayed or unsuccessful or the combined company does not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits of the Merger as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by stock market analysts or shareholders, general market conditions, changes in business prospects, catastrophic events, both natural and man-made, and regulatory considerations. Accordingly, shareholders cannot be sure of the market value of the shares of Markel common stock that will be issued in the Merger or the market value of the shares of Markel common stock at any time after the Merger.The Merger Agreement limits each party's ability to pursue alternatives to the Merger.The Merger Agreement contains provisions that make it more difficult for each party to enter into a transaction with a party other than Markel or Alterra, as applicable. These provisions include a general prohibition on soliciting takeover proposals, restrictions on entering into discussions or negotiations, or providing information with respect to, a takeover proposal, the requirement that a party pay a termination fee of $94.5 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated in specified 33Table of Contents circumstances and the requirement that a party submit approval of the stock issuance (in the case of Markel) and the approval and adoption of the Merger Agreement and the Merger (in the case of Alterra) to a vote of its shareholders even if such party's board of directors modifies or withdraws its recommendation with respect to the applicable proposal. Each of Markel and Alterra will be exposed to underwriting and other business risks during the period that each party's business continues to be operated independently from the other.Until the effective time of the Merger, each of Markel and Alterra will operate independently from the other in accordance with such party's distinct underwriting guidelines, investment policies, referral processes, authority levels and risk management policies and practices. As a result, during this period, Markel and Alterra may assume risks that the other party would not have assumed for itself or for the combined company, accept premiums that, in the other party's judgment, do not adequately compensate it for the risks assumed, make investment decisions that would not adhere to the other party's investment policies or otherwise make business decisions or take on exposure that, while consistent with such party's general business approach and practices, are not the same as those of the other party. Significant delays in consummating the Merger will materially increase the risk that either Markel or Alterra will operate its business in a manner that differs from how the business would have been conducted under the combined company.Risks Related to the Combined Company Following the MergerThe price of the combined company's shares of common stock after the Merger may be affected by factors different from those affecting the price of shares of Markel common stock or the value of Alterra common shares before the Merger.Following the completion of the Merger, holders of shares of Markel common stock before the Merger will own shares in the combined company that includes the operations of Alterra, and the former holders of Alterra common shares will own shares in the combined company that includes the operations of Markel. As the businesses of Markel and Alterra are different, the results of operations as well as the price of shares of Markel common stock following the Merger may be affected by factors different from those factors affecting Markel or Alterra as independent stand-alone entities. The integration of Markel and Alterra following the Merger may present significant challenges and costs.Markel and Alterra may face significant challenges, including technical, accounting and other challenges, in combining Markel's and Alterra's operations. Markel and Alterra entered into the Merger Agreement because each company believes that the Merger will be beneficial to it and its respective shareholders. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend in part upon whether Markel will be successful in integrating Alterra's businesses in a timely and efficient manner. Markel may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. The integration of certain operations following the Merger will take time and will require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management's attention from the routine business of the combined company. Any delay or inability of management to successfully integrate the operations of the two companies could compromise the combined company's potential to achieve the long-term strategic benefits of the Merger and could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and operating results of the combined company and the market price of the combined company's shares of common stock.In addition, the combined company will incur integration and restructuring costs following the completion of the Merger as it integrates the businesses of Alterra. Although the parties expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset incremental transaction, integration and restructuring costs over time, neither Markel nor Alterra can give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, if at all.Markel, Alterra or the combined company may lose employees due to uncertainties associated with the Merger and may not be able to hire qualified new employees.The success of the combined company after the Merger will depend in part upon the ability of Markel and Alterra to retain key employees. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense. In addition, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty or difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that Markel, Alterra or the combined company will be able to attract, retain or motivate key employees or qualified new employees. If, despite retention efforts, key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration, the combined company's business could be adversely impacted.Alterra's counterparties to contracts and arrangements may acquire certain rights upon the Merger, which could negatively affect the combined company following the Merger.Alterra or its subsidiaries are parties to numerous contracts, agreements, licenses, permits, authorizations and other arrangements that contain provisions giving counterparties certain rights (including, in some cases, termination rights) upon a “change in control” of Alterra or its subsidiaries. The definition of “change in control” varies from contract to contract, ranging 34Table of Contents from a narrow to a broad definition, and in some cases, the “change in control” provisions may be implicated by the Merger. If a change in control occurs, cedants may be permitted to cancel contracts on a cut-off or run-off basis, and Alterra or certain of its affiliates may be required to provide collateral to secure premium and reserve balances or may be required to cancel and commute a contract, subject to an agreement between the parties that may be settled in arbitration. If a contract is cancelled on a cut-off basis, Alterra may be required to return unearned premiums, net of commissions. In addition, contracts may provide a ceding company with multiple options, such as collateralization or commutation, that would be triggered by a change in control. Collateral requirements may take the form of trust agreements or be funded by securities held or letters of credit. Upon commutation, the amount to be paid to settle the liability for gross loss reserves would typically consider a discount to the financial statement loss reserve value, reflecting the time value of money resident in the ultimate settlement of such loss reserves. In certain instances, contracts contain dual triggers, such as a change in control and a ratings downgrade, both of which must be satisfied for the contractual right to be exercisable.Whether a ceding company would have cancellation rights in connection with the Merger depends upon the language of its agreement with Alterra or its applicable subsidiaries. Whether a ceding company exercises any cancellation rights it has would depend on, among other factors, such ceding company's views with respect to the financial strength and business reputation of the combined company, the extent to which such ceding company currently has reinsurance coverage with the combined company's affiliates, the prevailing market conditions, the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage and the combined company's ratings following the Merger. Alterra cannot currently predict the effects, if any, if the Merger is deemed to constitute a change in control under contracts and other arrangements, including the extent to which cancellation rights would be exercised, if at all, nor the effect on the combined company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, but such effect could be material.The termination of or failure to renew Alterra's and Markel's in-force reinsurance and insurance contracts by the counterparties to such contracts as a result of the Merger could materially adversely affect the business of the combined company.In addition to the fact that a portion of Alterra's in-force reinsurance contracts contain special termination provisions that may be triggered following a change of control, many of these reinsurance contracts as well as most insurance and reinsurance contracts of Markel renew annually, and so whether or not they may be terminated following the Merger, reinsurance cedants or policyholders may choose not to renew these contracts with the combined company. Termination and failure to renew reinsurance or insurance agreements and policies by contractual counterparties could result in a material adverse effect on the combined company's business, financial condition and operating results, as well as on the market value of the combined company's shares of common stock.The combined company shares of common stock to be received by Alterra shareholders as a result of the Merger will have different rights from Alterra common shares.Following completion of the Merger, Alterra shareholders will no longer be shareholders of Alterra, but will instead be shareholders of the combined company. There will be important differences between the current rights of Alterra shareholders and the rights to which such shareholders will be entitled as shareholders of the combined company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.GLOSSARY OF SELECTED INSURANCE INDUSTRY TERMS AND NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Acquisition cost ratio Acquisition cost ratio is calculated by dividing acquisition costs by net premiums earned for property and casualty business. Book value per share Book value per share is calculated as shareholders’ equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding at the balance sheet date. Capacity The percentage of shareholders’ equity, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing or able to place at risk. Case reserves Loss reserves established for individual claims (and as reported by our cedants in the case of reinsurance). 35Table of Contents Combined ratio Combined ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of net losses and loss expense, acquisition costs and general and administrative expenses by net premiums earned for property and casualty business. A combined ratio below 100% indicates profitable underwriting prior to the consideration of investment income. Diluted book value per share Diluted book value per share is calculated as shareholders’ equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding at the balance sheet date, after considering the dilutive effects of stock-based compensation and warrants, calculated using the treasury stock method. Excess and surplus lines insurance Any type of coverage that cannot be placed with an insurer admitted to do business in a certain jurisdiction. Risks placed in excess and surplus lines markets are often unique, unusual or difficult to place in conventional markets due to a shortage of capacity. General and administrative expense ratio General and administrative expense ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of general and administrative expenses by net premiums earned for property and casualty business. Incurred but not reported, or IBNR Incurred but not reported reserves, which include reserves for the following: • Pure incurred but not reported claims; and • Future development on known claims. Loss ratio Loss ratio is calculated by dividing net losses and loss expenses by net premiums earned for property and casualty business. Loss reserve For an individual loss, an estimate of the amount the insurer or reinsurer expects to pay for the reported claim. For total losses, estimates of expected payments for reported and unreported claims. These may include amounts for claims expenses. Monthly net performance Monthly net performance is the total income generated by an investment in the form of interest or dividends and the change in value of that investment in the form of unrealized or realized gains and losses. Net operating income Net income excluding after-tax net realized and unrealized gains or losses on non-hedge fund investments (this includes net realized and unrealized gains or losses on trading securities, net realized gains or losses on available for sale securities, net impairment losses recognized in earnings, earnings from equity method investments and changes in fair value of investment derivatives, catastrophe bonds and structured deposits), after-tax net foreign exchange gains or losses and after-tax merger and acquisition expenses. Net operating return on average shareholders’ equity Net operating return on average shareholders’ equity is calculated by dividing the net operating income by the average shareholders’ equity. Average shareholders’ equity is calculated as the average of the quarterly average shareholders’ equity balances. Non-admitted carrier A non-admitted carrier is not licensed by the state, but is allowed to do business in that state. Non-admitted carriers are not bound by most of the rate and form regulations imposed on standard market companies, allowing them the flexibility to change the coverage offered and the rate charged without time constraints and financial costs associated with the filing process.36Table of Contents Rate of return Rates of return are calculated by dividing monthly net performance by the beginning net asset value of that month. One is then subtracted from the product and the result is multiplied by 100. Return on average shareholders’ equity Return on average shareholders’ equity is calculated by dividing net income by the average of the beginning and ending shareholders’ equity. Average shareholders’ equity is calculated as the average of the quarterly average shareholders’ equity balances.