ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR CLASSMATES MEDIA SEGMENT We expect to face increasing competition that could result in a loss of users and reduced revenues and decreased profitability. The market for our services is competitive, and we expect competition to significantly increase in the future. Our social networking services compete with a wide variety of social networking Web sites, including broad social networking Web sites such as MySpace and Facebook; a number of specialty Web sites, including LinkedIn, Reunion.com and Monster.com's Military.com service, that offer online social networking services based on school, work or military communities; and an increasing number of schools, employers and associations that maintain their own Internet-based alumni information services. We also compete with a wide variety of Web sites that provide users with alternative networks and ways of locating and interacting with acquaintances from various affiliations, including Web portals such as Yahoo!, MSN and AOL, and online services designed to locate individuals such as White Pages and US Search. As Internet search engines continue to improve their technology and their ability to locate individuals, including by finding individuals through their profiles on social networking Web sites, these services will increasingly compete with our services. As a result of the growth of the social networking market and minimal barriers to entry, a number of companies are attempting to enter our market, either directly or indirectly, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. In addition, many existing social networking services are broadening their service offerings to compete with our services. As we broaden our services and also evolve into a service used for meeting new people with similar interests or affiliations, we may compete with the increasing number of social networking Web sites for special niches and areas of interest. The market for loyalty marketing services is highly competitive, and we expect competition to significantly increase in the future as loyalty marketing programs grow in popularity. Our MyPoints loyalty marketing business faces competition for members from several other online loyalty marketing programs, including Ebates, Upromise and FatWallet. We also face competition from offline loyalty marketing programs that have a significant online presence, such as those operated by credit card, airline and hotel companies. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name and brand recognition, larger user bases, significantly greater financial, technical, sales, and marketing resources, and engage in more extensive research and development than we do. Some of our competitors also have lower customer acquisition costs than we do and offer a wider variety of services. If our competitors are more successful than we are in attracting users, our ability to maintain a large and growing user base will be adversely affected. Some of our social networking competitors have more compelling Web sites with more extensive user-generated content and offer their services free to their users. If our social networking services are not as compelling and we do not stay current with evolving consumer trends, we may not succeed in maintaining or increasing our membership base. If our competitors provide similar services for free, we may not be able to charge for any of our services. Competition could have a material adverse affect on our subscription revenues from social networking services, as well as on advertising revenues from our social networking and loyalty marketing services. More intense competition could also require us to increase our marketing expenditures. As a result of competition, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Failure to increase or maintain the number of pay accounts for our social networking services could cause our business and financial results to suffer. We may not be successful in increasing or maintaining the number of pay accounts for our social networking services. Only a small percentage of members initially registering for our social networking services sign up for a paid subscription at the time of registration. As a result, our ability to generate 17 subscription revenue is highly dependent on our ability to convince free members to return to our Web sites and become pay accounts. The number of free members returning to our Web sites has decreased from time to time, and if we were to continue to experience such decreases, it would likely adversely impact our number of pay accounts. Although we have recently experienced an increase in the number of pay accounts, this trend may not continue at the same rate, or at all. We believe that most of our pay accounts elect to purchase our services as a result of a limited number of features. For example, we believe that our Classmates digital guestbook feature is responsible for a significant portion of the increase in our new pay accounts since the end of 2006. In addition, international pay accounts are becoming an increasingly large component of our pay account mix and have constituted a significant portion of our growth in pay accounts. If our social networking pay features are not as compelling and we do not stay current with evolving consumer trends, our free members may not subscribe for our pay features. Any decrease in our conversion rate of free members to pay accounts could adversely affect our business and financial results. A number of our social networking pay account subscriptions each month are not renewed or are cancelled which we refer to as "churn." The level of churn we experience fluctuates from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, including our mix of subscription terms, which affects the timing of subscription expirations. We must continually add new social networking pay accounts both to replace pay accounts who churn and to grow our business beyond our current pay account base. We expect that our churn rate will continue to fluctuate from period to period. A significant majority of our pay accounts are on plans that automatically renew at the end of their subscription period and we have received complaints with respect to our renewal policies. Any change in our renewal policies or practices could have a material impact on our churn rate. If we experience a higher than expected level of churn, it will make it more difficult for us to increase or maintain the number of pay accounts for our services, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our financial results. Failure to increase or maintain the number of free members for our social networking services could cause our business and financial results to suffer. The success of our social networking services depends upon our ability to increase or maintain our base of free members because we generate new pay accounts and advertising revenues from our free member base. Our ability to increase our base of free members is dependent upon attracting users to our Web sites. From time to time, we have experienced decreases in the number of new free member registrations, and we may not be able to increase or maintain the level of new free member registrations. Failure to increase or maintain our base of free members could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to implement our strategies, and our financial results. We use online advertising to promote our social networking services to potential new free members. Most of our online advertising arrangements are structured such that we pay a fee for each new free account registration generated through a particular advertisement. The cost of online advertising has generally been increasing in recent periods, which has resulted in an increase in our marketing expenditures. If the cost of online advertising continues to escalate, we may experience decreases in the number of new account registrations unless we increase our marketing expenditures. Increases in our marketing expenditures could adversely impact our profitability, and there can be no assurance that our marketing activities will be successful. If we are not successful in increasing or maintaining the number of our loyalty marketing service members, and in convincing members to actively participate in our program, our business and financial results will suffer. The success of our MyPoints loyalty marketing service is dependent upon our ability to maintain and expand our active member base. The majority of our new loyalty marketing members are derived 18 from a limited number of co-registration sources, which are services that generate new member registrations for MyPoints and unrelated third-party services. The loss of any of these sources of new member registrations, a decrease in the number of new members acquired through these sources or an increase in the cost to acquire new members through these sources could have an adverse affect on our loyalty marketing service. In addition, we generate a significant portion of our loyalty marketing service revenues from the activity of a small percentage of MyPoints members. If the advertising campaigns directed to our MyPoints members and the rewards offered are not sufficiently compelling, we may not be able to maintain or increase the percentage of our MyPoints members who actively participate in our loyalty marketing service. If we are unable to increase or maintain the number of new MyPoints members and convince existing members to actively participate in our service, our business and financial results would be adversely affected. If our social networking members do not interact with our Web sites, our business and financial results will suffer. Our success is dependent upon our social networking members interacting with our Web sites. Currently, the network effect on our social networking Web sites is limited, and the vast majority of our member activity is within our high school communities. Our members do not visit our Web sites frequently and spend a limited amount of time on our Web sites when they visit. In addition, only a limited number of our social networking members post photographs and information about themselves, engage in message board discussions, view other members' profiles or participate in the other features on our Web sites. If we are unable to convince our members to interact more frequently with our social networking Web sites and to increase the amount of user-generated content they provide, our ability to attract new users to our Web sites, convert free members to pay accounts and attract advertisers to our Web sites will be adversely affected. As a result, our business and financial results will suffer, and we will not be able to grow our business as planned. Our social networking and loyalty marketing businesses rely heavily on email campaigns, and any restrictions on the sending of emails could adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses are highly dependent upon email. Our emails generate the majority of the traffic on our social networking Web sites and are the most important driver of member activity for our loyalty marketing service. Each month, a significant number of email addresses for our social networking and loyalty marketing members become invalid. This disrupts our ability to email these members. Further, social networking members cannot contact or interact online with members with invalid emails, which undermines a key reason that members use our social networking services. Because of the importance of email to our businesses, if we are unable to successfully deliver emails to our members, our revenue and profitability would be adversely affected. The CAN-SPAM Act regulates the distribution of commercial emails. Among other things, the CAN-SPAM Act provides a right on the part of an email recipient to request the sender to stop sending certain categories of email messages. In compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act, we do not send commercial emails to our members if they elect to opt out of receiving these emails, and a significant number of our members have opted out of receiving commercial emails from us. An increase in the number of members who opt out of receiving commercial emails from us could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, voluntary actions by third-parties to block, impose restrictions on, or charge for, the delivery of emails through their email systems could materially and adversely impact our businesses. From time to time, Internet service providers block bulk email transmissions or otherwise experience technical difficulties that result in our inability to successfully deliver emails to our members. Any disruption or restriction on the distribution of emails or increase in the associated costs could adversely impact our ability to continue our email campaigns, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 19 Our international operations and plans for international expansion may not be successful. We have invested significantly in expanding our social networking services into several international markets, primarily Sweden, Germany, France, and Austria, and international pay accounts now constitute a significant portion of our pay account growth. One of our strategies is to continue the expansion of our social networking services into additional international markets. Our international operations, in total, are not currently profitable. We intend to continue to invest in our international operations, including through the expansion of our services into new markets. However, the investment of additional resources may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability, and we may not be successful in expanding into new markets. Managing a global organization can be difficult, time consuming and expensive. We have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions which may increase the risk that any international expansion efforts we undertake will not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations involves additional risks and uncertainties, including: •disruption of our ongoing business and significant diversion of management attention from day-to-day responsibilities; •localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; •lack of familiarity with, and unexpected changes in, foreign regulatory requirements, including in particular those applicable to online commerce; •longer accounts receivable payment cycles, and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable for advertising fees; •difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value-added taxes and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; •the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and legal standards; •increased financial accounting, tax and reporting burdens and complexities; •political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and •reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international operations, our number of pay accounts and our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMUNICATIONS SEGMENT Our business will suffer if we are unable to compete successfully. Our principal Communications services, our Internet access services, compete with many emerging and seasoned competitors, including the following: •established online service and content providers such as AOL, AOL's Netscape subsidiary and MSN; •independent national Internet service providers ("ISPs") such as EarthLink and its PeoplePC subsidiary; •companies combining their resources to offer Internet access services in conjunction with other services such as Yahoo! and AT&T Internet Services, and Yahoo! and Verizon; 20 •national communications companies and local exchange carriers such as AT&T Inc., Qwest Communications International, Inc. and Verizon; •cable companies such as Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable, Inc., Cox Communications, Inc., and Charter Communications, Inc.; •wireless providers, such as Sprint and Clearwire; •local telephone companies; •regional and local commercial ISPs; and •municipalities. Our primary Communications service offering is dial-up Internet access. Our historical success in competing for Internet access subscribers has been based primarily on offering dial-up Internet access services at prices lower than the prices of our principal competitors. However, in the last few years the market has changed dramatically due to a variety of factors including increased availability of broadband services, decreases in broadband pricing and widespread consumer adoption of applications that require a broadband connection. Dial-up Internet access services do not compete favorably with broadband services with respect to connection speed, and dial-up Internet access services no longer have a significant, if any, price advantage over certain broadband services. As a result, dial-up Internet access services have an increasingly difficult time competing with broadband services and the number of dial-up accounts in the United States continues to decline. In addition to competition from broadband providers, competition among dial-up Internet access service providers is intense and neither our pricing nor our features provide us with a significant competitive advantage, if any, over certain of our dial-up competitors. We expect that competition, particularly with respect to price, both for broadband as well as dial-up Internet access services, will continue, and that our dial-up Internet access subscriber base will continue to decrease, potentially at an increasing rate. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we began offering DSL services by purchasing and reselling DSL services acquired through third-party providers. The providers from whom we purchase such services are either our direct competitors or acquire their services from our competitors. We currently have agreements with only a limited number of providers and their services cover only a portion of the U.S. There is no assurance that we will be successful in entering into the agreements necessary to offer DSL services on a significant scale, that we will be able to maintain such agreements or that the pricing under such agreements will enable us to profitably resell the services. Most of the largest providers of broadband services, such as cable and telecommunications companies, control their own networks and offer a wider variety of services than we offer, including phone, data and video services. Their ability to bundle services and to offer broadband services at prices below the price that we can profitably offer comparable services puts us at a competitive disadvantage. Decreases in retail broadband pricing as a result of competition would adversely impact our ability to offer such services profitably or at a competitive price. We only have a limited number of subscribers to our DSL services and there can be no assurance that our DSL services will be commercially successful. In order to compete effectively we may have to make significant revisions to our services, pricing and marketing strategies, and business model. For example, we may have to lower our introductory rates, offer additional free periods of service, offer additional features at little or no additional cost to the consumer, and/or reduce the standard pricing of our services. Measures such as these could decrease our revenues and our average revenue per Internet access pay account. We may also have to allocate more marketing resources toward our Internet access services than we anticipate. All of the foregoing could adversely affect the profitability of our Internet access services which could materially and adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 21 Revenues and profitability of our Communications segment are expected to decrease. Substantially all of our Communications revenues and profits come from our dial-up Internet access services. As a result of expected continued decreases in our dial-up Internet access pay accounts and, potentially, the average monthly revenue per pay account, we expect that our Communications billable services revenues and the profitability of this segment will continue to decline over time. The rate of decline in billable services revenues has accelerated in some periods and may continue to accelerate. We also expect that our Communications advertising revenues will decline. Continued declines, particularly if such declines accelerate, in Communications revenues may materially and adversely impact the profitability of this segment and the Company as a whole. If we are unable to retain users, our business and financial results will suffer. A number of our Communications pay account subscriptions each month are not renewed or cancelled, which we refer to as churn. We have experienced, and will likely continue to experience, a higher percentage of churn with respect to our accelerated dial-up Internet access services than is indicated by our overall Communications churn rate. Our churn, which may be higher in future periods, makes it more difficult to minimize decreases in the number of pay accounts for our Communications services, which adversely impacts our revenues. Each month, a significant number of free dial-up Internet access accounts become inactive and it is likely that we will continue to experience declines in the number of active free accounts. Our Internet access business is dependent on our ability to effectively manage our telecommunications and network capacities. Our Internet access business substantially depends on the capacity, affordability, reliability, and security of our telecommunications networks. Our failure to accurately anticipate our future telecommunications capacity needs within lead-time requirements could result in unnecessary capacity or inadequate service. Only a small number of telecommunications providers offer the network and data services we currently require, and we purchase most of our telecommunications services from a few providers. Some of our telecommunications services are provided pursuant to short-term agreements that the providers can terminate or elect not to renew. Vendors may experience significant financial difficulties and be unable to perform satisfactorily or to continue to offer their services. The loss of vendors has resulted, and may result, in increased costs, decreased service quality and the loss of users. If we are unable to maintain, renew or obtain new agreements with the third-party providers of our telecommunications services, or to secure new or alternative arrangements with other providers, to provide the scope, quantity, quality, type, and pricing of services to meet our current and future needs, our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY We may be unable to maintain or grow our advertising revenues. Reduced advertising revenues may reduce our profits. Advertising revenues are a critical component of our revenues and profitability. Our revenues from advertising have in the past fluctuated, and may in the future fluctuate, due to a variety of factors including, without limitation, the effect of key advertising relationships, competition, changes in our business models, changes in the online advertising market, changes in our advertising inventory, and changes in usage. In particular, we derive significant revenues from search on our Communications services, from post-transaction sales on our Classmates service and from certain other advertising initiatives or partners across our services, and any termination, change or decrease in revenues from these sources could have a material impact on our advertising revenues. The Internet advertising field continues to evolve with many different advertising networks, Web publishers, and other providers 22 competing with one another and providing different types of advertising solutions, and our internal sales force competes with some or all of these solutions for advertising dollars. We also compete with television, radio, print, and other offline sources for advertising dollars. Internet advertising techniques are evolving, and if our technology and advertising serving techniques do not keep up with the needs of advertisers, we will not be able to compete effectively. There can be no assurance our advertising initiatives will be effective or that we will successfully compete with third-parties, and our advertising revenues may decline in future periods. Advertising inventory in our Communications segment continues to decline as a result of the decrease in our pay accounts, and we anticipate decreased advertising revenues in the Communications segment which will adversely impact our profitability. Our business is subject to fluctuations. Our results of operations and changes in the number and mix of pay accounts from period to period have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control and difficult to predict. A number of factors that may impact us are discussed in greater detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, and these factors may affect us from period to period and may affect our long-term performance. As a result, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons as an indication of future or long-term performance. In addition, these factors create difficulties with respect to our ability to forecast our financial performance and business metrics accurately. We believe that these difficulties in forecasting present even greater challenges for financial analysts who publish their own estimates of our future financial results and business metrics. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the expectations or projections made by our management or by the financial analysts. In the event we do not achieve such expectations or projections, our financial results and the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our marketing activities may not be successful. We spend significant funds to market our services and rely on a variety of channels to obtain new accounts. If our marketing activities or our channels prove to be ineffective, or if the cost to acquire new accounts increases, our financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. We may be unsuccessful at acquiring additional businesses, services or technologies. Even if we complete an acquisition, it may not improve our results of operations and may adversely impact our business and financial condition. One of our strategic objectives is to acquire businesses, services or technologies that will provide us with an opportunity to diversify the services we offer, leverage our assets and core competencies, expand our geographic reach or that otherwise may be complementary to our existing businesses. We may not succeed in growing or maintaining our revenues unless we are able to successfully complete acquisitions. The merger and acquisition market for companies offering Internet services is extremely competitive, particularly for companies who have demonstrated a profitable business model with long-term growth potential. Companies with these characteristics trade publicly or are privately valued at multiples of earnings, revenues, operating income, and other metrics significantly higher than the multiples at which we are currently valued. Acquisitions may require us to obtain debt or equity financing, which may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to approvals that are beyond our control. These and other factors may make it difficult for us to acquire additional businesses, services or technologies at affordable prices, or at all, and there is no assurance that we will be successful in completing additional acquisitions. We routinely engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions and any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. However, we cannot 23 assure you that the anticipated benefits of an acquisition will materialize or that any integration attempts will be successful. Acquiring a business, service or technology involves many risks, including: •disruption of our ongoing business and significant diversion of management from day-to-day responsibilities; •acquisition financings that involve the issuance of potential dilutive equity or the incurrence of debt; •reduction of cash and other resources available for operations and other uses; •unforeseen obligations or liabilities; •difficulty assimilating the acquired customer bases, technologies and operations; •difficulty assimilating and retaining employees from the acquired business; •risks of entering markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; •potential impairment of relationships with users, customers or vendors as a result of changes in management of the acquired business; •large write-offs either at the time of the acquisition or in the future, the incurrence of restructuring charges, the amortization of identifiable intangible assets, and the impairment of amounts capitalized as goodwill and other intangible assets; and •lack of, or inadequate, controls, policies and procedures appropriate for a public company, and the time, cost and difficulties related to the implementation or remediation of such controls, policies and procedures. Any of these risks could harm our business and financial results. In addition, an acquisition of a foreign business involves risks in addition to those set forth above, including risks associated with potentially unfamiliar economic, political and regulatory environments and integration difficulties due to language, cultural and geographic differences. We may not successfully develop or acquire and market new services and features in a timely or cost-effective manner; consumers or advertisers may not accept our new services and features. We may not be able to compete effectively if we are not able to timely and cost-effectively adapt to changes in technology and industry standards or develop or acquire and successfully commercialize new and enhanced services and features. New services or features may be dependent on our obtaining needed technology or services from third-parties, which we may not be able to obtain in a timely manner upon terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have expended, and may in the future expend, significant resources enhancing our existing services and features and developing, acquiring and implementing new services or features. Product development involves a number of uncertainties, including unanticipated delays and expenses. New or enhanced services and features may have technological problems or may not be accepted by consumers or advertisers. For example, our VoIP and photo sharing services did not meet with commercial success. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing, acquiring or implementing new or enhanced services or features, or that new or enhanced services or features will be commercially successful. Our business is highly dependent on our billing and customer support systems, and on third-parties for technical support and customer support; our business may suffer if these systems do not function and we cannot perform and provide these services. Customer billing and service are highly complex processes, and our systems must efficiently interface with other third-parties' systems such as the systems of credit card processing companies and other companies to whom we outsource these functions. Our ability to accurately and efficiently bill and service our users is dependent on the successful operation of these systems. We have experienced 24 customer billing and service problems from time to time and may experience additional problems in the future. We currently outsource a majority of our live technical and billing support functions. We rely on one customer support vendor, and its call centers are located in the Philippines and India. As a result, we maintain only a small number of internal customer support personnel. We are not equipped to provide the necessary range of customer support functions in the event that our vendor becomes unable or unwilling to offer these services to us. Problems with our third-party software applications, our internally developed software applications, our credit card processors, our outsourced customer support vendor, other customer billing and support vendors, and any other failures or errors in our customer billing and support systems, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. If our software or hardware contains errors or fails, if we fail to operate our services effectively or if we encounter difficulties integrating our systems and technologies, our business could be seriously harmed. Our services, and the hardware and software systems underlying our services, are complex. Our systems may contain undetected errors or failures and are susceptible to human error. We have in the past encountered, and may in the future encounter, software and hardware errors, system design errors, errors in the operation of our systems, and technical and customer support issues associated with our services and software releases. This has resulted in, and may in the future result in, a number of adverse consequences, which have included or may include: •users being disconnected from our services or being unable to access our services; •loss of data or revenue; •injury to reputation; and •diversion of development resources. A number of our material technologies and systems are based on different platforms. To the extent we attempt to integrate these technologies and systems, we may experience a number of difficulties, errors, failures, and unanticipated costs. In addition, our business relies on third-party software for various applications including, without limitation, our internal operations, our billing and customer support, our accelerated dial-up Internet access services, and our advertising products and services. Any significant failure of this software could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our services also rely on their compatibility with other third-party systems, particularly operating systems. Incompatibility with future changes to third-party software upon which our systems rely could materially affect our ability to deliver our services. We cannot assure you that we will not experience significant technical problems with our services in the future. A security breach or inappropriate access to, or use of, our networks, computer systems or services could expose us to liability, claims or a loss of revenue. The success of our business depends on the security of our networks and, in part, on the security of the network infrastructures of our third-party vendors. Unauthorized or inappropriate access to, or use of, our networks, computer systems or services could potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information, including credit card information, of our users and of third-parties. Third-parties have in the past used our networks, services and brand names to perpetrate crimes, such as identity theft or credit card theft, and may do so in the future. Users or third-parties may assert claims of liability against us as a result of any failure by us to prevent security breaches, unauthorized disclosure of user information or other such activities. Although we use security measures that we believe to be effective by industry standards, we cannot assure you that the measures we take will be successfully implemented or will be effective in preventing these types of activities. We also cannot assure you that the security measures of our third-party network providers, providers of customer and 25 billing support services or other vendors will be adequate. In addition to potential legal liability, these activities may adversely impact our reputation or our revenues and may interfere with our ability to provide our services, all of which could adversely impact our business. Harmful software programs such as viruses could disrupt our business. Our business is dependent on the continued acceptance of the Internet as an effective medium. Damaging software programs, such as computer viruses, worms and Trojan horses, have from time to time been disseminated through the Internet and have caused significant disruption to Internet users. Certain of these programs have disabled the ability of computers to access the Internet, requiring users to obtain technical support in order to gain access to the Internet. Other programs have had the potential to damage or delete computer programs. The development and widespread dissemination of harmful programs has the potential to seriously disrupt Internet usage. If Internet usage is significantly disrupted for an extended period of time, or if the prevalence of these programs results in decreased residential Internet usage, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, actions taken by us or our telecommunications providers to attempt to minimize the spread of harmful programs could adversely impact our users' ability to utilize our services. Our failure to protect our proprietary rights could harm our business. Our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names, and trade secrets are important to the success of our business. We principally rely upon patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret, and contract laws to protect our proprietary technology, all of which provide only limited protection. The protection of our proprietary rights may require the expenditure of significant financial and internal resources. We cannot assure you that we have taken adequate steps to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could adversely affect our brands and could harm our business. Legal actions, particularly those associated with proprietary rights, could subject us to substantial liability and expense and require us to change our business practices. We are currently, and have been in the past, party to various legal actions. These actions include, without limitation, claims by private parties in connection with consumer protection and other laws, claims that we infringe third-party patents, claims in connection with employment practices, securities laws claims, breach of contract claims, and other business-related claims. The nature of our business could subject us to additional claims for similar matters, as well as a wide variety of other claims including, without limitation, claims for defamation, negligence, trademark infringement, copyright infringement, and privacy matters. Various governmental agencies may also assert claims or institute legal actions, inquiries or investigations relating to our business practices, such as our marketing, billing, customer retention, renewal, cancellation, refund, or disclosure practices. Defending against lawsuits, inquiries and investigations involves significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. We may not prevail in existing claims or claims that may be made in the future. The failure to successfully defend against certain types of claims, including claims based on infringement of proprietary rights, could require us to change our business practices or obtain licenses from third-parties, which licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Lawsuits, inquiries and investigations also involve the risk of significant settlements or judgments against us. Both the cost of defending claims, as well as the effect of settlements and judgments, could cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly from period to period and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. 26 We may not realize the benefits associated with our assets and may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we are required to impair our assets. We have capitalized goodwill and other intangible assets in connection with our acquisitions. We evaluate the recoverability of our identifiable intangible assets and other long-lived assets for impairment when events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In addition, we perform an impairment test of our goodwill annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or when events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not indicate that goodwill might be permanently impaired. If our acquisitions are not commercially successful, we would likely be required to record impairment charges which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2006, we impaired certain long-lived assets associated with our VoIP services and certain goodwill and intangible assets associated with the acquisition of our photo sharing services. We have experienced impairment charges in the past, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience such charges in the future. In addition, from time to time, we record assets on our balance sheet that, due to changes in value or in our strategy, may have to be expensed in future periods. Write-downs or impairments of assets, whether tangible or intangible, could adversely and materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to operate our business could be seriously harmed if we lose members of our senior management team or other key employees. Our business is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, particularly Mark R. Goldston, our chairman, president and chief executive officer, and other key personnel. Any of our officers or employees can terminate his or her employment relationship at any time. The loss of any of these key employees or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could seriously harm our business and prospects. We do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. Changes in laws and regulation changes and new laws and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to a variety of international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as user privacy and data protection, defamation, pricing, advertising, taxation, sweepstakes, promotions, billing, content regulation, bulk email or "spam," anti-spyware initiatives, security breaches, and consumer protection. Compliance with the various laws and regulations, which in many instances are unclear or unsettled, is complex. Any changes in such laws and regulations, the enactment of any additional laws or regulations, or increased enforcement activity of such laws and regulations, could significantly impact our costs or the manner in which we conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. The FTC and certain state agencies have investigated Internet companies, including us, in connection with consumer protection and privacy matters. The federal government has also enacted consumer protection laws, including laws protecting the privacy of consumers' nonpublic personal information. Our failure to comply with existing laws, including those of foreign countries in which we operate, the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement policies and procedures regarding the use of personal information or an investigation of our privacy practices could increase the costs of operating our business. To the extent that our services and business practices change as a result of changes in regulations or claims or actions by governmental agencies, such as the FTC, or claims or actions by private parties, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 27 Currently, ISPs are considered "information service" providers and regulations that apply to telephone companies and other telecommunications common carriers do not apply to our Internet access services. However, our Internet access services could become subject to Federal Communications Commission and state regulation as Internet access services and telecommunications services converge. If the regulatory status of ISPs changes, our business may be adversely affected. The Internet Tax Freedom Act, which placed a moratorium on new state and local taxes on Internet commerce, is in effect through November 2014. However, future laws imposing taxes or other regulations on the provision of goods and services over the Internet could make it substantially more expensive to operate our business. Our business could be shut down or severely impacted by a catastrophic event. Our computer equipment and the telecommunications infrastructure of our third-party network providers are vulnerable to damage from fires, earthquakes, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorism, and similar events. We have experienced situations where power loss and telecommunications failures have adversely impacted our services, although to date such failures have not been material to our operations. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, worms, physical and electronic break-ins, sabotage, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering of our computer systems. In addition, a significant portion of our critical computer equipment, including our data centers, is located in areas of the states of California and Washington that are particularly susceptible to earthquakes, and a significant portion of our Classmates subsidiary's computer equipment and data centers are also located in a flood plain. We do not presently maintain redundant capabilities for our Classmates and MyPoints services and a catastrophic event could result in a significant and extended disruption of these services. Currently, we do not have a disaster recovery plan to address these and other vulnerabilities. As a result, it would be difficult to operate the Classmates and MyPoints businesses in the event of a disaster. While we maintain redundant capabilities for our Internet access services, a disaster could result in a significant and extended disruption of these services as well. Any prolonged disruption of our services due to these or other events would severely impact or shut down our business. We do not carry earthquake or flood insurance, and the property, business interruption and other insurance we do carry may not be sufficient to cover, if at all, losses that may occur as a result of any events which cause interruptions in our services. Our business could be severely impacted due to political instability or other factors in India or the Philippines. We have a significant number of employees located in our India office. In addition, a significant portion of our customer support is handled by a third-party vendor with customer support agents located in call centers in India and the Philippines. Our internal product development, customer support and quality assurance operations as well as our third-party vendor's customer support operations would be severely disrupted if telecommunications issues, political instability, labor strife or other factors adversely impacted these operations or the ability to communicate with these operations. Any disruption that continued for an extended period of time would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our customers and develop our products and services. If we or our customer support vendor were to cease operations in India or the Philippines and transfer these operations to another geographic area, such change could result in increased overhead and customer service costs which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. 28 There are risks associated with our strategy of an initial public offering of Classmates Media Corporation. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Classmates Media Corporation, or CMC, filed a registration statement relating to the initial public offering, or IPO, of CMC's Class A common stock. The registration statement was withdrawn in December of 2007 due to then-current market conditions. It is still our strategy to complete an IPO of CMC and we have capitalized approximately $3.6 million of IPO costs at December 31, 2007 which we will have to expense in a future period if we do not proceed with an offering. There is no assurance that an IPO will be completed in the near term, if at all. If we do not complete the IPO, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. If the IPO is completed, CMC would be a new public company. We are unable to predict what the market price of our common stock would be after the IPO. We cannot assure you that the IPO, if completed, will produce any increase for our stockholders in the market value of their holdings in our Company. Additionally, Mark R. Goldston, our chairman, president and chief executive officer, will continue to serve as the chairman, president and chief executive officer of CMC. Although we have an employment agreement with Mr. Goldston, he will not be dedicated to our business on a full-time basis and the loss of his full-time services could harm our business. We cannot predict our future capital needs and we may not be able to secure additional financing. We may need to raise additional funds in the future to fund our operations, for acquisitions of businesses, services or technologies or for other purposes. Additional financing may not be available in a timely manner, on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or not available when required and in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, our business and future prospects may suffer. We may stop paying, or reduce, quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Commencing with the second quarter of 2005, we have declared and paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share of common stock. The payment of future dividends is discretionary and is subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Our future cash flows may significantly decline due to, among other things, declines in our dial-up Internet access business and other factors. In addition, it remains our strategy to complete an IPO of CMC and, if such offering were consummated, we would no longer receive the cash flow from CMC that we historically received. Our cash balances will also decline if we use our cash to acquire businesses, services or technologies, repurchase our common stock or for other purposes. A change in our business needs, including working capital and funding for acquisitions, or a change in tax laws relating to dividends, among other factors, could cause our Board of Directors to decide to cease the payment of, or reduce, the dividend in the future. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends, and if we do not, our stock price could be negatively impacted. We have anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for a third-party to acquire us. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make it difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders because of a premium price offered by a potential acquirer. In addition, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, which is an anti-takeover measure that will cause substantial dilution to a third-party who attempts to acquire our Company on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Our stock price has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our stock began trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market in September 2001 and it may continue to be volatile with extreme trading volume fluctuations. In addition, the Nasdaq Stock Market, where most publicly-held Internet companies are traded, has experienced substantial price and trading volume fluctuations. The broad market and industry factors that influence or affect such fluctuations may harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and for this or other reasons we could suffer significant declines in the market price of our common stock. 29 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 