Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is subject to various risks that could have a material adverse effect on it, including without limitation the following: We are dependent on the performance of a single subsidiary and line of business. The Company's only operating assets are held by its subsidiary CP Technologies, which itself has only one line of business. We have no significant assets or financial resources other than CP Technologies. 5 The Company has a limited operating history in its current business. Prior to January 1, 2010, the Company had never operated a healthcare receivables servicing business. Our business plan must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and problems frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of development. Specifically, such risks include a failure to anticipate and adapt to a developing market and an inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in addressing such risks. To the extent that we are not successful in addressing these risks, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance that the Company will ever achieve or sustain profitability. We are dependent on one customer for all our revenue. Our activities for the foreseeable future will be limited to servicing healthcare receivables, CarePayment, LLC being our only direct customer. Our inability to diversify our activities into a number of areas may subject us to economic fluctuations related to the business of CarePayment, LLC and therefore increase the risks associated with our operations. CarePayment, LLC's ability to acquire receivables for us to service depends on its ability to acquire adequate funding sources. The inability of CarePayment, LLC to acquire a sufficient amount of receivables for us to service would have a material adverse effect on us. A deterioration in the economic or inflationary environment in the United States may have a material adverse effect on us. The Company's performance may be affected by economic or inflationary conditions in the United States. If the United States economy deteriorates or if there is a significant rise in inflation, personal bankruptcy filings may increase, and the ability of healthcare provider customers to pay their debts could be adversely affected. This may in turn adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, revenue and stock price. The recent financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the subsequent increased regulation and oversight of the banking sector have resulted in a tightening in credit markets. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on us. Adequate financing may not be available when needed. Additional sources of funding will be required for us to continue operations. There is no assurance that the Company can raise working capital or that any capital will be available to the Company at all. Failure to obtain financing when needed could result in curtailing operations, acquisitions or mergers, and investors could lose some or all of their investment. We may be unable to manage growth adequately. The implementation of our business plan requires an effective planning and management process. We anticipate significant growth and will need to continually improve our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures on a timely basis and expand, train and manage our personnel. There can be no assurance that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations or that our management will be able to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully implement our business plan. The Company has many conflicts of interest. Most of the Company's agreements are with affiliates. Although we believe that the terms and conditions of the agreements with such parties are fair and reasonable to the Company, such terms and conditions may not be as favorable to us as those that could be obtained from independent third parties. In addition, the Company’s officers and directors participate in other business ventures that may detract from the time and attention they devote to the Company. There is no active public market for our securities. There is currently no active public market for the Company's securities. No predictions can be made as to whether an active trading market will ever develop for any of the Company's securities. The sale of Company securities is not being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“the Securities Act”), or any state securities laws and such securities may not be resold or otherwise transferred unless they are subsequently registered under the Securities Act and applicable state laws, or unless exemptions from registration are available. Accordingly, investors may not be able to liquidate their investment in any of the Company's securities. Rule 144 may not be available for the resale of Company Securities if we fail to comply with applicable Exchange Act filing requirements. Because the Company is a former "shell company" (as defined in the Securities Act), Rule 144 will only be available for the resale of the Company's securities if, at the time of resale, the Company has filed all reports and other materials required to be filed by it pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as applicable (other than Current Reports on Form 8-K), during the 12 months preceding the time of resale. While the Company is currently in compliance with its filing obligations and intends to file all required reports and materials, there can be no assurances that a required report or other materials will be filed as necessary to maintain the availability of the exemption under Rule 144. Any future unavailability of Rule 144 may prevent an investor from liquidating its investment in the Company's securities. 6 The Company does not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of the Company, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on any of our Common Stock or Preferred Stock. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including the Company's financial condition and results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, business prospects and other factors that the Board of Directors considers relevant. Disruptions in service or damages to our data center or operations center, or other software or systems failures, could adversely affect our business. The Company's data center and operations center are essential to our business. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems. We intend to conduct business continuity planning and maintain insurance against fires, floods, other natural disasters and general business interruptions to mitigate the adverse effects of a disruption, relocation or change in operating environment at our offices. However, our planning and insurance coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, could impair or prohibit our ability to provide services and materially adversely impact us. In addition, despite the implementation of security measures, the Company's infrastructure, data center and systems, including the internet and related systems, are vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, denial-of-service attacks, terrorist attacks or other attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any of these can cause system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which can result in service disruptions or increased response time for our products and services. As a result, the Company may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Disruptions in the services provided by third party suppliers could adversely affect our business. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide us with a variety of products and services, including telecommunications and data processing services necessary for operations and software developers for the development and maintenance of certain software products we use to provide solutions. If these suppliers do not fulfill their contractual obligations or choose to discontinue their products or services, our business and operations could be disrupted, our brand and reputation could be harmed and we could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property . We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our technology. We do not currently have any issued patents or registered copyrights, and have only two registered trademarks. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or other proprietary rights, or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology, which could prevent us from successfully growing our business. To the extent we become involved in litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, such litigation could be a lengthy and costly process and divert our effort and resources and the attention of management with no guarantee of success. We face significant competition for our services. The markets for our services are intensely competitive, continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid technological change. We face competition from many servicing and collections companies and other technology companies within segments of the revenue and payment cycle markets. Most of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully with these companies, and these or other competitors may commercialize products, services or technologies that render our services obsolete or less marketable. Some healthcare providers perform the services we offer for themselves. Some healthcare providers perform the services we offer for themselves, or plan to do so, or belong to alliances that perform such services, or plan to do so. The ability of healthcare providers to replicate our services may adversely affect the terms and conditions the Company is able to negotiate in agreements with healthcare providers, or may prevent the Company from negotiating any such agreements. 7 Recent and future developments in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Many healthcare laws are complex and their application to specific services and relationships may not be clear. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years, and the Company expects that significant changes will continue to occur. The timing and effect of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. There can be no assurance that the markets for the services provided by the Company will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in those markets. National healthcare reform legislation was signed into law on March 23, 2010. This reform legislation attempts to address the issues of increasing access to and affordability of healthcare, increasing effectiveness of care, reducing inefficiencies and costs, emphasizing preventive care, and enhancing the fiscal sustainability of the federal healthcare programs. It is not yet clear how this reform legislation may affect the services we provide. In addition, there are currently numerous federal, state and private initiatives and studies seeking ways to increase the use of information technology in healthcare as a means of improving care and reducing costs. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be enacted and implemented, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. These initiatives may result in additional or costly legal and regulatory requirements that are applicable to us and our customers, may encourage more companies to enter our markets, and may provide advantages to our competitors. Any such legislation or initiatives, whether private or governmental, may result in a reduction of expenditures by the customers or potential customers of the healthcare providers serviced by the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if general expenditures by industry constituents remain the same or increase, other developments in the healthcare industry may result in reduced spending on the Company's services or in some or all of the specific markets we serve or are planning to serve. In addition, expectations regarding pending or potential industry developments may also affect the budgeting processes of the healthcare providers serviced by the Company and spending plans with respect to the types of products and services the Company provides. We could face potential liability if health-related information is disclosed. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA") required the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) to adopt standards to protect the privacy and security of individually identifiable health-related information. The privacy regulations extensively regulate the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health-related information and require the implementation of administrative, physical and technological safeguards to protect the privacy of protected health information. The regulations also provide patients with significant rights related to understanding and controlling how their health information is used or disclosed. In 2009 and 2010, the HITECH Act and the rules thereunder augmented the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules by adding breach notification requirements, expanding HIPAA’s reach to business associates, and increasing penalties for noncompliance. On January 17, 2013, HHS released new HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules and a revised sample business associate agreement. These new rules generally go into effect in September 2013. The Company may come into contact with protected health-related information. Although we, and our vendors and agents, will take measures to ensure that we comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including HIPAA, if there is a breach, we may be subject to various penalties and damages and may be required to incur costs to mitigate the impact of the breach on affected individuals. We are subject to laws related to our handling and storage of personal consumer information, violations of which could subject us to potential liability The privacy of consumers’ personal information is protected by various federal and state laws. Any penetration of our network security or other misappropriation of consumers' personal information could subject us to liability. Other potential misuses of personal information, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes, could also result in claims against us. These claims could result in litigation. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and several states have investigated the use by certain internet companies of personal information. We could incur unanticipated expenses, especially in connection with our settlement database, if and when new regulations regarding the use of personal information are enacted. Changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact our operations. Changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. This could affect our results of operations or increase our liabilities. These negative effects could result from changes in collection laws, laws and regulations related to credit reporting or consumer bankruptcy, accounting standards, taxation requirements, employment laws and communications laws, among others. We may become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities. Our industry is relatively new and unique and, as a result, there is not a set of well-defined laws, regulations or case law for us to follow that match our particular facts and circumstances for some tax positions. Therefore, certain tax positions we take are based on industry practice, tax advice and drawing similarities of our facts and circumstances to those in case law relating to other industries. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base and apportionment. Challenges made by tax authorities to our application of tax rules may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions and in inconsistent positions between different jurisdictions on similar matters. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have a material adverse effect on us. 8 As of December 31, 2012, we have no employees and all persons performing services for us are employees of Aequitas . On December 31, 2011, our subsidiary, CP Technologies, entered into the Restated Administrative Services Agreement with Aequitas. In connection with entering into the Restated Administrative Services Agreement, CP Technologies terminated all of its existing employees (the “Former CPT Employees”) and Aequitas hired each Former CPT Employee. Under the Restated Administrative Services Agreement, CP Technologies has the right to designate from time to time additional persons to be hired by Aequitas for the purpose of providing services to CP Technologies under the Restated Administrative Services Agreement (such persons, together with the Former CPT Employees, the “Dedicated CPT Employees”). Pursuant to the Restated Administrative Services Agreement, CP Technologies has the right to terminate the provision of any services to CP Technologies by any Dedicated CPT Employee upon notice to Aequitas, to manage, supervise and oversee each Dedicated CPT Employee and to determine the duties to be performed by each Dedicated CPT Employee. Additionally, Aequitas pays the Dedicated CPT Employees the salaries or wages and bonus or other incentive compensation determined by CP Technologies, subject to Aequitas’ approval. Aequitas performs the administrative functions with respect to the Dedicated CPT Employees that are customarily performed by an employer for its employees, and CP Technologies reimburses Aequitas for the costs that Aequitas incurs in providing the Dedicated CPT Employees to CP Technologies, including direct labor costs, reasonable costs to provide benefits to the Dedicated CPT Employees, and other reasonable costs and expenses Aequitas incurs in providing the Dedicated CPT Employees to CP Technologies. The Restated Administrative Services Agreement is terminable by either party on 180 days’ notice. If the Restated Administrative Services Agreement is terminated, we cannot be assured that we would be able to hire each Dedicated CPT Employee on a direct basis or secure a comparable arrangement with another party on agreeable terms. Either of such events would have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, our industry is very labor-intensive, and companies in our industry typically experience a high rate of employee turnover. We will not be able to service our clients’ receivables effectively, to achieve our desired growth or achieve profitability if we cannot identify and cause Aequitas to retain qualified personnel to provide services to us. Further, high turnover rates among the Dedicated CPT Employees could increase our recruiting and training costs and may limit the number of experienced personnel available to provide services to us. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business strongly depends upon the services and management experience of our senior management team. If any of our executive officers resigns or is otherwise unable to serve, our management expertise and our ability to effectively execute our business strategy could be diminished. We may not be able to successfully anticipate, invest in or adopt technological advances within our industry. The Company's business relies on computer and telecommunications technologies, and our ability to integrate new technologies into our business is essential to our competitive position and our success. We may not be successful in anticipating, managing, or adopting technological changes on a timely basis. Computer and telecommunications technologies are evolving rapidly and are characterized by short product life cycles. While we believe that our existing information systems are sufficient to meet our current and foreseeable demands and continued expansion, our future growth may require additional investment in these systems. We depend on having the capital resources necessary to invest in new technologies to service receivables. There can be no assurance that we will have adequate capital resources available. We may not be able to anticipate, manage or adopt technological advances within our industry, which could result in our services becoming obsolete and no longer in demand. A significant majority of our equity securities are beneficially owned by a group of related parties whose interests in our business may be different than yours. Aequitas Holdings and its affiliates collectively beneficially own approximately 96% of our shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding as of March 30, 2013. These shareholders also own all of the issued and outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock, which is convertible into Class A Common Stock. Additionally, each share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to 10 votes per share, which gives Aequitas Holdings control over approximately 98% of all votes eligible to be cast on most corporate matters. The concentration of voting power among our principal shareholders enables our principal shareholders to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Our principal shareholders may have strategic or other interests that conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Provisions of our charter documents and Oregon law may have anti-takeover effects that could hinder a change in our corporate control. Our Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions may also delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for their Class A Common Stock. These provisions include, among others: 9 ·The ability of our Board of Directors to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders; ·The 10 vote-per-share feature of our Class B Common Stock and the ability of our Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of our Class B Common Stock (of which 8,010,092 shares were issued and outstanding as of March 30, 2013); and ·Provisions that set forth advance notice procedures for shareholder nominations of directors and proposals for consideration at meetings of shareholders. In addition, we are subject to the Oregon Control Share Act and Oregon’s business combination law, each of which could limit parties who acquire a significant amount of voting shares from exercising control over us for specific periods of time. These laws could lengthen the period for a proxy contest or for a shareholder to vote his, her or its shares to elect the majority of our Board of Directors and change management. 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 