Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors We are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on the Company and its financial condition, including the following. Minimal assets The Company has no significant assets or financial resources. It is likely the Company will sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues until it consummates a business combination with a target company. There is no assurance that we can identify such a target company and consummate such a business combination. Adequate financing may not be available when needed Additional sources of funding will be required for us to continue operations. There is no assurance that the Company can raise working capital or if any capital will be available at all. Failure to obtain financing when needed could result in curtailing operations, acquisitions or mergers and investors could lose some or all of their investment. Speculative nature of the Company's proposed operations The success of the Company's proposed plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified target company. While management will prefer business combinations with entities having established operating histories, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in locating candidates meeting such criteria. In the event the Company completes a business combination, of which there can be no assurance, the success of the Company's operations will be dependent upon management of the target company and numerous other factors beyond our control. Scarcity of and competition for business opportunities and combinations The Company is and will continue to be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking mergers with and acquisitions of business entities. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies which may be merger or acquisition target candidates for the Company. Nearly all such entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than we do. The Company will therefore be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. Moreover, we will also compete with numerous other small public companies in seeking merger or acquisition candidates. No agreement for business combination or other transaction – No standards for business combination As of this filing, the Company has not reached any definitive understanding with any person or entity concerning a merger or acquisition. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in concluding a business combination. Management has not identified any particular industry or specific business within an industry for evaluation by the Company. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable to the Company. We have not established a specified level of earnings, assets, net worth or other criteria that we will require a target company to have achieved, or that would prevent us from considering a business combination with such business entity. Accordingly, the Company may enter into a business combination with a business entity having no significant operating history, losses, limited or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. 4 Continued management control, limited time availability While seeking a business combination, our officers anticipate devoting only a limited amount of time per month to our business. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel is critical to our future success. There is no guarantee that we will be able to hire and retain qualified officers. Conflicts of interest The Company's officers and directors participate in other business ventures which may compete directly with the Company. Reporting requirements may delay or preclude acquisitions Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") requires companies subject thereto to provide certain information about significant acquisitions including certified financial statements for the company acquired covering one or two years, depending on the relative size of the acquisition. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target companies to prepare such financial statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by the Company. Acquisition prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited financial statements may not be appropriate for acquisition so long as the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act are applicable. Lack of diversification Our activities will be limited to the operations engaged in by the business entity with which we merge or acquire. Our inability to diversify our activities into a number of areas may subject us to economic fluctuations within a particular business or industry and therefore increase the risks associated with our operations. Regulation under Investment Company Act Although the Company will be subject to regulation under the Exchange Act, management believes the Company will not be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940 because it will not be engaged in the business of investing or trading in securities. In the event the Company engages in business combinations which result in the Company holding passive investment interests in a number of entities, the Company could be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In such event, we would be required to register as an investment company and could be expected to incur significant registration and compliance costs. We have not obtained a formal determination from the Securities and Exchange Commission as to our status under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Consequently, any violation of such Act could subject the Company to material adverse consequences. Possible change in control and management A business combination involving the issuance of the Company's equity securities could result in shareholders of a target company obtaining a controlling interest in the Company. Any such business combination may require our shareholders to sell or transfer all or a portion of the Company's equity securities held by them. The resulting change in control will likely result in removal of the present officers and directors of the Company and a corresponding reduction in or elimination of their participation in the future affairs of the Company. 5 Reduction of percentage share ownership following business combination The Company's primary plan of operation is based upon a business combination with a business entity which, in all likelihood, will result in our issuing securities to shareholders of such business entity. The issuance of previously authorized and unissued equity securities of the Company would result in reduction in percentage of shares owned by our present shareholders and would most likely result in a change in control or management of the Company. Taxation Federal and state tax consequences will, in all likelihood, be major considerations in any business combination we may undertake. Currently, such transactions may be structured so as to result in tax-free treatment to both companies, pursuant to various federal and state tax provisions. We intend to structure any business combination so as to minimize the federal and state tax consequences to both the Company and the target company; however, there can be no assurance that such business combination will meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization or that the parties will obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of stock or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of both federal and state taxes which may have an adverse effect on both parties to the transaction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 