ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to invest in our company or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information in this report and our other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect us. If any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. Competition for Internet Access Services. Our principal Communications services, our Internet access services, compete with many emerging and seasoned competitors, including the following: · established online service and content providers such as AOL, AOL’s Netscape subsidiary and MSN; · independent national Internet service providers (“ISPs”) such as EarthLink and its PeoplePC subsidiary; · companies combining their resources to offer Internet access in conjunction with other services such as Yahoo! and AT&T Internet Services, and Yahoo! and Verizon; · national communications companies and local exchange carriers such as AT&T Inc., Qwest Communications International, Inc. and Verizon; · cable companies such as Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable, Inc., Cox Communications, Inc., and Charter Communications, Inc.; · local telephone companies; · regional and local commercial ISPs; and · municipalities. Our primary service offering is dial-up Internet access. Our historical success in competing for Internet access subscribers has been based primarily on offering dial-up access services at prices lower than the prices of our principal competitors. However, in the last few years the market has changed dramatically due to a variety of factors including increased availability of broadband services, decreases in broadband pricing and widespread consumer adoption of applications that require a broadband connection. Dial-up services do not compete favorably with broadband services with respect to connection speed, and dial-up services no longer have a significant, if any, price advantage over certain broadband services. As a result, dial-up services have an increasingly difficult time competing with broadband services and the number of dial-up accounts in the United States has been declining at an increasing rate. In addition to competition from broadband providers, competition among dial-up providers has increased and neither our pricing nor our features provide us with a significant competitive advantage, if any, over certain of our dial-up competitors. We expect that competition, particularly with respect to price, both for broadband as well as dial-up services, will continue to intensify, and that our dial-up subscriber base will continue to decrease, potentially at an increasing rate. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we began offering broadband services by purchasing and reselling broadband services acquired through third party providers. The providers from whom we purchase such services are either our direct competitors or acquire their services from our competitors. We currently have agreements with only a limited number of providers and their services cover only a portion of the U.S. There is no assurance that we will be successful in entering into the agreements necessary to offer 12 broadband services on a significant scale, that we will be able to maintain such agreements or that the pricing under such agreements will enable us to profitably resell the services. Most of the largest providers of broadband services, such as cable and telecommunications companies, control their own networks and offer a wider variety of services than we offer, including phone, data and video services and content. Their ability to bundle services and to offer broadband services at prices below the price that we can profitably offer comparable services puts us at a competitive disadvantage. Decreases in retail broadband pricing as a result of competition would adversely impact our ability to offer such services profitably or at a competitive price. We only have a limited number of subscribers to our broadband services and there can be no assurance that our broadband services will be commercially successful. In order to compete effectively we may have to make significant revisions to our services, pricing and marketing strategies, and business model. For example, we may have to lower our introductory rates, offer additional free periods of service, offer additional features at little or no additional cost to the consumer, and/or reduce the standard pricing of our services. Measures such as these could decrease our revenues and our average revenue per pay access account. We may also have to allocate more marketing resources toward our access services than we anticipate. All of the foregoing could adversely affect the profitability of our access services which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Competition for Social-Networking Services. Competition for subscribers in the social-networking market is intense and rapidly evolving. Our social-networking services compete directly against a small number of companies, including Reunion.com and Monster.com’s Military.com service, offering similar online social-networking services based on work, school and military communities. Our social-networking services also compete directly with many schools, employers, Web sites, and associations that maintain their own Internet-based alumni information services. In addition to this direct competition, we compete for subscribers with companies offering a wide variety of social-networking and search services, including Web portals such as Yahoo!, MSN and AOL, and other community-based Web sites; personal-networking communities such as MySpace, Facebook and Friendster; and search services that help users locate individuals such as Google. Some of these services also have a wider variety of services and more sophisticated features than ours. Our social-networking services are used primarily to locate and contact acquaintances from school, work or military affiliations, and our subscribers, in general, do not spend a significant amount of time on the site for other purposes. Many social-networking services are free or only require payment if certain additional functionality is desired by the user. The continued prevalence of free services could adversely impact our ability to market both our free and pay social-networking services, maintain our current price levels, or maintain or grow our pay account base at current price levels, or at all. Many competitors in this market have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, we have relied extensively on Internet advertising through portals and other Internet service providers, including AOL, MSN and Yahoo!, to grow our free and pay accounts. A number of these companies are competitors of United Online with respect to Internet access and other services, and they may not be willing to retain the same advertising relationship going forward. To the extent we are not able to maintain advertising relationships with these companies, our ability to obtain new social-networking pay and free accounts would be adversely impacted. Competition for Online Loyalty Marketing Services. Our loyalty marketing buisness faces competition for members from other loyalty programs that offer competitive online products and services. Currently, several companies offer competitive online products and services, including Ebates, Upromise and Points.com. We also face competition from larger offline loyalty point programs, such as those operated by credit card companies, airlines and hotels, to the extent they focus on developing a stronger online presence or promote online shopping opportunities. The success of our loyalty marketing business largely depends on our ability to maintain and expand an active membership base. Our revenues are primarily 13 driven by fees paid by advertisers and direct marketers based on specific actions taken by our members. If we are unable to induce existing and new members to actively participate in our programs, our business may be harmed. If the perceived value of our points decreases, we may be required to offer more points to generate the same revenue, which could adversely affect our results of operations relating to these services. A significant portion of the revenues from our loyalty marketing business is generated from the activity of a small percentage of our members, and we cannot assure you that the number of active members will increase. Data security and privacy concerns may cause consumers not to sign up for our program or cause our members to stop using the service or resist providing the personal data necessary to support our program’s profiling capability. In addition, we acquire a significant number of our new members through a few acquisition channels, and the loss of any of these channels or a decrease in the number of new members acquired through these channels could have an adverse affect our business. Although our membership has grown in prior periods, there are no assurances that our membership growth will continue or increase in the future. We have limited experience in this market and cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively. Competition for Advertising Customers. We are dependent upon advertising revenues for a significant portion of our revenues and profits. We compete for advertising revenues with major ISPs, content providers, large Web publishers, Web search engine and portal companies, Internet advertising providers, content aggregation companies, social-networking Web sites, direct marketing businesses, and various other companies that facilitate Internet advertising. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger user bases and significantly greater financial, technical and sales and marketing resources than we do. This may allow them to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. These competitors may also engage in more extensive research and development, offer more sophisticated or compelling products and services, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We also compete with television, radio, cable and print media for a share of advertisers’ total advertising budgets. In certain instances, we generate advertising revenues from companies who are also our competitors. To the extent competitors who are also sources of significant advertising revenue cease to do business with us, our revenues and profits could suffer. Revenues and profitability of our Communications segment are expected to decrease. Substantially all of our Communications revenues and profits come from our access services. As a result of expected continued decreases in our pay access accounts and, potentially, the average monthly revenue per pay account, we expect that our Communications billable services revenues and the profitability of this segment will decline over time. The rate of decline in billable services revenues has accelerated in some periods and may continue to accelerate. Our Communications advertising revenues may decline as well due to decreases in our access accounts. Continued declines, particularly if such declines accelerate, in Communications revenues may materially and adversely impact the profitability of this segment and the Company as a whole. Revenues and profitability of our Content & Media segment may not increase. A key element of our strategy involves the diversification from the declining access business to businesses with growth opportunities. We view the Content & Media segment as a growth opportunity. Both billable services revenues and advertising revenues are key components in the profitability of this segment. We derive substantially all of this segment’s billable services revenues from pay accounts relating to our social-networking services. We derive significant advertising revenues from both our social-networking as well as our loyalty marketing services. We have experienced periods where our advertising revenues and billable services revenues have declined. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in increasing Content & Media advertising revenues or billable services revenues in the future. If we are 14 not successful in growing our revenues within this segment, it is likely to adversely affect our diversification strategy and our future prospects. Failure to increase revenues in this segment could also adversely impact the profitability of this segment and the Company as a whole. We may be unable to maintain or grow our advertising revenues. Reduced advertising revenues may reduce our profits. Advertising revenues are an increasingly important component of our revenues and profitability. Our revenues from advertising have in the past fluctuated, and may in the future fluctuate, due to a variety of factors including, without limitation, the effect of key advertising relationships, changes in our business models, changes in the online advertising market, changes in our advertising inventory, and changes in usage. In particular, we derive significant revenues from search and certain other advertising initiatives or partners, and any termination, change or decrease in revenues from these sources could have a material impact on our advertising revenues. In response to competition, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop or enhance our advertising services, although there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful. From time to time, we have undertaken initiatives that we believed would increase our advertising revenues but have resulted in decreased advertising revenues. There can be no assurance our advertising initiatives will be effective, and our advertising revenues may decline in future periods. Our business is subject to fluctuations. Our results of operations and changes in the number and mix of pay accounts from period to period have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control and difficult to predict. A number of factors that may impact us are discussed in greater detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and these factors may affect us from period to period and may affect our long-term performance. As a result, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons as an indication of future or long-term performance. In addition, these factors create difficulties with respect to our ability to forecast our financial performance accurately. We believe that these difficulties in forecasting present even greater challenges for financial analysts who publish their own estimates of our future financial results and account metrics. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the expectations or financial projections made by our management or by the financial analysts. In the event we do not achieve such expectations or projections, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our marketing activities may not be successful. We spend significant funds to market our services. From time to time, we may allocate our advertising expenditures to different services for various reasons, and these allocations may adversely impact some of our other services. Even if we choose to allocate significant marketing resources to a particular service, there is no assurance that our marketing activities will be successful. At times we have increased our profitability, in part, by decreasing our marketing expenditures. Future decreases in our marketing expenditures could adversely impact our business. Future increases in our marketing expenditures could adversely impact our profitability and there can be no assurance that our marketing activities will be successful in growing our businesses. We rely on a variety of distribution channels to obtain new accounts. If these channels prove to be ineffective, or if the cost to acquire new accounts increases, our financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. If we are unable to retain users, our business and financial results will suffer. Historically, we have lost an average of four to five percent of our pay accounts each month, which we refer to as churn, with churn in recent periods approximating or exceeding five percent. Our churn 15 percentage is calculated based on the average number of pay accounts for a period. The average number of pay accounts is a simple average calculated based on the number of pay accounts at the beginning and end of a period. We make certain normalizing adjustments to the calculation of our churn percentage for periods in which we add a significant number of pay accounts due to acquisitions. We do not include in our churn calculation those accounts cancelled during the first thirty days of service unless the accounts have upgraded from free accounts, although a number of such accounts will be included in our account totals at any given measurement date. Subscribers who cancel one pay service but subscribe to another pay service are not considered to have cancelled a pay account and, as such, our overall churn rate is not necessarily indicative of the percentage of subscribers canceling any particular service. We have experienced, and will likely continue to experience, a higher percentage of subscribers canceling our accelerated access and social-networking services than is indicated by our churn rate, and the percentage of subscribers canceling our social-networking services has fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter due to seasonality and the timing of termination of multi-month programs. Our churn may be higher in future periods and will fluctuate from period to period and from service to service. If we continue to experience a high percentage of pay accounts canceling our services, it will make it more difficult to grow, maintain or minimize decreases in the number of pay accounts for those services. If we experience an increased percentage of cancellations, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Each month, a significant number of free accounts become inactive and we may experience continued declines in the number of active free accounts. In addition, a user may have more than one account on more than one of our services, and we are not able to determine in most cases the number of accounts held by an individual. As such, the actual number of unique individuals using our services may be much lower than our total number of accounts. We may be unsuccessful at acquiring additional businesses, product lines or technologies. Even if we complete an acquisition, it may not improve our results of operations and may adversely impact our business and financial condition. One of our strategic objectives is to acquire businesses, product lines or technologies that will provide us with an opportunity to leverage our assets and core competencies, or that otherwise will be complementary to our existing businesses. We may not succeed in growing or maintaining our revenues unless we are able to successfully complete acquisitions. The merger and acquisition market for companies offering Internet services is extremely competitive, particularly for companies who have demonstrated a profitable business model with long-term growth potential. Companies with these characteristics trade publicly or are privately valued at multiples of earnings, revenues, operating income and other metrics significantly higher than the multiples at which we are currently valued. Acquisitions may require us to obtain additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. These and other factors may make it difficult for us to acquire additional businesses, product lines or technologies at affordable prices, or at all, and there is no assurance that we will be successful in completing additional acquisitions. We routinely engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions and any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. However, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of an acquisition will materialize or that any integration attempts will be successful. Acquiring a business, product line or technology involves many risks, including: · disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of resources and management time; · unforeseen obligations or liabilities; · difficulty assimilating the acquired customer bases, technologies and operations; · difficulty assimilating and retaining employees from the acquired business; 16 · risks of entering markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; · lack of controls, policies and procedures appropriate for a public company, and the time and cost related to the remediation of such controls, policies and procedures; · potential impairment of relationships with employees, users or vendors as a result of changes in management; and · potential dilutive issuances of equity, large write-offs either at the time of the acquisition or in the future, the incurrence of restructuring charges, the incurrence of debt, the amortization of identifiable intangible assets, and the impairment of amounts capitalized as intangible assets. We may seek to expand our international business through acquisitions. Acquisitions of foreign businesses involve risks in addition to those mentioned above, including risks associated with potentially unfamiliar economic, political and regulatory environments and integration difficulties due to language, cultural and geographic differences. We cannot assure you that any further acquisitions we make will be successful. We may not successfully develop and market new services in a timely or cost-effective manner; consumers or advertisers may not accept our new products and services. We may not be able to compete effectively if we are not able to adapt to changes in technology and industry standards or develop or acquire and successfully commercialize new and enhanced services. Services, such as our broadband services, may be dependent on our obtaining needed technology or services from third parties, which we may not be able to obtain in a timely manner upon terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our ability to compete successfully will also depend upon the continued compatibility of our services with products offered by various vendors, which we may not be able to achieve. We have expended, and may in the future expend, significant resources enhancing our existing services and developing, acquiring and implementing new services, such as our broadband services. Product development involves a number of uncertainties, including unanticipated delays and expenses. New or enhanced services may have technological problems or may not be accepted by consumers or advertisers. For example, our VoIP services did not meet with commercial success. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing, acquiring or implementing new or enhanced services, or that new or enhanced services will be commercially successful. Our access business is dependent on our ability to effectively manage our telecommunications and network capacities. Our access business substantially depends on the capacity, affordability, reliability and security of our telecommunications networks. We will have to accurately anticipate our future telecommunications capacity needs within lead-time requirements. Only a small number of telecommunications providers offer the network and data services we currently require, and we purchase most of our telecommunications services from a few providers. Some of our telecommunications services are provided pursuant to short-term agreements that the providers can terminate or elect not to renew. Vendors may experience significant financial difficulties and be unable to perform satisfactorily or to continue to offer their services. The loss of vendors has resulted, and may result, in increased costs, decreased service quality and the loss of users. If we are unable to maintain, renew or obtain new agreements with the third party providers of our telecommunications services, or to secure new or alternative arrangements with other providers, to provide the scope, quantity, quality, type and pricing of services to meet our current and future needs, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 17 Our business is highly dependent on our billing and customer support systems, and on third parties for technical support and customer service, and our business may suffer if these systems do not function and we cannot perform and provide these services. Customer billing and service are highly complex processes, and our systems must efficiently interface with other third parties’ systems such as the systems of credit card processing companies and other companies to whom we outsource these functions. Our ability to accurately and efficiently bill and service our users is dependent on the successful operation of these systems. We have experienced customer billing and service problems from time to time and may experience additional problems in the future. We currently outsource a majority of the live technical and billing support functions. As a result, we maintain only a small number of internal customer service personnel. We are not equipped to provide the necessary range of customer service functions in the event that our vendors become unable or unwilling to offer these services to us. Problems with our third party software applications, our internally developed software applications, our credit card processors, our outsourced customer service vendors, other customer billing and support vendors, and any other failures or errors in our customer billing and service systems, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If our software or hardware contains errors or fails, if we fail to operate our services effectively or if we encounter difficulties integrating our systems and technologies, our business could be seriously harmed. Our services, and the hardware and software systems underlying our services, are complex. Our systems may contain undetected errors or failures and are susceptible to human error. We have in the past encountered, and may in the future encounter, software and hardware errors, system design errors, errors in the operation of our systems, and technical and customer support issues associated with our services and software releases. This has resulted in, and may in the future result in, a number of adverse consequences, which have included or may include: · users being disconnected from our services or being unable to access our services; · loss of data or revenue; · injury to reputation; and · diversion of development resources. A number of our material technologies and systems are based on different platforms. To the extent we attempt to integrate these technologies and systems, we may experience a number of difficulties, errors, failures and unanticipated costs. In addition, our business relies on third-party software for various applications including, without limitation, our internal operations, our billing and customer support, our accelerated services, and our advertising products and services. Any significant failure of this software could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our services also rely on their compatibility with other third-party systems, particularly operating systems. Incompatibility with future changes to third-party software upon which our systems rely could materially affect our ability to deliver our services. We cannot assure you that we will not experience significant technical problems with our services in the future. 18 A security breach or inappropriate use of our network or services could expose us to claims or a loss of revenue. The success of our business depends on the security of our networks and, in part, on the security of the network infrastructures of our third-party vendors. Unauthorized or inappropriate access to, or use of, our networks, computer systems and services could potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information, including credit card information, of our users and of third parties. Third parties have in the past used our networks, services and brand names to perpetrate crimes, such as identity theft or credit card theft, and may do so in the future. Users or third parties may assert claims of liability against us as a result of any failure by us to prevent security breaches, unauthorized disclosure of user information or other such activities. Although we use security measures that we believe to be effective by industry standards, we cannot assure you that the measures we take will be successfully implemented or will be effective in preventing these types of activities. We also cannot assure you that the security measures of our third-party network providers, providers of customer and billing support services or other vendors will be adequate. In addition to potential legal liability, these activities may adversely impact our reputation or our revenues and may interfere with our ability to provide our services, all of which could adversely impact our business. Harmful software programs such as viruses could disrupt our business. Our business is dependent on the continued acceptance of the Internet as an effective medium. Damaging software programs, such as computer viruses, worms and Trojan horses, have from time to time been disseminated through the Internet and have caused significant disruption to Internet users. Certain of these programs have disabled the ability of computers to access the Internet, requiring users to obtain technical support in order to gain access to the Internet. Other programs have had the potential to damage or delete computer programs. The development and widespread dissemination of harmful programs has the potential to seriously disrupt Internet usage. If Internet usage is significantly disrupted for an extended period of time, or if the prevalence of these programs results in decreased residential Internet usage, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, actions taken by us or our telecommunications providers to attempt to minimize the spread of harmful programs could adversely impact our users’ ability to utilize our services. Our failure to protect our proprietary rights could harm our business. Our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names and trade secrets are important to the success of our business. We principally rely upon patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and contract laws to protect our proprietary technology. The protection of our proprietary rights may require the expenditure of significant financial and internal resources. We cannot assure you that we have taken adequate steps to prevent misappropriation of our rights. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could adversely affect our brands. Legal actions, particularly those associated with proprietary rights, could subject us to substantial liability and expense and require us to change our business practices. We are currently, and have been in the past, party to various legal actions. These actions include, without limitation, claims by private parties in connection with consumer protection and other laws, claims that we infringe third party patents, claims in connection with employment practices, securities laws claims, breach of contract claims and other business-related claims. The nature of our business could subject us to additional claims for similar matters, as well as a wide variety of other claims including, without limitation, claims for defamation, negligence, trademark infringement, copyright infringement, and privacy matters. Various governmental agencies may also assert claims or institute investigations relating to our business practices, such as our marketing, billing, customer retention, cancellation, refund or disclosure practices. 19 We cannot assure you that our services and business practices, or changes to our services and business practices, will not subject us to claims and liability by private parties or governmental agencies. Defending against lawsuits and investigations involves significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources from other matters. We may not prevail in existing claims or claims that may be made in the future. The failure to successfully defend against certain types of claims, including claims based on infringement of proprietary rights, could require us to change our business practices or obtain licenses from third parties, which licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Lawsuits and investigations also involve the risk of significant settlements or judgments against us. Both the cost of defending claims, as well as the effect of settlements and judgments, could cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly from period to period and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may not realize the benefits associated with our intangible assets and may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we are required to impair our goodwill or identifiable intangible assets. We are required, under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, to review our intangible assets for impairment when events occur or circumstances change that would more indicate the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value amount. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Certain of our services are relatively new and have not generated significant revenues. We have capitalized certain proprietary rights related to some of these services as well as certain costs incurred by us in connection with the development of these services. We have also capitalized goodwill and intangible assets in connection with some of our acquisitions. If these services are not commercially successful, we would likely be required to record an impairment charge for these assets which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2006, we had to write-down (impair) certain long-lived assets associated with our VoIP services and certain goodwill and intangible assets associated with the acquisition of our photo-sharing service. We have experienced impairment losses in the past and we cannot assure you that we will not experience impairment losses in the future. Any such loss could adversely and materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to operate our business could be seriously harmed if we lose members of our senior management team or other key employees. Our business is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, particularly Mark R. Goldston, our chairman and chief executive officer, and other key personnel. Any of our officers or employees can terminate his or her employment relationship at any time. The loss of these key employees or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could seriously harm our business and prospects. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees. Government laws and regulation changes and new laws and regulations. We are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as user privacy and data protection, defamation, pricing, advertising, taxation, sweepstakes, promotions, billing, content regulation, bulk email or “spam,” anti-spyware initiatives, security breaches and consumer protection. Compliance with the various laws and regulations, which in many instances are unclear or unsettled, is complex. Any changes in such laws and regulations, the enactment of any additional laws or regulations, or increased enforcement activity of such laws and regulations, could significantly impact our costs or the manner in which we conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. 20 Currently, ISPs are considered “information service” providers and regulations that apply to telephone companies and other telecommunications common carriers do not apply to our Internet access services. However, our Internet access services could become subject to Federal Communications Commission and state regulation as Internet access services and telecommunications services converge. If the regulatory status of ISPs changes, our business may be adversely affected. The Internet Tax Freedom Act, which placed a moratorium on new state and local taxes on Internet commerce, is in effect through November 2007. However, future laws imposing taxes or other regulations on the provision of goods and services over the Internet could make it substantially more expensive to operate our business. Our social-networking services and loyalty marketing business rely heavily on email campaigns, and any restrictions on the sending of emails could materially and adversely affect our business. Our social-networking services and loyalty marketing business deliver a significant number of emails to our members. In addition to any government laws and regulations, voluntary actions by third parties to block, impose restrictions on or charge for the delivery of emails through their email systems could materially and adversely impact our business. In addition, from time to time, ISPs block bulk email transmissions or otherwise experience technical difficulties which result in the inability to transmit emails to our members. Restrictions on the sending of emails could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business could be shut down or severely impacted by a catastrophic event. Our computer equipment and the telecommunications infrastructure of our third-party network providers are vulnerable to damage from fire, earthquakes, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorism and similar events. We have experienced situations where power loss and telecommunications failures have adversely impacted our services, although to date such failures have not been material to our operations. A significant portion of our computer equipment, including critical equipment dedicated to our Internet access services, is located in California, which is particularly subject to earthquakes. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, worms, physical and electronic break-ins, sabotage and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering of our computer systems. Any prolonged disruption of our services due to these and other events could result in user turnover and decreased revenues and could severely impact or shut down our business. We may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of any events which cause interruptions in our services. Our business could be severely impacted due to political instability or other factors in India. We have a significant number of employees located in our India office. Our product development, customer support and quality assurance operations would be severely disrupted if telecommunications issues, political instability, labor strife or other factors adversely impacted these operations or our ability to communicate with these operations. Any disruption that continued for an extended period of time would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our customers and develop our products and services. If we were to cease our operations in India and transfer these operations to another geographic area, such change could result in increased overhead costs which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. We cannot predict our future capital needs and we may not be able to secure additional financing. We may need to raise additional funds in the future to fund our operations, for acquisitions of businesses or technologies or for other purposes. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or not available when required in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, our business and its future prospects may suffer. 21 We may stop paying quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Commencing with the second quarter of 2005, we have declared and paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share of common stock. The payment of future dividends is discretionary and will be subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our board of directors. Our future cash flows may significantly decline due to declines in our dial-up Internet access business, the payment of income taxes and other factors, and our cash balances will decline if we use our cash to acquire businesses or technologies, repurchase stock or for other purposes. A change in our business needs, including working capital and funding for acquisitions, or a change in tax laws relating to dividends, could cause our Board of Directors to decide to cease the payment of, or reduce, the dividend in the future. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends, and if we do not, our stock price could be negatively impacted. We have anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders because of a premium price offered by a potential acquirer. In addition, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, which is an anti-takeover measure that will cause substantial dilution to a person who attempts to acquire our company on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Our stock price has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our stock began trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market in September 2001 and it is likely to continue to be volatile with extreme volume fluctuations. In addition, the Nasdaq Stock Market, where most publicly-held Internet companies are traded, has experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations. The broad market and industry factors that influence or affect such fluctuations may harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and for this or other reasons we could suffer significant declines in the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 