ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to invest in our company or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information in this report and our other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect us. If any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. See the discussion of the competition we face in Item 1. Our revenues may continue to decrease and our profitability may decrease. Our revenues in the fourth quarter of 2005 decreased from our revenues in the third quarter of 2005, and we expect our revenues to continue to decline, at least in the near term. Our ability to stabilize or minimize decreases in our revenues is primarily dependent upon our ability to increase our number of pay subscriptions and accounts, our average monthly revenue per pay account (“ARPU”) and our advertising revenues. We have been experiencing an increasing rate of decline in our pay access accounts and currently anticipate that our pay access accounts will continue to decline in the future and that the rate of decline may accelerate. The ARPU for our access services, including our accelerated access services, has also declined and we anticipate it will continue to decline. Even if we are successful in growing our number of pay accounts as a result of increases in our non-access accounts, due to the lower ARPU for our non-access services we believe that our revenues will continue to decline, at least in the near term. We are budgeting our expenditures for 2006 based upon assumptions with respect to growth in our non-access pay accounts, growth in advertising revenues and decreases in pay access subscribers and ARPU. If we are unable to grow our non-access pay accounts as anticipated, if our ARPU declines more than anticipated, if we do not generate anticipated advertising revenues or if our pay access base declines faster than anticipated, our profitability could be materially and adversely impacted. We anticipate a significant decrease in our marketing expenditures during 2006 from what we spent in 2005. At the same time, we currently have more services to market than we did in throughout 2005 and we have increasing competition with respect to all of our service offerings. The amount we have budgeted for marketing may be insufficient to effectively market all of our services, and subscriptions to our access services may decline much faster than anticipated and subscriptions to our non-access services may not grow as anticipated, all of which would negatively impact our revenues and profitability in the near term and our prospects in the long term. If we choose to increase our marketing expenditures beyond what we currently anticipate, our profitability will likely be adversely affected, at least in the near term. Our ability to grow or maintain our number of pay accounts and subscriptions may also be dependent on our success in commercializing new services that we either acquire or develop. To the extent we are unable to successfully market our existing services to new users, successfully cross-market additional subscriptions to existing users or successfully acquire or develop and commercialize new services, our pay accounts and subscriptions could continue to decline. Our business is subject to fluctuations. Our results of operations and changes in the number and mix of pay accounts from period to period have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control and difficult to predict. A number of factors that may impact us are discussed in greater detail in this Form 10-K, and these factors may affect us from period to period and 18 may affect our long-term performance. As a result, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons as an indication of future or long-term performance. In addition, these factors create difficulties with respect to our ability to forecast our financial performance and account metrics accurately. We believe that these difficulties in forecasting present even greater challenges for financial analysts who publish their own estimates of our future financial results and account metrics. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the expectations or financial projections made by our management or by the financial analysts. In the event we do not achieve such expectations or projections, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. If we cannot identify and complete acquisitions, we may not be able to grow and achieve our strategic objectives. One of our strategic objectives is to acquire businesses, product lines or technologies which will provide us with an opportunity to leverage our assets and core competencies, or which otherwise will be complementary to our existing businesses. It is likely that we will not succeed in growing our revenues unless we are able to successfully complete acquisitions. The merger and acquisition market for companies offering Internet services is extremely competitive, particularly for companies who have demonstrated a profitable business model with long-term growth potential. Recently, the public equity markets have been very receptive to companies with these characteristics. As a result, in many cases, companies with these characteristics trade publicly or are privately valued at multiples of earnings, revenues, operating income and other metrics significantly higher than the multiples at which we are currently valued. Acquisitions may require us to obtain additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. These and other factors may make it difficult for us to acquire additional businesses, product lines or technologies at affordable prices, or at all, and there is no assurance that we will be successful in completing additional acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manage, integrate or grow our Web-hosting, photo-sharing and Classmates businesses. In April 2004, we acquired the assets of About, Inc.’s Web-hosting business, in November 2004, we acquired Classmates and in March 2005, we acquired the assets of Homestead Technologies, Inc.’s online digital photo-sharing business. We do not have prior experience in any of these lines of business and may not be able to compete successfully in them. To the extent we attempt to integrate various aspects of these businesses, we may not be successful. There may be unanticipated risks, liabilities and costs associated with these businesses, and we cannot assure you that these businesses will have a positive impact on our results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining or growing their pay or free accounts. Even if we are successful at acquiring additional businesses, product lines or technologies, acquisitions may not improve our results of operations and may adversely impact our business and financial condition. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide variety of potential strategic transactions that we believe may complement our current or future business activities. We routinely engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions and any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. However, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of an acquisition will materialize. Acquiring a business, product line or technology involves many risks, including: · disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of resources and management time; · unforeseen obligations or liabilities; 19 · difficulty assimilating the acquired customer bases, technologies and operations; · difficulty assimilating and retaining employees from the acquired business; · risks of entering markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; · lack of controls, policies and procedures appropriate for a public company, and the time and cost related to the remediation of such controls, policies and procedures; · potential impairment of relationships with employees, users, or vendors as a result of changes in management; and · potential dilutive issuances of equity, large write-offs either at the time of the acquisition or in the future, the incurrence of restructuring charges, the incurrence of debt, the amortization of identifiable intangible assets, and the impairment of amounts capitalized as intangible assets if we should fail to successfully further develop acquired technology. Classmates has a subsidiary operating in Germany and we may seek to expand our international business through acquisitions. Acquisitions of foreign businesses involve risks in addition to those mentioned above, including risks associated with potentially unfamiliar economic, political and regulatory environments and integration difficulties due to language, cultural and geographic differences. We cannot assure you that any further acquisitions we make will be successful. Our marketing activities may not be successful. Our marketing activities may not be effective in maintaining or increasing the size of our pay and active account bases. We will be required to incur significant marketing expenses to maintain or develop our brands and we may not be successful in increasing active and pay accounts and subscriptions. We have increased the number of brands under which our services are marketed and increased the number of services we offer. We may not have adequate resources to maintain all of our brands or promote all of our services. Our VoIP services, in particular, may require significant marketing resources and we do not currently intend to allocate significant resources to market these services. Even if we choose to allocate significant marketing resources to these services, there is no assurance that our marketing activities will be successful. We intend to decrease our marketing budget from 2005 levels, which may adversely impact our ability to maintain or grow our revenues. We cannot assure you that our marketing activities will be successful. We obtain a significant number of new pay access accounts through our offline distribution channels, primarily Best Buy. If the number of new pay accounts acquired through Best Buy were to decrease, such decrease could negatively impact the number of pay access accounts and our revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted. If we are unable to retain users, our business and financial results will suffer. Historically, we have lost an average of four to five percent of our pay accounts each month, which we refer to as churn. Our churn percentage is calculated based on the average number of pay accounts for a period. The average number of pay accounts is a simple average calculated based on the number of pay accounts at the beginning and end of a period. We make certain normalizing adjustments to the calculation of our churn percentage for periods in which we add a significant number of pay accounts due to acquisitions. We do not include in our churn calculation those accounts cancelled during the first thirty days of service unless the accounts have upgraded from free accounts, although a number of such accounts will be included in our account totals at any given measurement date. Subscribers who cancel one pay service but subscribe to another pay service are not considered to have cancelled a pay account and, as such, our overall churn rate is not necessarily indicative of the percentage of subscribers canceling any 20 particular service. We have experienced, and will likely continue to experience, a higher percentage of subscribers canceling our accelerated access and Classmates services than is indicated by our churn rate, and the percentage of subscribers canceling Classmates service has fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter due to seasonality and the timing of termination of multi-month programs. During the December 2005 quarter, we experienced increased churn in our access base as a whole, and this trend may continue. As a result, our overall churn, which was approximately 5% in the December 2005 quarter, may be higher in future periods and will fluctuate from period to period. If we continue to experience a high percentage of pay accounts canceling our Classmates and accelerator services, it will make it more difficult to grow or retain the number of pay accounts to those services and the size of our overall pay accounts base. If we experience an increased percentage of cancellations, or if we are unable to attract new pay accounts in numbers sufficient to increase our overall pay accounts, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. In addition, the number of active free accounts has a significant impact on our ability to attract advertisers, on the number of advertising impressions we have available to sell, and on how many pay accounts and subscriptions we can potentially acquire through marketing our pay services to our active free accounts. Each month, a significant number of free accounts become inactive and we may experience continued declines in the number of active free accounts, particularly if we continue to focus all of our marketing efforts on our pay services or impose limitations on our free services. In addition, a user may have more than one account on more than one of our services, and we are not able to determine in most cases the number of accounts held by an individual. As such, the actual number of unique individuals using our services may be much lower than our total number of accounts. We may not successfully develop and market new services in a timely or cost-effective manner; consumers or advertisers may not accept our new products. We may not be able to compete effectively if we are not able to adapt to changes in technology and industry standards or develop or acquire and successfully commercialize new and enhanced services. New services may be dependent on our obtaining needed technology or services from third parties, which we may not be able to obtain in a timely manner, upon terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our ability to compete successfully will also depend upon the continued compatibility of our services with products offered by various vendors, which we may not be able to achieve. We have expended, and may in the future expend, significant resources enhancing our existing services, such as our enhanced accelerator service, and developing, acquiring and implementing new services, such as our recently launched VoIP services. Product development involves a number of uncertainties, including unanticipated delays and expenses. New or enhanced services, such as our VoIP services and our enhanced accelerator service, may have technological problems or may not be accepted by our consumers or advertisers. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing, acquiring or implementing new or enhanced services, or that new or enhanced services will be commercially successful. Our VoIP services may not be commercially successful. Only a limited number of users have signed up for our new VoIP services, and we have experienced losses in connection with these services due to fraud and the costs of developing and operating them. It is likely we will continue to expend significant resources developing, enhancing, operating and marketing these services. We expect these services to continue to adversely impact our profitability, at least in the near term. If our VoIP services are not commercially successful we will continue to incur operating losses in connection with these services, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Seasonal trends in Internet usage and advertising sales may cause fluctuations in our results of operations. Seasonal trends could affect revenues, operating expenses and the rate at which users sign up for our services. Decreased usage during seasonal periods could decrease advertising inventory and search activity and adversely impact advertising revenue. Increased usage due to seasonality may result in increased telecommunications costs for such period. We have experienced lower usage of our access services in the summer months and this trend may continue. We also have experienced a lower rate of people signing up for our access services during the spring and summer months when compared to the fall and winter months, and this trend may continue. Seasonality may result in significant fluctuations in our results of operations and the number of users signing up for, or accessing, our services. We may be unable to maintain or grow our advertising revenues, particularly if we lose key advertising relationships. Reduced advertising revenues may reduce our profits. Advertising and commerce revenues are an important component of our revenues and profitability. Our revenues from advertising have in the past fluctuated, and may in the future fluctuate, due to a variety of factors including, without limitation, changes in the online advertising market, decreases in capital available to Internet and other companies, changes in our advertising inventory, changes in usage and the effect of key advertising relationships. Although we experienced an increase in advertising revenues in the December 2005 quarter from the immediately preceding quarter, we have experienced declines in advertising revenues in certain prior periods. The majority of our advertising revenues are derived from our access services and decreases in our access account base would likely result in decreased inventory and, potentially, decreased advertising revenues. As discussed above, competition for advertising dollars is intense and our advertising revenues may decline in future periods. A small number of customers have accounted for, and may in the future account for, a significant portion of our advertising and commerce revenues. In the past, we have experienced a number of situations where significant advertising arrangements were terminated early, were not renewed, were renewed at significantly lower rates or were renegotiated during the term of the arrangement. We derived approximately 26% of our advertising and commerce revenues during the year ended December 31, 2005 from Internet search fees provided through our agreement with Yahoo! Search. Our agreement with Yahoo! Search expires in March 2007. The competition among search services is increasing. If there were a significant decrease in search fees from our agreement with Yahoo! Search due to users using competitive services or other factors, such decrease would adversely impact our results of operations. Our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable either to maintain or renew our significant agreements or to replace such agreements with similar agreements with new customers. If our access accounts usage increases or our telecommunications costs increase, our business may suffer. Other than sales and marketing, our telecommunications costs are our largest expense. If the average monthly usage of our access users increases, or if our average hourly telecommunications cost increases, our profitability may be adversely impacted. Our access business is dependent on a small number of telecommunications carriers. Our inability to maintain agreements at attractive rates with these carriers may negatively impact our business. Our access business substantially depends on the capacity, affordability, reliability and security of our telecommunications networks. Only a small number of telecommunications providers offer the network and data services we require, and most of our telecommunications services is currently purchased from Level 3 Communications, MCI, Pac-West and Qwest. Furthermore, in the past, several vendors have 22 ceased operations or ceased offering the services we require, causing us to switch vendors. Vendors may experience significant financial difficulties and be unable to perform satisfactorily or to continue to offer their services. MCI, Level 3 Communications, Pac-West and Qwest have significant amounts of debt obligations. The loss of vendors has resulted, and may in the future result, in increased costs, decreased service quality and the loss of users. In particular, the failure of Level 3 Communications, MCI, Pac-West or Qwest to continue to provide the scope, quality and pricing of services currently provided could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Some of our telecommunications services are provided pursuant to short-term agreements that the providers can terminate or elect not to renew. In addition, each of our telecommunications carriers provides network access to some of our competitors and could choose to grant those competitors preferential network access or pricing. Certain of our telecommunications providers compete with us in the market to provide consumer Internet access. As a result, any or all of our current telecommunications service providers could discontinue providing us with service at rates acceptable to us, or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Market rates for telecommunications services used in our business have declined significantly in recent years. We do not anticipate that such rates will continue to decline at the same rate in the future, if at all. General market forces, the failure of providers, regulatory issues and other factors could result in increased rates. Any increase in market rates would increase the cost of providing our services and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to manage our telecommunications or our internal network capacities, our access service levels may suffer or we may experience increased per-account costs. We will have to accurately anticipate our future telecommunications capacity needs within lead-time requirements. If we fail to procure sufficient quantities of telecommunications services, we may be unable to provide our users with acceptable service levels. Conversely, if we purchase excessive amounts of telecommunications services we will have increased costs, which could decrease our profitability. We have experienced such overcapacity in the past, and we may experience overcapacity in the future. Our failure to effectively manage telecommunications costs could adversely affect our reputation as a quality provider of Internet services or could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, we may from time to time experience increases in our telecommunications usage that exceed our then-available telecommunications capacity and the capacity of our internal servers. As a result, users may be unable to register or log on to our services, may experience a general slow-down in their Internet access or may be disconnected from their sessions. Excessive user demand could also result in system failures of our internal server networks, which would prevent us from generating advertising revenues. Inaccessibility, interruptions or other limitations on the ability to access our services due to excessive user demand, or any failure of our servers to handle user traffic, could adversely effect our reputation, lead to subscriber cancellations and could adversely affect our revenues. Our business will suffer if the scope or quality of service from our telecommunications carriers is inadequate. If our telecommunications service providers deliver unacceptable service, the quality of our Internet access service would suffer. In this event, we would likely lose users who are dissatisfied with our service. Since we do not have direct control over our telecommunications carriers’ network reliability and the quality of their service, we cannot assure you that we will be able to provide consistently reliable Internet access for our users. 23 Our business is highly dependent on our billing and customer support systems, which are based on a combination of third-party software and internally developed software. The software that operates most of our billing and customer support systems for our access service is licensed from Portal Software, Inc. and Remedy, a BMC Software company, and we use a combination of Portal, Remedy and other third-party and internally developed software applications for such customer billing and support. The billing system for Classmates relies on a combination of software licensed from Art Technology Group Inc. (“ATG”), other third-party software applications as well as internally developed software applications. Customer billing and support is a highly complex process, and our systems must efficiently interface with other third parties’ systems such as the systems of credit card processing companies and other companies to whom we outsource billing and support functions. Our ability to accurately and efficiently bill and support our users is dependent on the successful operation of our billing and support systems and third parties’ systems upon which we rely. In addition, our ability to offer new pay services or alternative payment plans is dependent on our ability to customize our billing and support systems. Issues associated with these systems could cause a variety of problems including the failure to bill and collect from users on a timely basis, over-charging or under-charging users, inaccurate financial and customer data, excessive credit card chargebacks or refunds, delays in new product or payment plan introductions and other billing-related errors. Such problems could lead to inaccurate reporting from time to time, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have experienced billing and support problems from time to time and may experience additional problems in the future. The failure of our software vendors to provide software upgrades and technical support, the failure of the Portal, Remedy, ATG or internally developed software to operate accurately, problems with our credit card processor or other billing and support vendors and any other failures or errors in our billing and support systems could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent on third parties for technical support and customer service and our business may suffer if they are unable to provide these services, cannot expand to meet our needs or terminate their relationships with us. Our business and financial results depend, in part, on the availability and quality of our customer support services. We outsource a majority of the live technical and billing support functions to ClientLogic Corporation. As a result, we maintain only a small number of internal customer service personnel. We are not equipped to provide the necessary range of customer service functions in the event that ClientLogic becomes unable or unwilling to offer these services to us. At times, users seeking live customer support have experienced lengthy waiting periods to reach support personnel who are trained to provide the technical or billing support they require. ClientLogic has also experienced outages and other issues in the past which resulted in inadequate service quality and support which adversely impacted our business. Maintaining desired customer support levels may require significantly more support personnel than are currently available to us, or significantly greater expense than we choose to incur. If ClientLogic does not provide us with quality services, or if our relationship with ClientLogic terminates and we are unable to transition such services in-house or to a replacement vendor in an orderly, cost-effective and timely manner, our reputation, business and results of operations would suffer. In addition, we prepay significant amounts in advance to ClientLogic under our agreement with them, and any failure by them to perform the services for which we have prepaid would negatively impact our financial position. If our software or hardware contains errors or fails, if we fail to operate our services effectively or if we encounter difficulties integrating our systems and technologies, our business could be seriously harmed. Our services, and the hardware and software systems underlying our services, are complex. Our systems may contain undetected errors or failures and are susceptible to human error. We have in the past 24 encountered, and may in the future encounter, software and hardware errors, system design errors and errors in the operation of our systems. This has resulted in, and may in the future result in, a number of adverse consequences, which have included or may include: · users being disconnected from our services or being unable to access our services; · loss of data or revenue; · injury to reputation; and · diversion of development resources. We have experienced technical and customer support issues associated with our services and software releases. These issues have resulted in users discontinuing their service and have adversely impacted our revenues. A number of our material technologies and systems are based on different platforms. To the extent we attempt to integrate these technologies and systems, we may experience a number of difficulties, errors, failures and unanticipated costs. In addition, our business relies on third-party software including, without limitation, software licensed from Oracle for our internal operations, software licensed from Portal and Remedy for billing and customer support, software licensed from SlipStream Data Inc. for our accelerated services, software licensed from certain third parties for our VoIP services, and software licensed from certain third parties for our advertising products and services. Any significant failure of this software could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our services also rely on their compatibility with other third-party systems, particularly operating systems. Incompatibility with future changes to third-party software upon which our systems rely could materially affect our ability to deliver our services. We cannot assure you that we will not experience significant technical problems with our services in the future. Our recently launched VoIP services are dependent upon internally developed software, licensed software and third party telecommunications services, all of which are relatively new. Our VoIP services have not yet been operated on a significant scale. There will be bugs and other issues associated with these services. If we experience any material difficulties operating these services on a significant scale, or if the bugs or other issues we encounter with these services are material, our ability to obtain and maintain users will be adversely impacted. A security breach or inappropriate use of our network or services could expose us to claims or a loss of revenue. The success of our business depends on the security of our networks and, in part, on the security of the network infrastructures of our third-party telecommunications service providers, providers of customer support services and other vendors. Unauthorized or inappropriate access to, or use of, our networks, computer systems and services could potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information, including credit card information, of our users and of third parties. Third parties have in the past used our networks, services and brand names to perpetrate crimes, such as identity theft or credit card theft, and may do so in the future. Users or third parties may assert claims of liability against us as a result of any failure by us to prevent security breaches, unauthorized disclosure of user information or other such activities. Although we use security measures that we believe to be industry standard, we cannot assure you that the measures we take will be successfully implemented or will be effective in preventing these types of activities. We also cannot assure you that the security measures of our third-party network providers, providers of customer and billing support services or other vendors will be adequate. In addition to potential legal liability, these activities may adversely impact our reputation or our revenues and may interfere with our ability to provide our services, all of which could adversely impact our business. 25 Harmful software programs such as viruses could disrupt our business. Our business is dependent on the continued acceptance of the Internet as an effective medium. Damaging software programs, such as computer viruses, worms and Trojan horses, have from time to time been disseminated through the Internet and have caused significant disruption to Internet users. Certain of these programs have disabled the ability of computers to access the Internet, requiring users to obtain technical support in order to gain access to the Internet. Other programs have had the potential to damage or delete computer programs. The development and widespread dissemination of harmful programs has the potential to seriously disrupt Internet usage. If Internet usage is significantly disrupted for an extended period of time, or if the prevalence of these programs results in decreased residential Internet usage, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, actions taken by us or our telecommunications providers to attempt to minimize the spread of harmful programs could adversely impact our users’ ability to utilize our services. Our failure to protect our proprietary rights could harm our business. Our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names and trade secrets are important to the success of our business. We principally rely upon patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and contract laws to protect our proprietary technology. We cannot be certain that we have taken adequate steps to prevent misappropriation of our rights. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could adversely affect our brands. Governmental agencies and their designees generally regulate the acquisition and maintenance of domain names. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is in flux and may change. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names in the countries that we conduct, or plan to conduct, business. For example, we do not own the domain name www.unitedonline.com. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, dilute or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Legal actions, particularly those associated with proprietary rights, could subject us to substantial liability and expense and require us to change our business practices. We are currently, and have been in the past, party to various legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. These actions include, without limitation, claims that we infringe third party patents, claims and investigations by governmental agencies and private parties in connection with consumer protection and other laws, claims in connection with employment practices, securities laws claims, breach of contract claims and other business related claims. The nature of our business could subject us to additional claims for similar matters, as well as a wide variety of other claims including, without limitation, claims for defamation, negligence, trademark infringement, copyright infringement, and privacy matters. Defending against lawsuits involves significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources from other matters. We may not prevail in existing actions or actions that may be brought in the future. The failure to successfully defend against certain types of claims, including claims based on infringement of proprietary rights, could require us to change our business practices or obtain licenses from third parties, which licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Lawsuits also involve the risk of significant settlements or judgments against us. Both the cost of defending claims, as well as the effect of settlements and judgments, could cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly from period to period and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 26 We may not realize the benefits associated with our intangible assets and may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we are required to impair our goodwill or identifiable intangible assets. We are required, under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, to review our intangible assets for impairment when events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value amount. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. We have experienced impairment losses in the past and we cannot assure you that we will not experience impairment losses in the future. Any such loss could adversely and materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our VoIP services and our digital photo-sharing services are relatively new and have not generated significant revenues. We have capitalized certain proprietary rights related to our VoIP services as well as certain costs incurred by us in connection with the development of our VoIP services. We have also capitalized goodwill and intangible assets in connection with the acquisition of certain assets related to PhotoSite in March 2005. If these services are not commercially successful, we would likely be required to impair these assets which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to operate our business could be seriously harmed if we lose members of our senior management team or other key employees. Our business is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, particularly Mark Goldston, our chairman, chief executive officer and president, and other key personnel. Any of our officers or employees can terminate his or her employment relationship at any time. The loss of these key employees or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could seriously harm our business and prospects. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees. Government regulation or taxation of the provision of Internet access, VoIP services and other services could decrease our revenues and increase our costs. Changes in the regulatory environment regarding the Internet could decrease our revenues and increase our costs. Currently, ISPs are considered “information service” providers rather than “telecommunications” providers, and regulations that apply to telephone companies and other telecommunications common carriers currently do not apply to our Internet access services. However, our Internet access services could become subject to Federal Communications Commission and state regulation as Internet access services and telecommunications services converge. If the regulatory status of ISPs changes, our business may be adversely affected. In general, VoIP services are deemed interstate services subject to regulation by the FCC. The FCC made this determination concerning a VoIP service offering by a particular provider of VoIP services. This FCC finding was specific to a particular company that provides a different service than we offer, and our offering of VoIP services may or may not be found to be an interstate offering. Further, the FCC’s order finding that a particular type of VoIP service is interstate has been appealed. We cannot predict what the outcome of the appeal will be nor can we predict what impact, if any, it may have on our business. On February 12, 2004, the FCC opened a rulemaking proceeding that is considering, among other things, whether to classify VoIP services as information or telecommunications services under federal law. Other issues under consideration include access to telephone numbers, contributions to the Universal Service Fund, the applicability of certain consumer protection rules, intercarrier compensation arrangements and issues relating to the impact of VoIP services on providers of traditional telecommunications services in rural areas. Based on the conclusions reached in that rulemaking, additional regulatory requirements, fees and surcharges may apply to our VoIP services, which may increase the costs associated with our VoIP offerings. As a result, we may have to raise prices or terminate certain or all of our VoIP offerings. 27 On June 3, 2005, the FCC released an order and notice of proposed rulemaking concerning the provision of emergency services by certain VoIP providers. While the order does not currently apply to our VoIP services, the FCC’s rulemaking is considering whether to extend the order requiring providers of VoIP services to offer E-911 capabilities to VoIP services like ours. Should this occur, we would incur additional expenses and could be restricted from offering our service or accepting new customers in markets where we have not deployed an E-911 solution that conforms to the requirements of the order. We have not deployed an E-911 solution and do not expect to have an E-911 solution available in the near term, if at all. On September 9, 2005, the FCC granted, in part, a petition from the California Public Utilities Commission, or CPUC, seeking authority to implement two statewide specialized area code overlays in California. VoIP and dialup Internet access services may be subject to the specialized overlays should the CPUC choose to implement their delegated authority. If the CPUC does so, users of VoIP services could be required to obtain telephone numbers from specific area codes and we could be required to provision new telephone numbers to our customers that access our service via dialup accounts. The FCC’s order allows the CPUC to determine what services will be required to assign numbers from the specialized overlay area codes. Should the CPUC determine that VoIP providers must assign telephone numbers from the specialized overlay area codes, we could be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to traditional telecommunications providers because our ability to offer telephone numbers from a variety of California area codes would be limited. Also, future customers may not be able to transfer their existing telephone numbers to our service. These results could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain parties have filed petitions for reconsideration of the FCC’s order that could result in the modification of the FCC’s delegation of authority to the CPUC. The Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, or CALEA, mandates that providers of communications services assist law enforcement agencies in conducting lawfully authorized electronic surveillance. On September 23, 2005, the FCC released an order concluding that CALEA applies to certain VoIP providers. Currently, that order does not apply to VoIP services like those we provide. However, the FCC is considering whether to expand the scope of the order to include VoIP providers like us. We cannot predict what the FCC will conclude in that proceeding or what effect, if any, it may have on our business. On February 14, 2006, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that will examine existing practices in the telecommunications industry to protect consumers’ privacy. The FCC is considering, among other issues, the security measures carriers currently have in place, what inadequacies exist in those measures, and what additional or enhanced security measures may be warranted to better protect consumers’ privacy. The FCC is also seeking comment on whether it is appropriate to extend these privacy rules to providers of VoIP and other IP-enabled services. If the rules are adopted and applied to our VoIP services, the proposed requirements could change the way that we interact with our subscribers and how we maintain or share customer records, and could therefore impose new costs on our business. Although these federal regulations applicable to certain VoIP services do not currently apply to our VoIP services, our VoIP services may subsequently become subject to these regulations as well as other state or federal regulations as a result of changes we make to these services, changes made to the regulations or the interpretation of them, or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to our VoIP services. Moreover, if we offer new services that are subject to different and additional governmental regulation, we may have to comply with additional laws and regulations that currently are not applicable to us. If the regulatory status of our VoIP service offerings changes or if we offer new services that subject us to new laws and regulations, our business may be adversely affected. The Internet Tax Freedom Act, which placed a moratorium on new state and local taxes on Internet commerce, has been extended through November 2007. However, future laws imposing taxes or other regulations on the provision of goods and services over the Internet could make it substantially more 28 expensive to operate our business. In addition, the FCC is in the process of determining whether certain federal taxes and other regulatory charges, such as Universal Service Funding, should apply to VoIP service providers. The FCC’s state preemption order also did not preclude states from attempting to tax VoIP service providers or from imposing surcharges like those applicable to E-911 services. Accordingly, future action could be taken to impose various federal, state and local taxes on our VoIP services or to subject us to E-911 surcharges regardless of whether the FCC’s VoIP E-911 order applies to our service offering. Our business is also subject to a variety of other U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that could subject us to liabilities, claims or other remedies, such as laws relating to bulk email or “spam,” access to various types of content by minors, anti-spyware initiatives, encryption, data protection, security breaches and consumer protection. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and may impose significant additional costs on us. The compliance efforts of third parties could also make it more expensive for us to operate our business. For example, AOL and Yahoo! recently announced their plans to reduce the amount of bulk email or “spam” sent through their email services by changing their “whitelists” into a pay program pursuant to which bulk email senders would be required to pay a per-email-fee to guarantee the delivery of their messages. In addition, the regulatory framework relating to Internet services is evolving and both the federal government and states from time to time pass legislation that impacts our business. There are a number of legislative proposals before the United States Congress and various state legislative bodies that may relate to our business. It is likely that additional laws and regulations will be adopted that would affect our business. The adoption of additional laws and regulations that affect our competitors, for example, network neutrality proposals, could also have an effect our business. We cannot predict the impact that future regulatory changes or developments may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations, increased enforcement activity of existing laws and regulations, or claims by individuals could significantly impact our costs or the manner in which we conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. Changes in, or interpretations of, laws regarding consumer protection could subject us to liability or cause us to change our practices. Consumer protection laws and enforcement actions regarding advertising and user privacy, especially relating to children, are becoming more prevalent. The FTC has conducted investigations into the privacy practices of companies that collect information about individuals on the Internet. The FTC has also investigated us and other ISPs in connection with marketing, billing, customer retention, cancellation and disclosure practices. Juno and the FTC entered into a consent agreement, which was approved by the FTC on June 29, 2001, that provides for redress payments and specific disclosures or notices regarding, among other things, the cost of its Internet access services, its cancellation terms and local versus long-distance charges, as well as the requirement to provide adequate customer support to process cancellations. We received an inquiry regarding our compliance with the consent agreement on October 14, 2005, and we submitted a response on December 14, 2005. We have not received any further communication on this matter. Various state agencies as well as individuals have also asserted claims against, or instituted inquiries into, ISPs, including Juno and NetZero, in connection with marketing, billing, customer retention, cancellation and disclosure practices. We cannot assure you that our services and business practices, or changes to our services and business practices, will not subject us to claims and liability by private parties, the FTC or other governmental agencies. 29 Our business could be shut down or severely impacted by a catastrophic event. Our computer equipment and the telecommunications infrastructure of our third-party network providers are vulnerable to damage from fire, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorism and similar events. We have experienced situations where power loss and telecommunications failures have adversely impacted our services, although to date such failures have not been material to our operations. A significant portion of our computer equipment, including critical equipment dedicated to our Internet access services, is located at our headquarters in Woodland Hills, California and at facilities in and around Los Angeles, California; San Jose, California; Ashburn, Virginia; Renton, Washington and New York, New York. In the past, areas in California have experienced repeated episodes of diminished electrical power supply, or “rolling blackouts.” A natural disaster, terrorism, power blackout or other unanticipated problem at our headquarters or at a network hub, or within a third-party network provider’s network, could cause interruptions in the services that we provide. Our systems are not fully redundant. Any prolonged disruption of our services due to system failures could result in user turnover and decreased revenues. Our business could be severely impacted due to political instability or other factors in India. We have a significant number of employees located in our India office. Our operations in India primarily handle email customer support, product development and quality assurance. A portion of our outsourced customer support is also based in India. Our product development, customer support and quality assurance operations would be severely disrupted if telecommunications issues, political instability or other factors adversely impacted these operations or our ability to communicate with these operations. Any disruption that continued for an extended period of time would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our customers and develop our products since it would take a significant period of time to transition these operations internally or to an outside vendor. If we were to cease our operations in India and transfer these operations to another geographic area, such change could result in increased overhead costs which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. We cannot predict our future capital needs and we may not be able to secure additional financing. We may need to raise additional funds in the future to fund our operations, for acquisitions of businesses or technologies or for other purposes. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or not available when required in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, we may not be able to devote sufficient cash resources to continue to provide our services in their current form, acquire additional users, enhance or expand our services, respond to competitive pressures or take advantage of perceived opportunities, and our business and its future prospects may suffer. We may stop paying quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Commencing with the second quarter of 2005, we have declared and paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share of common stock. The payment of future dividends is discretionary and will be subject to determination by our board of directors each quarter following its review of our financial performance. Our future cash flows will significantly decline from what we experienced in 2005 due to the payment of income taxes, and our cash balances will decline if we use our cash to acquire businesses, repurchase stock or for other purposes. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends, and if we do not, our stock price could be negatively impacted. We have anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders because of a premium 30 price offered by a potential acquirer. In addition, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, which is an anti-takeover measure that will cause substantial dilution to a person who attempts to acquire our company on terms not approved by our board of directors. Our stock price has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our stock began trading on the Nasdaq National Market in September 2001 and it is likely to continue to be volatile with extreme volume fluctuations. In addition, the Nasdaq National Market, where most publicly held Internet companies are traded, has experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and for this or other reasons we could suffer significant declines in the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 