Item 1A. Risk Factors: Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY We have experienced net losses in recent years and expect to incur losses in the future. We have had a history of net losses from our inception in January 1999 through the first half of 2003.While we were profitable in several quarters from 2003 through 2006, we have experienced quarterly net losses since then, and at December 31, 2011 had an accumulated deficit of $118.7 million. If we do not become consistently profitable, our accumulated deficit will grow larger, and we could require additional financing to continue operations. If we do not become consistently profitable and additional funding is required to support our business, financing may not be accessible on acceptable terms, if at all. We cannot guarantee that our revenues will increase sufficiently to achieve and maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our profitability is dependent of the health of the residential real estate market, which is subject to macroeconomic forces that are beyond our control and may be difficult to predict. The success of our business depends to a significant extent on the health of the residential real estate market, which traditionally has been subject to cyclical economic swings as well as other changes in local, regional, national or seasonal economic conditions. The decision to purchase or sell residential real estate can be delayed or terminated based on macroeconomic conditions that, for example, reduce discretionary income. Macroeconomic factors that could adversely affect the demand for residential real estate and harm our business include, among others, economic slowdown or recession, changes in the availability and affordability of mortgages or extensions of credit, a rise in the number of foreclosures and other distressed properties available for sale, rising interest rates, inflation, disruptions in capital markets, declines in the stock market, adverse tax policies or changes in other regulations, increased unemployment, lower consumer confidence, lower wage and salary levels, war or terrorist attacks, natural disaster, energy price spikes, or actions taken by the Federal Reserve Board to regulate the supply of money, or the public perception that any of these events may occur. In addition, federal and state governments, agencies and government-sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could take actions that result in unforeseen consequences or that otherwise could negatively impact our business. The impact on our business of macroeconomic forces, over which we have no control, can be difficult to predict. For example, demand for housing could decrease, which should reduce the number of completed transactions and, consequently, revenues. Home sales prices could decrease, which should depress revenue and gross margins on completed transactions. Gross margins could decrease through higher costs. These and other consequences could significantly impair our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. 12 Recently, we have implemented several changes to our business model and operations that were designed to improve our financial condition and prospects for growth, but there can be no assurance that we will realize the intended benefits from these changes, or that we will not suffer unintended consequences. Since early 2011, we have undertaken several initiatives to improve our financial condition and prospects for long-term growth, including by improving our cash flow and converting a greater portion of our cost structure from fixed to variable. Specifically: •We completed the transition of the real estate agents in our owned-and-operated brokerage from an employee model to an independent contractor model, with the aim of increasing agent productivity and customer service levels. •To heighten our focus on our core strengths in technology, online marketing and our most attractive local real estate markets, we closed our owned-and-operated brokerage offices in a total of fourteen markets and are in the process of closing Salt Lake City, UT. In that restructuring, we also reorganized local management responsibilities and significantly reduced our corporate sales support and administration to reduce costs and to encourage greater local independence and efficiency. We also began to realign our organization to operate more efficiently and to refocus our resources on the highest value priorities, including by combining our product and marketing functions, and by separating our brokerage operations from our technology and marketing functions. •To leverage our strengths to generate additional revenues at attractive margins, we began building our Powered-by-Zip network with select third-party local brokerages, pursuant to which we provide access to our proprietary information and systems, including our website and our ZAP sales system, in exchange for fees. •We ceased offering a standard rebate to home buyers in our owned-and-operated brokerage, to highlight and enhance the professionalism and quality of service of our agents, as well as to improve financial productivity. •To improve the marketing of our website and our agents’ services by providing more information to users prior to registration, we opened access to the MLS information available on our website data by removing our user registration requirement, to the extent not required by MLS rules, for consumers who come directly to our website. There can be no assurances that we will realize any of the benefits we intended from these actions, or that we will not suffer unintended consequences from them. For example, we believe that we may have experienced increased agent attrition because of the stresses associated with the above changes to our business. We could experience additional negative consequences, including the loss of real estate agents and client transactions, from these changes to our organization, our business model and our culture. We have opened our website to give users access to more information before registering with us, and if the resulting changes in lead patterns disrupts our agent productivity and turnover, our profitability could be harmed. Prior to 2011, we imposed a user registration requirement on most of the MLS data available on our website, whether or not required by local MLS rules. In early 2011, we began testing the opening of our website, to the extent permitted by MLS rules, to provide more information prior to registration for consumers who come directly to our website. We have since opened our website in all markets served by our owned-and- operated brokerage, as well as all but one market served through our Powered-by-Zip network. We believe that opening our website will create changes in our lead patterns, including potential changes in lead volume, cost, location, client characteristics, and other qualities. Any change in our lead patterns could disrupt agent productivity and increase agent turnover, which could negatively affect our revenues and increase our costs of acquiring and retaining agents, each of which would negatively impact our profitability. We may suffer significant financial harm and loss of reputation if we do not comply, cannot comply, or are alleged to have not complied with applicable laws, rules and regulations concerning our classification and compensation practices for our agents. As of January 31, 2011, all agents in our owned-and-operated brokerage have been retained as independent contractors. With respect to our independent contractor agents, and like most brokerages, we are subject to the Internal Revenue Service regulations and applicable state law guidelines regarding independent contractor classification. These regulations and guidelines are subject to judicial and agency interpretation, and it might be determined that the independent contractor classification is inapplicable to any of our agents. Further, if legal standards for classification of agents as independent contractors change or appear to be changing, it may be necessary to modify our compensation structure for these agents in some or all of our markets, including by paying additional compensation or reimbursing expenses. For most of our history prior to 2011, nearly all agents in our owned-and-operated brokerage were retained as employees, not independent contractors. For our agent employment practices during that period, we continue to be subject to laws regarding employee classification and compensation, many of which do not apply to traditional brokerages that retain agents only as independent contractors. We classified our employee agents as exempt from federal and state regulations regarding overtime and minimum wage payments because their duties, which consisted of working in the field selling residential real estate, were designed to qualify for the “outside sales exemption” under the terms of the Fair Labor Standards Act and various state laws. These employment and compensation regulations are subject to judicial and agency interpretation, and as to any individual agents or groups of agents, if their duties as employees were different than those assigned and contemplated by our official policy, it might be determined that the outside sales exemption was inapplicable to those agents. 13 For example, in August and September 2010, four of our former employee real estate agents in California filed complaints with the California Division of Labor Standards Enforcement alleging that we failed to pay them minimum wage and overtime as required by California law. In November 2010, the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement issued decisions in favor of these persons. We appealed this decision, and in September 2011, the court issued a judgment in favor of these persons totaling $330,202. In November 2011, we reached a settlement with these four former agents, and the court vacated the judgment against us in exchange for a payment to the four agents totaling $430,202 and a payment to the California Division of Labor Standards Enforcement of $155,867. In addition, in September 2011, the California State Labor Commissioner filed a lawsuit against us concerning our compensation practices regarding real estate agents in California, who at the time at issue were classified as employees. Specifically, the complaint alleges that we failed to pay these persons minimum wage and overtime, and failed to provide itemized wage statements, as required by California laws. In addition to wages and overtime, the complaint seeks liquidated damages, for a total claim in excess of $17 million. Also, in February 2012, two real estate sales agents formerly employed by us, on behalf of themselves and all other similarly situated individuals, filed a lawsuit against us in federal court in Arizona concerning our compensation practices nationwide regarding our real estate agents, who at the time at issue were classified as employees. Specifically, the complaint alleges that we failed to pay these persons minimum wage and overtime as required by federal law. In addition to the federal law allegations, the complaint also alleges violations of the Arizona Minimum Wage law. The complaint seeks liquidated and treble damages in addition to wages and overtime for an unspecified amount. Also in February 2012, one real estate agent formerly employed by us and subsequently engaged with us as an independent contractor, on behalf of herself and all other similarly situated individuals, filed a lawsuit against us in California Superior Court concerning our compensation practices regarding real estate agents in California. Specifically, the complaint alleges that we failed to pay these persons minimum wage and overtime, failed to provide meal and rest periods, failed to reimburse employee expenses and failed to provide itemized wage statements as required by California laws. The complaint seeks unspecified damages including penalties and attorneys’ fees in addition to wages and overtime. We could incur substantial costs, penalties and damages, including back pay, unpaid employee benefits, taxes, expense reimbursement and attorneys’ fees in defending the above complaints or future challenges by additional current or former agents to our agent classification or compensation practices. For example, when our former agent compensation and expense reimbursement policies were challenged in class action lawsuits filed previously against us, we incurred material litigation and settlement costs and modified our expense reimbursement policies. Any of these outcomes could result in substantial costs to us, could significantly impair our financial condition and our ability to conduct our business as we choose, and could damage our reputation and impair our ability to attract home buyers, home sellers and agents. We have recently experienced market share declines in several markets in our owned-and-operated brokerage, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to grow local market share profitably. The residential real estate industry is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. In our owned-and-operated brokerage, our aggregate transaction volume market share in our local markets has averaged less than 1% historically, and in several of these markets, we have recently experienced a loss of market share. To capture and retain market share in our owned-and-operated brokerage, we must compete successfully against other brokerages not only for large numbers of clients, but also for large numbers of agents. Because the market is highly fragmented and brokerage fees are variable, competitors may reduce fees to attract business. In addition, many of these brokerages have valuable relationships, innovative models, or access to greater resources than we do. Many of our markets are composed of entrenched brokerages with superior local referral networks, name recognition and perceived local knowledge and expertise. These attributes give these brokerages an advantage in agent recruitment and retention, in attracting clients, and in building their listings business. Many brokerages also have more experience than us in acting as listing agents, as we have traditionally focused on clients looking to buy homes, with buyers representing 90% of our closed transactions in 2011. Some of our competitors with greater resources may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns or to better withstand price competition in a market. Unless our owned-and-operated brokerage can develop the relationships, branding, reputation, expertise and personnel to compete with these brokerages without reducing our prices or increasing our agent compensation, we may not be able grow our listings business, attract buyers, or attract and retain agents as needed to maintain or grow our market share profitably. Our Powered by Zip network is a new and unproven business opportunity, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to operate and grow it profitably. In early 2011, we began to build our Powered by Zip network with select third-party local brokerages, through which we provide access to our proprietary information and systems, including our website and our ZAP sales system. Currently, our Powered by Zip network consists of local brokerages in only six markets, into a seventh market shortly. Our Powered by Zip network is a new and unproven business opportunity that is still developing in many respects, including the services we provide under that network, pricing and conversion targets related to those services, and exclusivity terms. In addition, to expand the Powered by Zip network into additional markets, and to service those markets through our online URL, we will need to obtain MLS data in those markets, which the local MLSs may not be willing to provide because we will not be the brokerage that is using that data to service consumers. Further, by linking our name with the third-party brokerages in our Powered by Zip network, any negative action taken by one of those brokerages could negatively affect our reputation and, consequently, our business. There can be no assurance that our Powered by Zip network can be expanded into a profitable and meaningful business. 14 We have experienced significant changes in our management team, and if we cannot successfully manage these changes or retain and attract key personnel, our business could be harmed. Our success depends on the contributions of our senior sales, operations, marketing, technology and financial personnel. We have recently experienced significant transitions in our management team. Since December 2011, our former Senior Vice President of Sales and our former Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer have resigned, and our Vice President of Human Resources and Vice President of Operations have indicated that they plan to resign from their positions with us in the near future. We have restructured, or plan to restructure, our organization to assign those responsibilities to other members of senior management. In addition, our Chief Financial Officer has announced his intent to retire when we complete a search for his replacement. We have created and are seeking a person to fill a new position — President of Brokerage Operations — to drive our owned-and-operated brokerage going forward. We could experience additional changes in our management team or other key personnel. All of our officers and key employees are at-will employees, and, with the exception of Mr. Baker, none of them has an employment agreement with us. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our personnel . If we cannot adapt to changes in our management team or other key personnel quickly and effectively, or if we lose the services of additional key personnel, our business operations and our financial results could be significantly harmed. If we do not remain innovation leaders in our industry, we may not be able to grow our business and leverage our costs to achieve profitability. Innovation has been critical to our ability to leverage our costs while competing against other brokerages for clients and agents. For example, we have been at the forefront of brokerages in embracing the Internet by operating a virtual office website, or VOW, which reduces our need for office space and facilitates the transaction of business away from an office. We have also been at the forefront of managing lead acquisition costs by employing technology designed to promote efficient lead utilization, by using a centralized lead acquisition and distribution function, and by attracting consumers directly to our site for those markets we serve. As others follow our practices or develop their own innovative practices, and as consumers increasingly gain options for online real estate information and services, our ability to leverage our costs to achieve profitability may erode. For example, certain other brokerages, media companies, Multiple Listing Services, or MLSs, and the National Association of REALTORS®, or NAR, operate competing websites and are increasingly using the Internet to market to potential customers throughout the United States. Customers may not distinguish or value the benefits of our website and technology offerings as compared against these competing offerings, particularly if MLSs adopt rules that erode the distinction between the MLS data that can be shown online by brokers who operate VOWs and by brokers who do not. Such organizations could also build applications or offer products, including home listings and related information, that attract online traffic away from our website. In particular, NAR is in the process of developing a nation-wide MLS, which could significantly divert consumers away from our website. Such organizations could devote substantial resources to dominating social media and online advertising, which would also impair our ability to attract website traffic. If our advantage in attracting website traffic erodes, our need to purchase leads from third parties will increase, thus increasing our costs. If we do not remain on the forefront of innovation to leverage our costs effectively, we may not be able to achieve profitability. Providing online access to comprehensive MLS listings and related information concerning the residential real estate market is a hallmark of our business, and our ability to attract and service consumers and to manage lead acquisition costs would be harmed if our ability to provide or advertise this access is impaired. A key component of our business strategy is to attract consumers directly to our website, thereby reducing our need to purchase leads from third parties. To do so, through our website, we offer consumers access to, and the ability to search, real estate listings posted on the MLSs in the markets served by our owned-and-operated brokerage or Powered by Zip network, as well as related neighborhood information and maps. Our ability to display this information is subject to agreements with third parties, which may or may not be available on acceptable terms in the future. Those third parties operate their own technology platforms, and we may be unable to interoperate with those platforms cost-effectively or at all. Further, we could lose access to that information in the event of a systems failure or a dispute with those information providers. In addition, our ability to provide Internet access to home listings information could be diminished if increasing numbers of homeowners opt-out of providing their home listings information on the Internet, which is permitted by the rules of many MLSs, including those affiliated with NAR. Also, NAR is in the process of developing a nation-wide MLS, which could significantly change the current practice of listing homes for sale on individual MLSs. It is too soon to tell whether this new model will impair the home listings information we make available on our website, or the perceived value of that information. Should any such event occur, we expect that our website and services would become less attractive consumers, and we would likely need to purchase additional, and more costly, leads from third parties, increasing our expenses. 15 If we do not adapt to changes in technologies and practices relating to the nature and use of information, our operating results could suffer. We believe that we rely more heavily on technology than traditional bricks-and-mortar brokerages to gather, store, evaluate and communicate information, including our efforts to generate leads via the Internet, to prioritize leads, to empower agents via our ZAP agent platform, and to service home buyers and sellers, including by providing online access to comprehensive MLS listings. To continue to perform those functions effectively, we will need to adapt to changes in technologies and practices concerning the nature and use of information. For example, we will need to adapt our website and our ZAP agent platform to be compatible with new Internet and mobile access tools. We may need to adapt our approach for generating website traffic to address evolving customer interests, for example, a greater interest in social websites, in local neighborhood information, or in alternative media. We may need to adapt our technology or change our practices to address new Internet regulations, as well as new “spam” filters that incorrectly treat our emails to clients as unsolicited materials and block them. We must constantly modify our technology to successfully interact with each independent MLS in order to maintain access to that MLS’s home listings information. In addition, if the current practice of listing homes for sale on individual MLSs is challenged or replaced by a competing system, such as the nation-wide MLS system being developed by NAR, we will need to adapt to that change to continue operating our business. Some of our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and practices relating to the nature and use of information. If we cannot make such adaptations quickly so as not to erode the competitive advantages our products offer in attracting and servicing clients and agents, or we do so in a manner that increases our expenses without a related increase in revenues, our operating results could suffer. Our business practices are heavily regulated, and we may suffer significant financial harm and loss of reputation if we do not comply, cannot comply, or are alleged to have not complied with applicable laws, rules and regulations. Our business practices are heavily regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities, as well as the standards of private trade associations to which we belong. These regulations and standards are discussed in more detail in Item I of Part I of this report under “Regulatory Matters.” In addition to the regulations concerning agent classification and compensation that are discussed in the following risk factor, the laws, rules and regulations that apply to our business practices include the following: •State real estate brokerage licensing requirements, as well as statutory due diligence, disclosure, record keeping and standard-of-care obligations relating to these licenses; •The federal Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the federal Fair Housing Act, and federal advertising and other laws, as well as comparable state statutes; •Rules of trade organization such as NAR, local MLSs, and state and local AORs; •Licensing requirements and related obligations that could arise from our business practices relating to the provision of services other than real estate brokerage services; •Privacy regulations relating to our use of personal information collected from the registered users of our website; •The Federal Trade Commission Act and similar state laws that prohibit unfair and deceptive business practices with consumers; and •Laws relating to the use and publication of information through the Internet. Because our business practices are heavily regulated, maintaining legal compliance is challenging and increases our costs, and we must continually monitor our business practices for compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. We may not become aware of all the laws, rules and regulations that govern our business, or be able to comply with all of them, given the rate of regulatory changes, ambiguities in regulations, contradictions in regulations between jurisdictions, and the difficulties in achieving both company-wide and region-specific knowledge and compliance. If we fail, or are alleged to have failed, to comply with any existing or future applicable laws, rules and regulations, we could be subject to lawsuits and administrative complaints and proceedings, as well as criminal proceedings, and we could incur significant defense costs, settlement costs, damages and penalties for non-compliance. We could also have our business licenses suspended or revoked, have our business practices enjoined, or be required to modify our business practices, which could materially impair, or even prevent, our ability to conduct all or any portion of our business. Any such events could also damage our reputation and impair our ability to attract and service home buyers, home sellers and agents, as well our ability to attract brokerages to our Powered by Zip network, without increasing our related costs. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover claims of these types or may be inadequate to protect us from all liability that we may incur. In addition, if we cannot in the future obtain and maintain all of the regulatory approvals and licenses we may need to carry on our business as we choose, our ability to conduct business may be harmed. Further, any lobbying or related activities we undertake in response to current or new regulations could substantially increase our operating costs. We derive a significant portion of our leads through third parties, and if any of our significant lead generation relationships are terminated, impaired or become more expensive, we may not be able to attract consumers and grow our business without a substantial increase in expenses. We generate customer leads through many sources, including leads from third parties with which we have only non-exclusive, short-term agreements that are generally terminable on little or no notice and with no penalties. For example, our largest third-party lead source generated over 22% of our leads during 2011. We could lose a large lead supplier, whether through insolvency or otherwise. Also, state laws or NAR or MLS rules could make it more difficult or expensive for lead generators to provide us with sufficient leads for our owned-and-operated brokerage or Powered by Zip network. Should any of these events occur, or should leads otherwise become less available or more costly, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of leads to grow our business in our owned-and-operated brokerage or Powered by Zip network without a substantial increase in expenses. 16 If our arrangements for diversifying our revenue stream become impaired, our financial condition could suffer. In addition to our core business of directly helping clients to buy and sell homes, we have introduced our products and services in other channels to diversify our revenue stream while further leveraging our strengths in technology and online marketing. We realize additional revenues by offering marketing and advertising programs to the providers of transaction-related services that surround our core business, by offering advertising and lead generation services to third parties, and by providing access to our proprietary information and systems, including our website and our ZAP sales system, for use by third-party brokerages, such as through our Powered by Zip network. For example, we have entered into a marketing agreement with Bank of America. Under that agreement, Bank of America pays us a flat monthly fee (which typically represents 3% or less of our monthly net revenues) in exchange for our commitment to market its mortgage products and other services to our clients. If these relationships are terminated or otherwise become impaired, we could lose sources of revenues that we may not be able to readily replace, and our brand name and client relationships could suffer. Also, upon the termination of an arrangement with an independent third party to provide services, we or our affiliates may be required to pay certain costs or fees or be precluded from performing such services for a period of time. In addition, our clients could have a more difficult time obtaining the financing or other services needed to purchase a home through us, which could negatively impact our transaction revenues. Any of these events could negatively impact our financial condition. Our value proposition for agents, which includes access to client leads and customer relationship management tools at no out-of pocket cost to them, is not typical on our industry, and if agents do not understand this proposition or value its attributes, whether in its current form or as we may test or implement changes to it, we may not be able to attract, retain and incentivize agents. Typically, real estate agents who want to acquire client leads and customer relationship management tools must pay for them. However, we provide agents in our owned-and-operated brokerage with access to client leads and our ZAP sales system, with its proprietary customer relationship management tools, at no out-of-pocket cost to them. These features represent a key component of our agent value proposition, which includes a complementary commission structure that is lower than what we would be able to pay if we did not offer these features. Our standard value proposition may not be attractive to certain agents who have developed their own client pipeline. Also, because our agent value proposition is not typical in our industry, agents may not understand or appreciate it. In addition, agents may not appreciate the modifications to our agent value proposition that we may test and implement from time to time. If agents do not understand the elements of our agent value proposition, or do not perceive it to be more valuable than the models used by most of our competitors, we may not be able to attract, retain and incentivize them to grow our revenues without significantly increasing our commission splits or other costs, which would reduce our gross margins. Our efforts to offer advertising and lead generation services through our website could distract consumers from using our website to engage in residential real estate transactions. We have entered into agreements to use our website to provide advertising and lead generation services to third parties in exchange for fixed monthly payments and, in some cases, volume-based and performance-based fees. We are exploring additional opportunities to leverage the advertising and lead generation capacities of our website. These activities may distract visitors to our site. They can also interrupt the registration-to-transaction path of our users, including by leading them away from our website. In addition, these activities may detract from our perceived commitment to user satisfaction and customer service, or may not be well received by visitors to our site for other reasons. Any of these outcomes could impair the ability of our owned-and-operated brokerage and Powered by Zip network to engage in residential real estate transactions with our website visitors. As we pursue opportunities to increase our revenues, we may reduce our profit margins. We may implement changes to our business model and operations to improve our revenues that cause a disproportionate increase in our expenses and reduce our profit margins. For example, we may increase the portion of our owned-and-operated brokerage that is composed of representing sellers in their home listings, through which we would incur costs that we do not incur when representing buyers, such as marketing costs. We may make further revisions to the agent compensation model in our owned-and-operated brokerage or replace it with a different model. We may disproportionately build our business in lower-priced markets or with transactions that comprise lower-priced homes, or we may expand into new business models with different revenue-operating expense mixes. These changes could also involve significant start-up costs that may only be recovered, if ever, after we have been operating in those markets or businesses for some time. Any of these attempts to improve our revenues could result in a disproportionate increase in our expenses and in reduced profit margins. Our operating results are subject to seasonality and vary significantly among quarters during each calendar year, making meaningful comparisons of successive quarters difficult. The residential real estate market traditionally has experienced seasonality, with a peak in the spring and summer seasons and a decrease in activity during the fall and winter seasons. Revenues in each quarter are significantly affected by activity during the prior quarter, given the typical 30- to 45-day time lag between contract execution and closing for traditional home purchases. For non-traditional sales, the time lag from contract execution to closing can be a few months. Historically, this seasonality has caused our revenues, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities to be lower in the first and fourth quarters and higher in the second and third quarters of each year. However, there can be no assurance that the seasonality pattern for any fiscal year will be consistent with past experience, and macroeconomic changes in the market could mask the impact of seasonality. 17 Factors affecting the timing of real estate transactions that can cause our quarterly results to fluctuate include the timing of widely observed holidays and vacation periods, decisions to relocate prior to the start of the school year, inclement weather, and the timing of employment compensation changes and events, such as pay raises and bonus payments. We expect our revenues to continue to be subject to these seasonal fluctuations, which, combined with any growth in our business and the effects of macroeconomic market changes, may make it difficult to compare or analyze our financial performance effectively across successive quarters. If we fail to protect the privacy of personal information that our registered users share with us, our reputation and our business could be significantly harmed. Our website’s registered users share with us personal information such as name, address, telephone number and email address. Our use and disclosure of that information is regulated by federal and state privacy laws. To comply with these laws, we have adopted a privacy policy, which we post on our website, that explains to our users that agents will see information concerning their home searches on our website, as well as how and with whom we may share their personal information. We also inform our users that we will not share their personal information with third parties without their consent. We could incur legal liability if our privacy policy or consent process is deemed to lack clarity or to otherwise give insufficient notice of how we share personal information, if we share personal information in violation of our privacy policy, or if third parties with whom we share personal information fail to protect the privacy of that information. Our legal liability could include significant defense costs, settlement costs, damages and penalties. Also, any claim that we failed to protect the privacy of our users’ personal information could damage our reputation with consumers, which could significantly impair our ability to attract clients. Any of these outcomes could have a significant negative impact on our business and financial performance. Our failure to effectively manage the growth of our technology and control systems to service consumers and agents and maintain legal compliance could adversely affect our financial position. As our business grows in terms of the number of consumers, agents and transactions we service, and the distribution channels in which we offer our products and services, our success will depend on our ability to expand, maintain and improve the technology that supports our business operations, as well as our financial and management information and control systems, and to maintain effective cost controls. Our ability to manage these efforts and to maintain legal compliance could be thwarted by many factors, including turnover in management and the lack of adequate staffing with the requisite expertise and training. If our operational technology is not sufficient to service agents and their clients, then the number of agents who wish to use our products could decrease, the level of client service and transaction volume afforded by our systems could suffer, and our costs could increase. In addition, if our systems, procedures or controls are not adequate to support our operations and reliable, accurate and timely financial and other reporting, we may not be able to satisfy regulatory scrutiny or contractual obligations with third parties and may suffer a loss of reputation. Any of these events could negatively affect our financial position. Our business, financial condition and reputation may be substantially harmed by security breaches, interruptions, delays and failures in our systems and operations. The performance and reliability of our systems and operations are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and service home buyers, home sellers and agents, as well our ability to attract brokerages to our Powered by Zip network. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to security breaches, interruption or malfunction due to certain events beyond our control, including natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fire and flood, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. In addition, we rely on third party vendors to operate our network infrastructure co-location and to provide additional systems and related support. If we cannot continue to retain these services on acceptable terms, our access to these systems and services could be interrupted. Any security breach, interruption, delay or failure in our systems and operations could substantially reduce the transaction volume that can be processed with our systems, impair quality of service, increase costs, prompt litigation and other consumer claims, and damage our reputation, any of which could substantially harm our financial condition. Our business is geographically concentrated, which makes us more susceptible to business interruption and financial loss due to natural disasters, inclement weather, economic or market conditions or other regional events outside of our control. To date, our business has been conducted principally in a few states in the western United States, especially California, and along the eastern seaboard. For example, in the markets that we served through our owned-and-operated brokerage at the end of 2011, we derived more than one-third of our net transaction revenues for that year in the State of California. Our geographic concentration makes us more vulnerable to forces and events beyond our control, such as regional disasters including earthquakes, severe weather, economic or market conditions, terrorist attacks, or population shifts away from our markets. These events could cause us to sustain a business interruption or other financial loss that would be greater than if our business were more dispersed geographically. In addition, our headquarters is located in the San Francisco Bay region of California, which is known for earthquakes. A disaster in this region could interrupt our financial functions and impair access to internal systems, documents and equipment that are critical to the operation of our business. 18 Our intellectual property rights are valuable and our failure to protect those rights could adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property rights, including existing and future patents, trademarks, trade secrets and copyrights, are and will continue to be valuable and important assets of our business. We believe that our proprietary ZAP technology and email alerts, as well as our ability to interoperate with multiple MLSs and our other technologies and business practices, are competitive advantages and that any duplication by competitors would harm our business. We have taken measures to protect our intellectual property, but these measures may not be sufficient or effective. For example, we seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. Intellectual property laws and contractual restrictions may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter others from developing similar technologies. In addition, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, including our patented technology, or that otherwise prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to use our intellectual property. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business. We could be subject to intellectual property rights disputes that adversely affect our business. As noted above, our business depends on the protection and utilization of our intellectual property to provide our products and services. We may bring lawsuits to protect against the potential infringement of our intellectual property rights. In addition, other companies, including our competitors, may make claims against us alleging our infringement of their intellectual property rights. For example, two companies have filed lawsuits against us alleging that our mobile applications infringe upon their patents. These lawsuits and any other intellectual property claims brought by or against us, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could significantly divert management resources and attention. If we are unable to resolve those claims in our favor, we may be required to pay damages, to stop using any infringing technology, to seek a license for that technology, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which may require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop alternative technology for any infringing aspects of our business on attractive terms, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings. Any of these results could harm our business. We intend to evaluate acquisitions or investments in complementary technologies and businesses, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits from, and may have to pay substantial costs related to, any acquisitions, mergers, joint ventures or investments that we undertake. As part of our business strategy, we plan to evaluate acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary technologies and businesses, including acquisitions of our own stock. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future or to make these acquisitions on a commercially reasonable basis. If we complete an acquisition, merger, joint venture or investment, we may not realize the benefits we expect to derive from the transaction. Any future acquisitions and investments would have several risks, including: •Our inability to successfully integrate acquired business cultures, personnel, systems, technologies or operations; •Problems integrating and maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls, policies, books and records, including problems relating to the adequacy of internal controls and to reporting; •Diversion of management’s attention; •Loss of key employees of acquired businesses; •Disruption of existing operations; •Risks associated with operating a business or in a market in which we have little or no prior experience; •Our inability to recover the costs of acquisition, merger, joint venture or investment; •Accounting risks, including risks associated with accounting for acquisitions, potential amortization of intangible assets, and potential write-off of acquired assets; •Potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities; •Our inability to increase earnings per share; and •Assumption of liabilities, including unknown and unforeseen liabilities. OTHER RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The trading price of our stock has been, and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely. For example, our closing stock price on The NASDAQ Stock Market for the 52 weeks ended March 1, 2012 ranged from a low of $1.02 to a high of $3.12. Many factors can cause stock price fluctuation, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, the risks identified above, as well as the following factors: 19 •Indicia of our financial performance, such as variations in our quarterly results of operations, changes in our financial guidance for future periods, inability to meet quarterly or yearly performance estimates or targets, and changes in performance estimates or recommendations, or termination of coverage, by securities analysts; •Announcements by us, our competitors or lead source providers, including announcements about strategic alliances; •The relatively low level of public float and average daily trading volumes of our common stock; •The sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including by investors who still own a significant number of our shares issued before our public offering, or from the perception that these sales could occur; •Any repurchase by us of our outstanding stock; •Our adoption of any stockholder rights plan; and •Broad market and industry factors that are independent of our actual operating performance. In addition, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and could harm the price of our common stock. Although we carry general liability and errors and omissions insurance, our insurance may not cover claims of these types or may be inadequate to protect us from all liability that we may incur. Our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of our stock, and as a result, the trading price for our shares may be depressed and these stockholders can take actions that may be adverse to your interests. Our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock, totaling about one-quarter as of March 1, 2012. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. These stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders who are executive officers or directors, or who have representatives on our Board of Directors, could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to our other stockholders. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. Among other things, these provisions: •Establish a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; •Do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors; •Authorize the board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of common stock, including pursuant to a stockholder rights plan; •Prohibit stockholder action by written consent; •Limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and •Require advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. In addition, the provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporate Law govern us. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None. 