Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, which we believe are the most significant risks related to our business, as well as the other information contained in this document. Risks Related to Our Operations The continued economic slowdown in the United States and the national and world-wide financial crisis may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Among other things, these negative economic trends could adversely affect demand for television advertising, reduce the availability, and increase the cost, of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, and adversely affect our ability to meet long-term commitments. In addition, general trends in the television industry could adversely affect demand for television advertising as consumers turn to alternative media, including the Internet, for entertainment. The continued economic slowdown in the United States is likely to adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows by, among other things, reducing demand for local and national television advertising and making it more difficult for customers to pay their accounts. Moreover, television viewing among consumers has been negatively impacted by the increasing availability of alternative media, including the Internet. As a result, in recent years demand for television advertising has been declining and demand for advertising in alternative media has been increasing, and we expect this trend to continue. Our ability to access funds under the Nexstar Senior Credit Facility (“Nexstar Facility”) depends, in part, on our compliance with certain financial covenants in the Nexstar Facility, including covenants based on EBITDA as defined in the Nexstar Facility. If our EBITDA is not sufficient to ensure compliance with these covenants, we might not be able to draw down funds under our revolving credit facility or it might be considered an event of default under the Nexstar Facility. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced during 2009 and may continue in 2010, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facilities. Our access to funds under the revolving credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and other discretionary uses of cash. We and Mission have a history of net losses. We and Mission had aggregate net losses of $12.6 million, $78.1 million and $19.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We and Mission may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Our substantial debt could limit our ability to grow and compete. As of December 31, 2009, we and Mission had $670.4 million of debt, which represented 135.7% of our and Mission’s total combined capitalization. The companies’ high level of debt could have important consequences to our business. For example, it could: • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or obtain additional financing in the future; • limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities; • expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under the senior credit facilities is variable; • limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business and our industry; and • impair our ability to withstand a general downturn in our business and place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Obligations” for disclosure of the approximate aggregate amount of principal indebtedness scheduled to mature. We and Mission could also incur additional debt in the future. The terms of our and Mission’s senior credit facilities, as well as the indentures governing our publicly-held notes, limit, but do not prohibit us or Mission from incurring substantial amounts of additional debt. To the extent we or Mission incur additional debt we would become even more susceptible to the leverage-related risks described above. 12 The agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that limit our management’s discretion in the operation of our business. Our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our publicly-held notes contain various covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • pay dividends and make other distributions; • make investments and other restricted payments; • make acquisitions; • merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • create liens; • sell assets or stock of our subsidiaries; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, our senior credit facility requires us to maintain or meet certain financial ratios, including consolidated leverage ratios and interest coverage ratios. Future financing agreements may contain similar, or even more restrictive, provisions and covenants. As a result of these restrictions and covenants, our management’s ability to operate our business at its discretion is limited, and we may be unable to compete effectively, pursue acquisitions or take advantage of new business opportunities, any of which could harm our business. Mission’s senior credit facility contains similar terms and restrictions. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in present or future financing agreements, a default may occur. A default could allow creditors to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. A default could also allow creditors to foreclose on any collateral securing such debt. Our senior credit facility agreement contains covenants which require us to comply with certain financial ratios, including: (a) maximum total and senior leverage ratios, (b) a minimum interest coverage ratio, and (c) a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The covenants, which are calculated on a quarterly basis, include the combined results of Nexstar Broadcasting and Mission. Mission’s senior credit facility agreement does not contain financial covenant ratio requirements; however it does include an event of default if Nexstar does not comply with all covenants contained in its credit agreement. The senior subordinated notes and senior discount notes contain restrictive covenants customary for borrowing arrangements of this type. As of September 30, 2009, we were in compliance with all indentures governing the publicly-held notes. As of September 30, 2009, we were not in compliance with all covenants contained in the credit agreements governing our senior credit facility. On October 8, 2009, we amended our credit facility to modify certain covenants. See Note 11 of our consolidated financial statements in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more complete discussion of the credit facility amendment. The October 8, 2009 amendment contained a limited waiver for the leverage ratios which cured the violation as of September 30, 2009 contained in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all covenants contained in the credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the publicly-held notes. On March 30, 2009, we closed an offer to exchange $143,600,000 of the 7% senior subordinated notes due 2014 in exchange for $142,320,761 7% senior subordinated PIK Notes due 2014 (the “PIK Notes”). Based on the financial covenants in the senior credit facility, the PIK Notes are not included in the debt amount used to calculate the total leverage ratio until January 2011. 13 The industry-wide mandatory conversion to digital television could have an adverse impact on our business, as certain viewers that do not upgrade their technology to be able to receive digital signals could no longer be able to view our programming. Television stations in the U.S. transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts and had to phase-out analog broadcasting altogether by June 12, 2009. All of our and Mission’s stations are broadcasting with digital only signals. TV viewers who receive their signals over-the-air (instead of through multichannel video program distributors, which we refer to as MVPDs, such as cable, satellite, or fiber optic service) and who have older, analog-only television receivers, had to obtain digital-to-analog converters (or new digital televisions) and perhaps new antennas in order to continue watching television after June 12, 2009. The federal government established a program to provide eligible TV viewers with coupons to cover the expense of purchasing digital-to-analog converters (but not new antennas). However, due to technological differences in the way digital as compared to analog TV signals are received, it is possible that some viewers who received adequate analog signals over-the-air are not able to receive usable digital signals (even with digital-to-analog converters and new antennas) and, therefore, are not able to watch some or all of the stations they have been watching (unless they subscribe to an MVPD service). Mission may make decisions regarding the operation of its stations that could reduce the amount of cash we receive under our local service agreements. Mission is 100% owned by an independent third party. Mission owns and operates 16 television stations as of December 31, 2009. We have entered into local service agreements with Mission, pursuant to which we provide services to Mission’s stations. In return for the services we provide, we receive substantially all of the available cash, after payment of debt service costs, generated by Mission’s stations. We also guarantee all of the obligations incurred under Mission’s senior credit facility, which were incurred primarily in connection with Mission’s acquisition of its stations. The sole shareholder of Mission has granted to us a purchase option to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of each Mission station, subject to FCC consent, for consideration equal to the greater of (1) seven times the station’s cash flow, as defined in the option agreement, less the amount of its indebtedness as defined in the option agreement or (2) the amount of its indebtedness. We do not own Mission or Mission’s television stations. However, as a result of our guarantee of the obligations incurred under Mission’s senior credit facility, our arrangements under the local service agreements and purchase option agreements with Mission, we are deemed under U.S. GAAP to have a controlling financial interest in Mission while complying with the FCC’s rules regarding ownership limits in television markets. In order for both us and Mission to comply with FCC regulations, Mission maintains complete responsibility for and control over the programming, finances, personnel and operations of its stations. As a result, Mission’s sole shareholder and officers can make decisions with which we disagree and which could reduce the cash flow generated by these stations and, as a consequence, the amounts we receive under our local service agreements with Mission. For instance, we may disagree with Mission’s programming decisions, which programming may prove unpopular and/or may generate less advertising revenue. Furthermore, subject to Mission’s agreement with its lenders, Mission’s sole shareholder could choose to pay himself a dividend. The revenue generated by stations we operate or provide services to could decline substantially if they fail to maintain or renew their network affiliation agreements on favorable terms, or at all. Due to the quality of the programming provided by the networks, stations that are affiliated with a network generally have higher ratings than unaffiliated independent stations in the same market. As a result, it is important for stations to maintain their network affiliations. All of the stations that we operate or provide services to have network affiliation agreements––12 stations have primary affiliation agreements with NBC, 11 with CBS, 9 with ABC, 15 with Fox, 6 with MyNetworkTV, 4 with The CW, 1 with This TV and 1 with Azteca America. Additionally, three of the stations have secondary affiliation agreements – one with MyNetworkTV, one with RTN and one with Telemundo. Each of NBC, CBS, ABC, RTN, Telemundo, Azteca America and This TV generally provides affiliated stations with up to 22 hours of prime time programming per week, while each of Fox, MyNetworkTV and The CW provides affiliated stations with up to 15 hours of prime time programming per week. In return, affiliated stations broadcast the respective network’s commercials during the network programming. Under the affiliation agreements with NBC, CBS and ABC, some of the stations we operate or provide services to also receive compensation from these networks. All of the network affiliation agreements of the stations that we own, operate, program or provide sales and other services to are scheduled to expire at various times beginning in May 2010 through August 2017. Network affiliation agreements are also subject to earlier termination by the networks under limited circumstances. For more information regarding these network affiliation agreements, see “Business—Network Affiliations.” 14 The loss of or material reduction in retransmission consent revenues could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Nexstar’s retransmission consent agreements with cable operators, direct broadcast satellite operators, and others permit the operators to carry our stations’ signals in exchange for the payment of compensation to us from the system operators as consideration. The television networks have recently asserted to their local television station affiliates the networks’ position that they, as the owners or licensees of programming we broadcast and provide for retransmission, are entitled to a portion of the compensation under the retransmission consent agreements. Networks have proposed to include these provisions in their network affiliation agreements. Inclusion of these or similar provisions in our network affiliation agreements could materially reduce this revenue source to Nexstar and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The FCC could decide not to grant renewal of the FCC license of any of the stations we operate or provide services to which would require that station to cease operations. Television broadcast licenses are granted for a maximum term of eight years and are subject to renewal upon application to the FCC. The FCC is required to grant an application for license renewal if, during the preceding term, the station served the public interest, the licensee did not commit any serious violations of the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules, and the licensee committed no other violations of the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules which, taken together, would constitute a pattern of abuse. A majority of renewal applications are routinely granted under this standard. If a licensee fails to meet this standard the FCC may still grant renewal on terms and conditions that it deems appropriate, including a monetary forfeiture or renewal for a term less than the normal eight-year period. On October 26, 2005, the Director of the Central Illinois Chapter of the Parents Television Council (“PTC”) submitted an informal objection to the application for renewal of license for Nexstar’s station WCIA in Champaign, Illinois, requesting the FCC withhold action on WCIA’s license renewal application until the FCC acts on the PTC’s complaint regarding an allegedly indecent broadcast on WCIA. On January 3, 2006, Cable America Corporation submitted a petition to deny the applications for renewal of license for Nexstar’s station KSFX and Mission’s station KOLR, both licensed to Springfield, Missouri. Cable America alleged that Nexstar’s local service agreements with Mission give Nexstar improper control over Mission’s operations. Nexstar and Mission submitted a joint opposition to this petition to deny and Cable America submitted a reply. Cable America subsequently requested that the FCC dismiss its petition. However, the petition remains pending with the FCC. Nexstar and Mission began to submit renewal of license applications for their stations beginning in June 2004. We and Mission expect the FCC to renew the licenses for our stations in due course but cannot provide any assurances that the FCC will do so. The loss of the services of our chief executive officer could disrupt management of our business and impair the execution of our business strategies. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to retain the services of Perry A. Sook, our founder and President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Sook has been instrumental in determining our strategic direction and focus. The loss of Mr. Sook’s services could adversely affect our ability to manage effectively our overall operations and successfully execute current or future business strategies. Our growth may be limited if we are unable to implement our acquisition strategy. We intend to continue our growth by selectively pursuing acquisitions of television stations. The television broadcast industry is undergoing consolidation, which may reduce the number of acquisition targets and increase the purchase price of future acquisitions. Some of our competitors may have greater financial or management resources with which to pursue acquisition targets. Therefore, even if we are successful in identifying attractive acquisition targets, we may face considerable competition and our acquisition strategy may not be successful. On October 8, 2009, we amended our credit facility and the amendment also specifically restricts our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy. FCC rules and policies may also make it more difficult for us to acquire additional television stations. Television station acquisitions are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions if, for example, the FCC or other government agencies believe that a proposed transaction would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations. 15 Growing our business through acquisitions involves risks and if we are unable to manage effectively our growth, our operating results will suffer. Since January 1, 2003, we have more than doubled the number of stations that we own, operate, program or provide sales and other services to, having acquired 20 stations and contracted to provide service to 17 additional stations. We will continue to actively pursue additional acquisition opportunities. To manage effectively our growth and address the increased reporting requirements and administrative demands that will result from future acquisitions, we will need, among other things, to continue to develop our financial and management controls and management information systems. We will also need to continue to identify, attract and retain highly skilled finance and management personnel. Failure to do any of these tasks in an efficient and timely manner could seriously harm our business. There are other risks associated with growing our business through acquisitions. For example, with any past or future acquisition, there is the possibility that: • we may not be able to successfully reduce costs, increase advertising revenue or audience share or realize anticipated synergies and economies of scale with respect to any acquired station; • an acquisition may increase our leverage and debt service requirements or may result in our assuming unexpected liabilities; • our management may be reassigned from overseeing existing operations by the need to integrate the acquired business; • we may experience difficulties integrating operations and systems, as well as company policies and cultures; • we may fail to retain and assimilate employees of the acquired business; and • problems may arise in entering new markets in which we have little or no experience. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisition. FCC actions may restrict our ability to create duopolies under local service agreements, which would harm our existing operations and impair our acquisition strategy. In some of our markets, we have created duopolies by entering into what we refer to as local service agreements. While these agreements take varying forms, a typical local service agreement is an agreement between two separately owned television stations serving the same market, whereby the owner of one station provides operational assistance to the other station, subject to ultimate editorial and other controls being exercised by the latter station’s owner. By operating or entering into local service agreements with more than one station in a market, we (and the other station) achieve significant operational efficiencies. We also broaden our audience reach and enhance our ability to capture more advertising spending in a given market. While all of our existing local service agreements comply with FCC rules and policies, the FCC may not continue to permit local service agreements as a means of creating duopoly-type opportunities. On August 2, 2004, the FCC initiated a rule making proceeding to determine whether to make TV joint sales agreements attributable under its ownership rules. Comments and reply comments were filed in this proceeding in the fourth quarter of 2004. The FCC has not yet issued a decision in this proceeding. However, if the FCC adopts a joint sales agreement attribution rule for television stations we will be required to comply with the rule. The FCC may decide to terminate “grandfathered” time brokerage agreements. The FCC attributes time brokerage agreements and local marketing agreements (“TBAs”) to the programmer under its ownership limits if the programmer provides more than 15% of a station’s weekly broadcast programming. However, TBAs entered into prior to November 5, 1996 are exempt attributable interests for now. The FCC will review these “grandfathered” TBAs in the future. During this review, the FCC may determine to terminate the “grandfathered” period and make all TBAs fully attributable to the programmer. If the FCC does so, we and Mission will be required to terminate the TBAs for stations WFXP and KHMT unless the FCC simultaneously changes its duopoly rules to allow ownership of two stations in the applicable markets. 16 The FCC may fail to grant a construction permit for KMID’s digital facilities. On December 8, 2008, Nexstar submitted an application to modify KMID’s construction permit to specify a new broadcast tower for KMID’s digital operations. The FCC requested further information regarding this application, which Nexstar submitted on September 8, 2009. The FCC has not yet granted KMID’s digital authorization; however, the FCC has granted KMID a special temporary authorization for the continued operation of KMID’s digital facilities during the pendency of its review. We believe the FCC will likely grant KMID’s digital authorization in the normal course. However, if the FCC ultimately denies KMID’s amended application, Nexstar will be required to cease operating KMID’s digital facilities. The level of foreign investments held by our principal stockholder, ABRY Partners, LLC and its affiliated funds (“ABRY”), may limit additional foreign investments made in us. The Communications Act limits the extent of non-U.S. ownership of companies that own U.S. broadcast stations. Under this restriction, a U.S. broadcast company such as ours may have no more than 25% non-U.S. ownership (by vote and by equity). Because our majority shareholder, ABRY has a substantial level of foreign investment, the amount of additional foreign investment that may be made in us is limited to approximately 12% of our total outstanding equity. The interest of our principal stockholder, ABRY, in other media may limit our ability to acquire television stations in particular markets, restricting our ability to execute our acquisition strategy. The number of television stations we may acquire in any market is limited by FCC rules and may vary depending upon whether the interests in other television stations or other media properties of persons affiliated with us are attributable under FCC rules. The broadcast or other media interest of our officers, directors and stockholders with 5% or greater voting power are generally attributable under the FCC’s rules, which may limit us from acquiring or owning television stations in particular markets while those officers, directors or stockholders are associated with us. In addition, the holder of otherwise non-attributable equity and/or debt in a licensee in excess of 33% of the total debt and equity of the licensee will be attributable where the holder is either a major program supplier to that licensee or the holder has an attributable interest in another broadcast station, cable system or daily newspaper in the same market. ABRY, our principal stockholder, is one of the largest private firms specializing in media and broadcasting investments. As a result of ABRY’s interest in us, we could be prevented from acquiring broadcast companies in markets where ABRY has an attributable interest in television stations or other media, which could impair our ability to execute our acquisition strategy. Our certificate of incorporation allows ABRY and its affiliates to identify, pursue and consummate additional acquisitions of television stations or other broadcast-related businesses that may be complementary to our business and therefore such acquisitions opportunities may not be available to us. We are controlled by one principal stockholder, ABRY, and its interests may differ from your interests. As a result of ABRY’s controlling interest in us, ABRY is able to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs. ABRY is able to unilaterally determine the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, five of our directors are or were affiliated with ABRY. ABRY’s interests may differ from the interests of other security holders and ABRY could take actions or make decisions that are not in the best interests of our security holders. Furthermore, this concentration of ownership by ABRY may have the effect of impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our shares. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, debt instruments and Delaware law contain anti-takeover protections that may discourage or prevent a takeover of us, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could delay or make it more difficult to remove incumbent directors or for a third party to acquire us, even if a takeover would benefit our stockholders. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock by our board of directors without a stockholder vote; • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and • set forth specific advance notice procedures for matters to be raised at stockholder meetings. The Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits us from engaging in “business combinations” with “interested shareholders” (with some exceptions) unless such transaction is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of this provision could have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. 17 In addition, a change in control would be an event of default under our senior credit facility and trigger the rights of holders of our publicly-traded notes to cause us to repurchase such notes. These events would add to the cost of an acquisition, which could deter a third party from acquiring us. We and Mission have a material amount of goodwill and intangible assets, and therefore we and Mission could suffer losses due to future asset impairment charges. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $362.8 million, or 58.5%, of our and Mission’s combined total assets consisted of goodwill and intangible assets, including FCC licenses and network affiliation agreements. We recorded an impairment charge of $16.2 million during the third quarter of 2009 that included an impairment to the carrying values of FCC licenses of $8.8 million, related to 19 of our stations and an impairment to the carrying values of goodwill of $7.4 million, related to four reporting units consisting of five of our television stations. We recorded an impairment charge of $82.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2008 that included an impairment to the carrying value of FCC licenses of $41.4 million, related to 20 of our television stations; an impairment to the carrying value of network affiliation agreements of $2.1 million related to 3 of our television stations; and an impairment to the carrying values of goodwill of $38.9 million, related to 10 reporting units consisting of 11 of our television stations. We and Mission test goodwill and FCC licenses annually, and on an interim date if factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test of these assets, in accordance with accounting and disclosure requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets. We and Mission test network affiliation agreements whenever circumstances or indicators become apparent the asset may not be recoverable through expected future cash flows. The methods used to evaluate the impairment of Nexstar’s and Mission’s goodwill and intangible assets would be affected by a significant reduction in operating results or cash flows at one or more of Nexstar’s and Mission’s television stations, or a forecast of such reductions, a significant adverse change in the advertising marketplaces in which Nexstar’s and Mission’s television stations operate, the loss of network affiliations, or by adverse changes to FCC ownership rules, among others, which may be beyond our or Mission’s control. If the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets is revised downward due to impairment, such non-cash charge could materially affect Nexstar’s and Mission’s financial position and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Nexstar’s operating results are dependent on advertising revenue and as a result, Nexstar may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and other factors beyond Nexstar’s control than businesses not dependent on advertising. Nexstar derives revenue primarily from the sale of advertising time. Nexstar’s ability to sell advertising time depends on numerous factors that may be beyond Nexstar’s control, including: • the health of the economy in the local markets where our stations are located and in the nation as a whole; • the popularity of our programming; • fluctuations in pricing for local and national advertising; • the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based media, particularly newspapers, cable television, Internet and radio; • the decreased demand for political advertising in non-election years; and • changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located. Because businesses generally reduce their advertising budgets during economic recessions or downturns, the reliance upon advertising revenue makes Nexstar’s operating results particularly susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. Our programming may not attract sufficient targeted viewership, and we may not achieve favorable ratings. Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our programming not to gain popularity or to decline in popularity, which could cause our advertising revenue to decline. In addition, we and the programming providers upon which we rely may not be able to anticipate, and effectively react to, shifts in viewer tastes and interests in our markets. Because a high percentage of our operating expenses are fixed, a relatively small decrease in advertising revenue could have a significant negative impact on our financial results. Our business is characterized generally by high fixed costs, primarily for debt service, broadcast rights and personnel. Other than commissions paid to our sales staff and outside sales agencies, our expenses do not vary significantly with the increase or decrease in advertising revenue. As a result, a relatively small change in advertising prices could have a disproportionate effect on our financial results. Accordingly, a minor shortfall in expected revenue could have a significant negative impact on our financial results. 18 Preemption of regularly scheduled programming by network news coverage may affect our revenue and results of operations. Nexstar may experience a loss of advertising revenue and incur additional broadcasting expenses due to preemption of our regularly scheduled programming by network coverage of a major global news event such as a war or terrorist attack. As a result, advertising may not be aired and the revenue for such advertising may be lost unless the station is able to run the advertising at agreed-upon times in the future. Advertisers may not agree to run such advertising in future time periods, and space may not be available for such advertising. The duration of such preemption of local programming cannot be predicted if it occurs. In addition, our stations and the stations we provide services to may incur additional expenses as a result of expanded news coverage of a war or terrorist attack. The loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our results of operations. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry trends, our television businesses may not be able to compete effectively. New technologies could also adversely affect our television stations. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view, the Internet, telephone company services, mobile devices, digital video recorders and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized television viewing audiences and expanded the numbers and types of distribution channels for advertisers to access. Over the past decade, cable television programming services, other emerging video distribution platforms and the Internet have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable and satellite television, the Internet and other technological changes have increased, and may continue to increase, the competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs, may increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire or develop desired programming. In addition, video compression techniques, now in use with direct broadcast satellites, cable and wireless cable, are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques as well as other technological developments are applicable to all video delivery systems, including over-the-air broadcasting, and have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming, resulting in more audience fractionalization. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect that these and other technological changes will have on the television industry or on the future results of our television businesses. If direct broadcast satellite companies do not carry the stations that we own and operate or provide services to, we could lose audience share and revenue. Direct broadcast satellite television companies are permitted to transmit local broadcast television signals to subscribers in local markets provided that they offer to carry all local stations in that market. However, satellite providers have limited satellite capacity to deliver local station signals in local markets. Satellite providers, such as DirecTV and Dish Network, carry our and Mission’s stations in only some of our markets and may choose not to carry local stations in any of our other markets. DirecTV currently provides satellite carriage of our and Mission’s stations in the Champaign-Springfield-Decatur, Evansville, Ft. Smith-Fayetteville-Springdale-Rogers, Ft. Wayne, Jacksonville, Johnstown-Altoona, Little Rock-Pine Bluff, Peoria-Bloomington, Rochester, Rockford, Shreveport, Springfield and Wilkes Barre-Scranton markets. Dish Network currently provides satellite carriage of our and Mission’s stations in the Abilene-Sweetwater, Amarillo, Beaumont-Port Arthur, Billings, Champaign-Springfield-Decatur, Dothan, Erie, Evansville, Fort Wayne, Ft. Smith-Fayetteville-Springdale-Rogers, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Johnstown-Altoona, Joplin, MO-Pittsburg, KS, Little Rock-Pine Bluff, Lubbock, Monroe, LA-El Dorado, AR, Odessa-Midland, Peoria-Bloomington, Rochester, Rockford, San Angelo, Shreveport, Springfield, Terre Haute, Wichita Falls, TX-Lawton, OK and Wilkes Barre-Scranton markets. In those markets in which the satellite providers do not carry local station signals, subscribers to those satellite services are unable to view local stations without making further arrangements, such as installing antennas and switches. Furthermore, when direct broadcast satellite companies do carry local television stations in a market, they are permitted to charge subscribers extra for such service. Some subscribers may choose not to pay extra to receive local television stations. In the event subscribers to satellite services do not receive the stations that we own and operate or provide services to, we could lose audience share which would adversely affect our revenue and earnings. 19 The FCC can sanction us for programming broadcast on our stations which it finds to be indecent. In 2004, the FCC began to impose substantial fines on television broadcasters for the broadcast of indecent material in violation of the Communications Act and its rules. The FCC also revised its indecency review analysis to more strictly prohibit the use of certain language on broadcast television. Because our and Mission’s stations’ programming is in large part comprised of programming provided by the networks with which the stations are affiliated, we and Mission do not have full control over what is broadcast on our stations, and we and Mission may be subject to the imposition of fines if the FCC finds such programming to be indecent. Fines may be imposed on a television broadcaster for an indecency violation to a maximum of $325 thousand per violation. Intense competition in the television industry could limit our growth and impair our ability to become profitable. As a television broadcasting company, we face a significant level of competition, both directly and indirectly. Generally we compete for our audience against all the other leisure activities in which one could choose to engage rather than watch television. Specifically, stations we own or provide services to compete for audience share, programming and advertising revenue with other television stations in their respective markets and with other advertising media, including newspapers, radio stations, cable television, DBS systems and the Internet. The entertainment and television industries are highly competitive and are undergoing a period of consolidation. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do. The markets in which we operate are also in a constant state of change arising from, among other things, technological improvements and economic and regulatory developments. Technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of television entertainment, such as cable television, wireless cable, satellite-to-home distribution services, pay-per-view and home video and entertainment systems, have fractionalized television viewing audiences and have subjected free over-the-air television broadcast stations to increased competition. We may not be able to compete effectively or adjust our business plans to meet changing market conditions. We are unable to predict what form of competition will develop in the future, the extent of the competition or its possible effects on our businesses. The FCC could implement legislation and/or regulations that might have a significant impact on the operations of the stations we own and the stations we provide services to or the television broadcasting industry as a whole. The FCC has initiated proceedings to determine whether to make TV joint sales agreements attributable interests under its ownership rules; to determine whether it should establish formal rules under which broadcasters will be required to serve the local public interest; and to determine whether to modify or eliminate certain of its broadcast ownership rules, including the radio-television cross-ownership rule and the newspaper-television cross-ownership rule. A change to any of these rules may have significant impact on us and the stations we provide services to. In addition, the FCC may decide to initiate other new rule making proceedings on its own or in response to requests from outside parties, any of which might have such an impact. Congress also may act to amend the Communications Act in a manner that could impact our stations and the stations we provide services to or the television broadcast industry in general. The FCC may reallocate some portion of the spectrum available for use by television broadcasters to wireless broadband use which alteration could substantially impact our future operations and may reduce viewer access to our programming. The FCC has initiated a proceeding to assess the availability of spectrum to meet future wireless broadband needs pursuant to which the FCC is examining whether some portion of the spectrum currently used for commercial broadcast television can be made available for wireless broadband use. The FCC has proposed requiring television stations to co-locate their antennas and/or reducing the amount of spectrum allocated to each television station from 6 megahertz to 3 megahertz. If the FCC determines to move forward with reducing the spectrum available to television broadcasters for their use, it may render our investment in digital facilities worthless and consequently reduce the useful lives of certain digital equipment, could require substantial additional investment to continue our operations, and may require viewers to invest in additional equipment or subscription services to continue receiving broadcast television signals. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 20 