Item 1A. Risk Factors: RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY We have experienced losses in recent quarters and expect to incur losses in the future. We have had a history of losses from inception in January 1999 through the first half of 2003 and at December 31, 2008 had an accumulated deficit of $80.5 million. While we were profitable in the second half of 2003, and for a total of seven quarters from 2004 through and 2006, we experienced quarterly net losses during 2007 and 2008. Our outlook continues to be cautious given market and macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties, including the current distress in the residential real estate market. We may incur additional expenses with the expectation that our revenues will grow in the future, which may not occur. As a result, we could experience budgeting and cash flow management problems, unexpected fluctuations in our results of operations and other difficulties, any of which could harm our ability to achieve or maintain profitability, increase the volatility of the market price of our common stock or harm our ability to raise additional capital. We expect that our expenses will continue to increase, including marketing and customer acquisition expenses and expenses incurred as a result of increasing the number of agents we employ. As we seek to grow our business in existing markets and expand to new markets, we cannot guarantee our business strategies will be successful or that our revenues will ever increase sufficiently to achieve and maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 17 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed by changes in the real estate markets and economic events, such as unemployment, that are out of our control and may be difficult to predict. The success of our business depends in part on the health of the residential real estate market, which traditionally has been subject to cyclical economic swings as well as other changes in local, regional or national economic conditions. The purchase of residential real estate is a significant transaction for most consumers, and one which can not only be delayed or terminated based on the availability of discretionary income, but also can be delayed or terminated based on macroeconomic factors. Economic slowdown or recession, changes in the availability of mortgages or extension of credit, rising interest rates, inflation, disruptions in capital markets, declines in the stock market, adverse tax policies or changes in other regulations, increased unemployment, lower consumer confidence, lower wage and salary levels, war or terrorist attacks, natural disaster, or oil price spikes, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could adversely affect the demand for residential real estate and harm our business. In addition, the actions of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money in the United States, often have a significant impact on interest rates, which can impact the mortgage and housing markets in ways that are beyond our control. During the second half of 2008 the United States was in the midst of a recession, and there are a variety of opinions about how deep and long that recession may be. While our business likely would be affected by any slow down in the economy, it almost certainly would be significantly affected if the United States economy suffers a prolonged and significant recession. Reports indicate a significant decrease in consumer confidence and an increase in unemployment rates nationally. For example, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics seasonally adjusted national unemployment rates have risen from 4.9% in December 2007 to 7.2% in December 2008. Both of these factors tend to dampen demand for housing and negatively impact our business through a decrease in transaction volume and sales prices. Our business could suffer if consumers are not able to obtain mortgage financing on acceptable terms. Consumer access to mortgage financing is a major factor in the health of the residential real estate brokerage industry. The affordability and availability of mortgage financing is influenced by a number of factors, including interest rates, lender underwriting criteria, loan product availability, and the liquidity of mortgage backed securities in the secondary market. If potential homebuyers face an increase in interest rates, housing may become less affordable, since at a given income level people cannot qualify to borrow as much principal, or at a given fixed principal amount they will incur higher monthly payments. As mortgages become more expensive, or if potential home buyers are unable to obtain financing at all, they may postpone, cancel, or prolong their plans to purchase a new home or move up to a higher priced home, which should result in fewer closed transactions, a lengthening of the closing process, a reduced demand for homes, and a decline in home prices, any of which may reduce our revenues and increase our costs. In addition, if adjustable rate mortgages reset at rates higher than homebuyers can or will pay, the number of distressed properties entering the residential real estate market should increase, further harming the health of the residential real estate market and, consequently, our results. The recent tightening in the availability of credit, particularly with respect to mortgage lenders, has and may continue to negatively impact the housing market and, in turn, our financial results. Currently, we perceive credit standards, including mortgage lending standards, to be tighter than in recent years. We believe this tightness was caused by a multi-year decline in real estate values beginning in late 2005, followed by unexpectedly high mortgage defaults and related losses by lenders and investors on mortgages and mortgage-backed securities. We believe these losses contributed to a crisis in the financial markets and a related banking shock in the second half of 2008. We perceive that lenders and investors, who buy loans and securities backed by mortgages, are tightening credit standards and/or exiting the market for loans that aren’t guaranteed by the Federal National Mortgage Association (or Fannie Mae) or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (or Freddie Mac) the two largest corporations that purchase closed loans from mortgage lenders. Consequently, more lenders currently require homebuyers to have higher credit scores and to provide greater down payments than in recent years. Meeting these requirements has been more difficult as stock prices have plummeted, decreasing the 18 Table of Contents values of homebuyers’ retirement accounts and investments. We have also perceived an increase in lenders’ requests that homebuyers obtain mortgage insurance, particularly as second mortgages and home equity loans become harder to obtain. Further, an entire group of loan products, including subprime and some Alt A loans, have become less available and, in some markets, almost nonexistent. Following suit are prime, non-conforming loans, principally loans of more than $729,750 through December 31, 2009, making them significantly more costly than in previous years relative to conforming loans (meaning loans with sizes that do not exceed the maximum amounts that may be purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac). Although Congress has enacted legislation to improve this availability, there can be no assurance that such improvement will happen. Any continued tightness in the availability of credit to homebuyers may negatively affect home sales prices and the number of home purchases, either of which may reduce our profitability. If the financial health of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac cannot be stabilized, the availability of mortgages should decrease, which most likely would negatively impact the housing market and our financial results. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, who together guarantee or own approximately half of the total home mortgages in the United States, have played critical roles in the national housing market by supplying significant liquidity in the market for mortgage lending and buying. In the second half of 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac experienced significant losses due, at least in part, to the macroeconomic conditions described above, followed by a precipitous drop in their stock prices as investors lost confidence in the future health and viability of those entities. As discussed in more detail in Item 7 of this report under “Federal efforts to bolster the residential real estate market,” the federal government has taken a number of steps to stabilize these institutions, including placing them into conservatorship in September 2008, in part to help stabilize the mortgage market. If either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac ceases, or significantly curtails, its mortgage lending and buying activities, the availability of mortgages to potential homebuyers would most likely be significantly, and negatively, impacted, as would our ability to do business. Foreclosures and short sales may continue to cause significant disruption in our business. Due to the macroeconomic challenges discussed above a significant number of homes sales currently involve distressed properties, that is, homes that are in foreclosure or “short sales,” meaning a sale where the sale price is less than the loans or debt secured by the home listed for sale. Increased foreclosures and short sales depress home prices and can also delay the sales process, as short sales can be complicated to complete. An increase in the volume of distressed properties can also negatively impact real estate appraisals, as the value of homes in the surrounding area is dampened, if not significantly and negatively impacted. This effect can prolong, or even prevent, the closing of home purchases, as real estate appraisers find it challenging to determine market value, or establish a value which is less than a proposed contract purchase price. In addition, as more distressed properties are offered for sale, the resulting increase in inventory of homes for sale could put further downward pressure on home prices. Any of these results would most likely have a negative impact on our operating results. Federal legislation designed to bolster the market for mortgage loans may result in short or long-term fluctuations in the number of residential real estate transactions, which could negatively impact our operating results. Federal legislation enacted in 2008, among other objectives, seeks to bolster the market for home loans by raising the loan amount that qualifies as a “conforming loan” up to a maximum of $729,750 in certain markets. New federal legislation enacted in early 2009 extended this legislation with respect to conforming loans through December 2009. Federal and state authorities may continue to enact legislation to address this issue. There can be no assurance that this legislation will accomplish its desired objectives, or that it will have a positive impact on the residential real estate market. As this legislation is implemented, a variety of factors could cause unintended and possibly negative fluctuations in the number of completed residential real estate transactions, which could significantly and negatively impact our operating results. 19 Table of Contents Federal activities designed to bolster the housing market may fail to achieve its intended objectives or result in unintended consequences, which could harm the residential real estate market and, in turn, our business. In addition to the legislation described above, during 2008 and early 2009, the federal government and related agencies acted repeatedly to address the decline in the residential real estate market and the tightening in the home mortgage industry. For example, in July 2008, the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 was enacted, which contains several provisions aimed at bolstering the real estate market and of improving the health of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These institutions were placed into conservatorship in September 2008. In early October 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, authorized the Treasury Secretary (or Treasury) to establish the Troubled Assets Relief Program (or TARP) to, among other things, purchase troubled assets from financial institutions and help stabilize and provide liquidity to the credit markets. In February 2009, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was enacted, which contained additional provisions to stimulate the real estate market including a tax credit for first time homebuyers and an increase to the Federal Housing Administration (or FHA) loan limits and the limits for loans provided through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Also in February 2009, the President introduced a plan to reduce home foreclosures by, among other things, offering incentives to lenders that provide loan modifications to homeowners in danger of foreclosure and granting bankruptcy judges the power to modify loan terms for homeowners in bankruptcy. Additionally the Federal Reserve Board has acted repeatedly throughout 2008 and 2009 to make additional funds available to banks and financial institutions, including by making loans, buying unsecured short-term debt, and buying mortgage-related assets. These federal efforts are discussed in more detail in Item 7 of this report under “Federal efforts to bolster the residential real estate market.” Federal and state authorities may continue to act to address these concerns. It is too early to assess whether these efforts will be successful in achieving their intended objectives of bolstering the housing market, stabilizing banking and financial institutions, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, or easing the tightness in mortgage lending. In addition, there can be no assurance that these efforts will not result in unintended consequences that could, in fact, worsen the current crises in the housing and lending markets. If these efforts are not successful in achieving their objectives, or result in unintended consequences that are detrimental to the housing and credit markets, our results of operations could be materially harmed. If the percentage of our business that is composed of representing home sellers, as opposed to home buyers, increases, we may incur additional costs and achieve lower profit margins, particularly in a softened market. Historically, most of our business has been derived from representing buyers in their home purchases. One of our growth strategies is to increase the portion of our business that is composed of representing sellers in their home listings. The success of this strategy may cause an increase in the percentage of our business that is composed of representing home sellers rather than home buyers. As the portion of our listings business increases, and as listings take longer to sell in a market with higher inventory levels, marketing costs generally increase, and commissions can decrease as buyers demand more last-minute concessions in price before closing, or as lenders cut real estate commissions to make up some of the shortfall in a short sale. If these conditions persist or worsen, we may incur greater listing marketing costs and achieve lower commissions and lower profit margins. We may not be able to continue to grow market share to offset the impact of the current contraction in the residential real estate market. During 2008, growth in our new markets helped offset the overall decline in the real estate sales and average sales prices. Our net transaction revenues in existing markets (markets opened before January 1, 2007) decreased to $95.4 million in 2008 from $99.4 million in 2007. Net transaction revenues for new markets (markets opened after December 31, 2006) increased by $8.3 million resulting in an overall increase in net revenues of $4.3 million. We may not be able to sustain this effort at this same rate if the contraction in the residential real estate market continues. 20 Table of Contents If we fail to recruit, hire and retain qualified agents, we would be less able to service our clients and our business would most likely be impaired. Our business requires us to hire employees who are licensed real estate agents, and our strategy is based on consistently growing our team of ZipAgents. Competition for qualified agents is intense, particularly in the markets in which we compete, and retention is an industry-wide issue. While there are many licensed real estate agents in our markets and throughout the country, historically we have had challenges in recruiting and retaining properly qualified licensed agents due particularly to agent discomfort with using technology and being actively managed by an employer. In addition, our lower per transaction agent commission model may be unattractive to certain higher performing agents. If we are unable to recruit, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified licensed real estate agents, we would be less able to service our clients properly and our business would likely be impaired. Historically, the real estate industry has experienced a high level of agent turnover and, likewise, we have experienced a high degree of agent turnover, most of which occurs in the first few months after commencing employment. This turnover has required us to expend a substantial amount of time and money to replace agents who have left. If this situation continues or worsens, our business would most likely be impaired and could cause us to be less effective at expanding our market share in our existing markets and entering new markets. Also, if the current state of the residential real estate market does not improve materially, we expect to see a reduction in the number of licensed REALTORS® nationwide. The overall decline in the number of real estate agents could make it more difficult for us to employ qualified agents and grow our business. Our business model requires access to real estate listing services provided by third parties that we do not control, and we expect that the demand for our services would be reduced if our ability to display listings on our website, or to communicate to our clients that our website displays MLS listings, is restricted. A key component of our business model is that through our website we offer clients access to, and the ability to search, real estate listings posted on the MLSs in the markets we serve. Most large metropolitan areas in the United States have at least one MLS, though there is no national MLS. The homes in each MLS are listed voluntarily by its members, who are licensed real estate brokers. The information distributed in an MLS allows brokers to cooperate in the identification of buyers for listed properties. If our access to one or more MLS databases, or our ability to offer our clients the ability to access and search listings on one or more MLSs, were restricted or terminated, our service could be adversely affected and our business may be harmed. Because participation in an MLS is voluntary, a broker or group of brokers may decline to post their listings to the existing MLS and instead create a new proprietary real estate listing service. If a broker or group of brokers created a separate real estate listing database, we may be unable to obtain access to that private listing service on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. As a result, the percentage of available real estate listings that our clients would be able to search using our website would be reduced, perhaps significantly, thereby making our services less attractive to potential clients. Additionally, we operate a virtual office website, or VOW, which is a password protected website that allows us to show comprehensive MLS data directly to consumers without their having to get the information from an agent. In late 2002, the National Association of REALTORS®, or NAR, the dominant trade organization in the residential real estate industry, adopted a mandatory policy for NAR-affiliated MLSs regarding the use and display of MLS listings data on VOWs. Under the NAR policy, individual MLSs affiliated with NAR, which includes the vast majority of MLSs in the United States, were required to implement their own individual VOW policies consistent with the NAR policy, but NAR extended the deadline for the implementation of its rules at least three times during an investigation by the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, into NAR’s policy that dictates how brokers can display other brokers’ property listings on their websites. In September 2005, NAR replaced its VOW policy with an Internet Listings Display, or ILD, policy containing some of the same or similar features of its former VOW policy, and the DOJ responded by immediately filing a 21 Table of Contents lawsuit in federal court against NAR challenging the ILD policy. In November 2008, the court approved a final settlement of the dispute. The settlement required implementation of a revised VOW policy that prohibits NAR or any NAR affiliated MLS from developing policies that unfairly target brokers like ZipRealty that operate VOWs and requires that such brokers be subject to the same treatment as “traditional” brokerages, or those brokerages that do not operate VOWs. Specifically, the revised policy requires, among other things, that brokers be permitted to distribute the same listing information on a VOW as “traditional” brokers distribute by hand, fax or email, that brokers may not opt-out from showing listings on VOWs and that MLSs are prohibited from restricting the listing information provided to VOWs. However, the settlement allows homeowners to opt-out of displaying their home listing information on the Internet, including on VOWs like the one we operate. While we believe that this settlement and VOW policy will substantially reduce most efforts by the local boards and MLSs to restrict brokers like ZipRealty from serving customers through a VOW, there is risk that local boards and MLSs may try to adopt or enforce unreasonable conditions on VOWs such as the VOW ZipRealty operates. Prior to the announcement of this settlement, we saw an increase in complaints from local MLSs regarding our use of phrases such as “search MLS listed homes,” “search the MLS” or other phrases including the term “MLS,” and we have received corresponding demands from several MLSs that we refrain from using such phrases on our website and in our marketing materials. We believe that, as a VOW and a member of these MLSs, we have the right to use phrases such as “search MLS listed homes” on our website. We expect that the settlement in the DOJ action described above will lead to a reduction of such complaints. However, any restriction on our ability to use such phrases could impair our ability to communicate that our website displays MLS listings, which could impair our ability to attract customers directly to our website. In addition, from time to time several state or local MLSs may choose to combine into one larger MLS. For example, in the State of California, some real estate professionals have discussed combining all MLSs in the state into one state-wide consolidated MLS. If any consolidated MLS were to adopt restrictions on our display of MLS listings, or on our ability to communicate to our clients that our website displays MLS information, we may lose demand for our services. We may be unable to integrate our technology with each MLS on a cost-effective basis, which may harm our operating results and adversely affect our ability to service clients. Each MLS is operated independently and is run on its own technology platform. Each has adopted its own rules and regulations. As a result, we must constantly modify our technology to successfully interact with each independent MLS in order to maintain access to that MLS’s home listings information. In addition, when a new MLS is created, we must customize our technology to work with that new system. These activities require constant attention and significant resources. While we anticipate that implementation of the VOW policy adopted pursuant to the settlement in the NAR vs. DOJ matter described above will contribute to increase uniformity in rules between the MLSs, there is still a risk that we may be unable to successfully interoperate with the MLSs without significantly increasing our engineering costs, which would increase our operating expenses without a related increase in net revenues and cause our operating results to suffer. We may also be unable to interoperate or work with the MLSs effectively, or at all, which would likely adversely affect the demand for our services. If mortgage-related rules, regulations or practices change, our rebate could become less valuable to our consumers, which could make our business model less competitive. We offer rebates to our buying clients, except as noted in this report. If mortgage-related rules, regulations, or practices change, including those enacted, adopted, or applied by state or Federal agencies, including government-sponsored agencies, or if lenders change their practices based on their interpretation of such rules, regulations or practices, the value of our rebate to our buying clients could be impaired, which, in turn, could materially impair a significant aspect of our current business model’s value proposition. 22 Table of Contents We would likely incur additional expenses or liabilities if our current or former compensation plans, including expense allowance or reimbursement policies, are found to violate federal or state wage and hour laws. Because our ZipAgents are employees and not independent contractors, we are subject to federal and state regulation of our employment practices, including regulations applicable to our compensation plans, including our expense reimbursement policies for our ZipAgents. We rely on federal and state exemptions, where available, from minimum wage and fair labor standards laws for our ZipAgents, who are compensated primarily through commissions and who are reimbursed for certain business expenses. Such exemptions may not continue to be available, or we may not qualify for such exemptions, which could subject us to penalties and damages for non-compliance. For example, in 2007, Nevada approved legislation that preempts the federal “outside sales exemption” from paying minimum wage and overtime pay in that state. Accordingly, we pay ZipAgents in Nevada minimum wage offset against future commissions, and overtime pay subject to prior manager approval. Also, some states, such as California and New York, have laws requiring the reimbursement of employee expenses, regardless of the terms of any employment contract, which caused us to adopt different compensation practices in these states than elsewhere. Our current and former compensation and expense allowance and reimbursement policies are challenged from time to time through litigation and administrative complaints, including the class action lawsuits described in our reports filed previously with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If exemptions from paying minimum wages are not available in states where we desire to expand our operations or if they cease to be available in the states where we currently operate, or if we are required by federal or state laws to pay additional compensation or to reimburse additional expenses, we would likely incur significant expenses, be subject to lawsuits and administrative complaints, and be required to modify our agent compensation structure in some or all states, which could cause us to suffer significant financial harm, and which could cause our compensation practices to be less attractive to agents or more expensive to the Company. Our failure to effectively manage the growth of our ZipAgents and related technology could adversely affect our ability to service our clients and harm operating results. As our operations have expanded, we have experienced rapid growth in our headcount from 2,426 total employees, including 2,180 ZipAgents, at December 31, 2007 to 3,068 total employees, including 2,816 ZipAgents, at December 31, 2008. We expect to continue to increase headcount in the future, particularly the number of ZipAgents. Our rapid growth has demanded, and will continue to demand, substantial resources and attention from our management. We will need to continue to hire additional qualified agents and improve and maintain our related technology to properly manage our growth. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our agent retention, client service and responsiveness could suffer and our costs could increase, which could negatively affect our brand and operating results. For example, we are implementing a new sales compensation software program to help us better manage our compensation programs across our markets. If we are not able to implement that new software without complications, we could experience reduced agent retention or productivity and a resulting loss of revenue. Our failure to effectively manage the growth of our control systems could adversely affect our ability to maintain legal compliance. As we grow, our success will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information and control systems on a timely basis, together with maintaining effective cost controls. We may need to implement new systems and controls to help us better comply with the stringent requirements of being a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require management to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Effective internal control over financial reporting is required by law and is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Effective disclosure controls and procedures are required by law and are necessary for us to file complete, accurate and timely reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our ability to manage the growth of our control systems and maintain legal compliance could be thwarted by many factors, including turnover in management and the lack of adequate 23 Table of Contents staffing with the requisite expertise and training. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud or to file complete, accurate and timely reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 could harm our business, harm our reputation and result in a decline in our stock price. If our systems, procedures or controls are not adequate to support our operations and reliable, accurate and timely financial and other reporting, we may not be able to satisfy successfully regulatory and investor scrutiny, offer our services and implement our business plan. If we fail to comply with real estate brokerage laws and regulations, we may incur significant financial penalties or lose our licenses to operate. Due to the geographic scope of our operations and the nature of the real estate services we perform, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, and regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and implement regulations. For example, we are required to maintain real estate brokerage licenses in each state in which we operate and to designate individual licensed brokers of record. In some states, these licenses are personal to the broker. If we fail to maintain our licenses, lose the services of our designated broker of record or conduct brokerage activities without a license, we may be required to pay fines or return commissions received, our licenses may be suspended or revoked or not renewed or we may be subject to other civil and/or criminal penalties. As we expand into new markets, we will need to obtain and maintain the required brokerage licenses, which may be difficult, and comply with the applicable laws and regulations of these markets, which may be different from those to which we are accustomed, any of which will increase our compliance costs. In addition, as the size and scope of real estate sales transactions increase, both the difficulty and cost of compliance with the numerous state licensing regimes and possible losses resulting from non-compliance will increase. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, the possible loss of real estate brokerage licenses or litigation by government agencies or affected clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, and may limit our ability to expand into new markets. We may have liabilities in connection with real estate brokerage activities. As a licensed real estate brokerage, we and our licensed employees are subject to statutory due diligence, disclosure and standard-of-care obligations. In the ordinary course of business, we and our employees are subject to litigation from parties involved in transactions for alleged violations of these obligations. We self-insure some of this risk and, as we expand our business to include larger deals, we may not be able or otherwise determine not to obtain third party insurance on these larger deals with attractive terms. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our employees who become subject to litigation or other claims arising out of our business activities, including for claims related to the negligence of those employees. An adverse outcome in any such litigation could negatively impact our reputation and harm our business. We may have liabilities if any of our employees violates laws concerning settlement procedures. Our business must comply with the provisions of the federal Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, or RESPA, as well as comparable state statutes where we do business. These statutes, among other things, prohibit payments that real estate brokers, agents and other settlement service providers may receive for referral of business to other settlement service providers in connection with the closing of real estate transactions, as well as restrict other payments that may be received by or paid to settlement service providers for their services. RESPA and similar state laws also require timely disclosure of certain relationships or financial interests that a broker has with providers of real estate settlement services. If we or any of our employees fail to comply with any of these statutes, a resulting enforcement proceeding could subject us to substantial financial penalties and/or suspension or loss of our licenses, be expensive to defend, and materially harm our ability to continue operations. If any of our core services fails to comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations, we may incur significant financial penalties or lose licenses required to provide these services. We are currently exploring or beginning to implement several options for offering services relating to the purchase, sale and ownership of a home, including services related to title insurance, escrow, mortgage, home 24 Table of Contents warranty insurance and property and casualty insurance (including auto insurance), which we refer to as core services. We expect that some of our core services will be offered through affiliates (including wholly owned subsidiaries), while others will be offered through joint ventures or marketing arrangements with independent third parties, such as title companies, banks and insurance companies. For example, we have entered into marketing arrangements with one or more lenders pursuant to which we help market their mortgage services through the mortgage center on our website in exchange for a flat monthly fee established on a periodic basis. Also, we have formed a subsidiary to offer insurance services in certain markets. These core services are subject to regulation at both the federal and state level, including, in certain instances, regulation under the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, or RESPA, state and local licensing laws and regulations (whether applicable to us or third parties with whom we have arrangements) and federal and state advertising laws, fair lending and insurance-related laws and regulations. Some of these laws and regulations, such as RESPA, do not offer definitive requirements for compliance, making it difficult to determine conclusively whether these core services will comply. The laws of the states in which we conduct business often vary considerably regarding the legality of and licensing requirements for conducting certain business practices, including the payment of compensation, in connection with offering mortgage, title insurance and other insurance products, and these states often do not provide definitive guidance concerning when these practices are illegal or require licensure, which can make it difficult to determine whether our practices are in legal compliance. In addition, to the extent that these core services are offered through affiliates or arrangements with independent third parties, we may have little ability to verify that these parties comply with applicable laws and regulations. Also, as these core services are expanded into new markets, they may be subject to additional licensing requirements, and such licenses may be difficult to obtain and maintain. Further, the providers and services will be required to comply with the applicable laws and regulations of these expansion markets, which may be different from the laws and regulations to which they were previously subject, all of which will increase compliance costs. If our practices in offering these core services fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations (including if we fail to maintain any necessary licenses, whether through the loss of individuals or entities licensed to perform these services or otherwise, or if our practices are performed or compensated without required licenses), we and the other parties providing the core services may be required to pay fines or return commissions received and may be subject to other civil or criminal penalties under actions by government agencies or clients, and the licenses needed to provide these core services may be suspended, revoked or denied. Any of these events could also cause disruption in the relationships between us and the other parties involved in offering these core services. Consequently, any failure to comply with application laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, and may limit our ability to expand our core services into new markets. We may have liabilities in connection with our performance of core services. For some of the core services we offer or anticipate offering, such as insurance, we expect the performance of these core services to be subject to significant government regulation, disclosure and standard-of-care obligations. In the ordinary course of business, we and the other parties involved in providing these core services may be subject to litigation from clients and other parties involved in transactions for alleged violations of these obligations. We anticipate that the vehicles providing these core services will self-insure some of this risk. In addition, these vehicles may be required to indemnify their employees who become subject to litigation or other claims arising out of their business activities, including for claims related to the negligence of these employees. An adverse outcome in any such litigation could negatively impact our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents If our arrangements for providing core services become impaired, we may lose sources of revenue that may be difficult to replace and we may be less likely to engage in related transactions with our clients. As mentioned above, we are currently exploring or beginning to implement several options for offering and/or marketing core services, and we expect that some of these services will be offered through affiliates (including wholly owned subsidiaries), while others will be offered through marketing arrangements with independent third parties, such as title, mortgage and insurance companies. If these relationships are terminated or otherwise become impaired, we could lose sources of revenues that we may not be able to readily replace, and our brand name and client relationships could suffer. For example, for several years, we received revenues from our marketing relationship with E-LOAN, Inc., which provided mortgage services through the ZipRealty Mortgage Center on our website and paid us a flat monthly fee (representing less than 3% of our revenues during fiscal year 2007). Our marketing relationship with E-LOAN terminated as of October 31, 2008. Not only did we lose the marketing revenues from that relationship (which have relatively little associated expenses), but also our clients could have a more difficult time obtaining the financing needed to purchase a home through us, which could negatively impact our transaction revenues. In addition, although not applicable to our arrangement with E-LOAN, upon the termination of an arrangement with an independent third party to provide core services, we or our affiliates may be required to pay certain costs or fees or be precluded from performing such services for a period of time. Any of these events could negatively impact our business and financial condition. If consumers do not continue to use the Internet as a tool in their residential real estate buying or selling process, we may be unable to attract new clients and our growth and financial results may suffer. We rely substantially on our website and web-based marketing for our client lead generation. As the residential real estate business has traditionally been characterized by personal, face-to-face relationships between buyers and sellers and their agents, our success will depend to a certain extent on the willingness of consumers to increase their use of online services in the real estate sales and purchasing process. In addition, our success will depend on consumers visiting our website early in their selling or buying process so that we can interface with potential clients before they have engaged a real estate agent to represent them in their transactions. If we are unable to convince visitors to our website to transact business with us, our ZipAgents will have fewer opportunities to represent clients in residential real estate transactions and our net revenues could suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to expand successfully into additional real estate markets. We currently operate in 35 markets, including 18 of the 25 most populous U.S. metropolitan statistical areas. A part of our business strategy is to grow our business by entering into additional real estate markets and, to this end, in 2005 we commenced operations in Las Vegas in April, Houston in June and Miami in October. During 2006, we commenced operations in Tampa in February, Orlando in April, Minneapolis/St. Paul in May, Austin in July, Palm Beach in September, and the Greater Philadelphia area in December. In 2007, we commenced operations in Naples and Tucson in March, Denver in April, Jacksonville in May, Salt Lake City and Richmond in July, Virginia Beach and Charlotte in August, Raleigh-Durham in September and Westchester County in December. In 2008 we commenced operations in Long Island in March and Hartford in July and depending on market conditions, we have plans to enter up to two additional markets during 2009, including our previously announced entry into the Portland, Oregon market. Key elements of this expansion include our ability to identify strategically attractive real estate markets and to establish successfully our brand in those markets. We consider many factors when selecting a new market to enter, including: • the economic conditions and demographics of a market; • the general prices of real estate in a market; • Internet use in a market; 26 Table of Contents • competition within a market from local and national brokerage firms; • rules and regulations governing a market; • the ability and capacity of our organization to manage expansion into additional geographic areas, additional headcount and increased organizational complexity; • the existence of, and ease of access to information from, local MLSs; and • state laws governing cash rebates and other regulatory restrictions. This expansion could involve significant initial start-up costs. We expect that significant revenues from any new market may be achieved, if ever, only after we have been operating in that market for some time and begun to build market awareness of our services. As a result, geographic expansion is likely to increase significantly our expenses and cause fluctuations in our operating results. In addition, if we are unable to successfully penetrate these new markets, we may continue to incur costs without achieving the expected revenues, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations. Unless we develop, maintain and protect a strong brand identity, our business may not grow and our financial results would suffer. We believe a strong brand is a competitive advantage in the residential real estate industry because of the fragmentation of the market and the large number of agents and brokers available to the consumer. Because our brand is relatively new, we currently do not have strong brand identity. We believe that establishing and maintaining brand identity and brand loyalty is critical to attracting new clients. In order to attract and retain both clients and employees, and respond to competitive pressures, we expect to increase our marketing and customer acquisition expenditures to develop, maintain and enhance our brand in the future. We plan to continue conducting and refining our online advertising and possibly to test and conduct print, radio, direct mail and outdoor campaigns. We plan to increase our online advertising expenditures. While we intend to enhance our marketing and advertising activities in order to attract and retain both clients and employees, these activities may not have a material positive impact on our brand identity. In addition, developing our brand will depend on our ability to provide a high-quality consumer experience and high quality service, which we may not do successfully. If we are unable to develop, maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to attract new clients and employees and successfully expand our operations will be harmed. We have numerous competitors, many of which have valuable industry relationships, innovative business models and access to greater resources than we do. The residential real estate market is highly fragmented, and we have numerous competitors, many of which have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger client bases, and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some of those competitors are large national brokerage firms or franchisors, such as Prudential Financial, Inc., RE/MAX International Inc. and Realogy Corporation, which owns the Century 21, Coldwell Banker and ERA franchise brands, a large corporate relocation business and NRT Incorporated, the largest brokerage in the United States. NRT owns and operates brokerages that are typically affiliated with one of the franchise brands owned by Realogy. We are also subject to competition from local or regional firms, as well as individual real estate agents. Our technology-focused business model is a relatively new approach to the residential real estate market and many consumers may be hesitant to choose us over more established brokerage firms employing traditional techniques. Furthermore, customers increasingly enjoy more options for online real estate information, as many more real estate companies, brokers, and agents, media companies, individual and consolidated MLSs and the National Association of REALTORS®, operate competing websites and are increasingly using the Internet to market to potential customers. As a result, we must continue to innovate to compete, and, even with new innovation, customers may not distinguish or value the benefits of our website and technology offerings. Consequently, any technology-based benefits we have may dissipate significantly, or erode entirely, over time. 27 Table of Contents Some of our competitors are able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, make more attractive offers to potential agents and clients and respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies. According to REAL Trends, average commissions charged in the real estate brokerage industry declined from 5.44% in 2000 to 5.02% to 2005 (although they subsequently increased in 2006 and 2007 to 5.18% and 5.25%, respectively). Some of our competitors with greater resources may be able to better withstand the short- or long-term financial effects of changing commission percentages. In addition, the barriers to entry to providing an Internet-enabled real estate service are low, allowing current or new competitors to adopt certain aspects of our business model, including offering comprehensive MLS data to clients via the Internet, thereby reducing our competitive advantage. We may not be able to compete successfully for clients and agents, and increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We also compete or may in the future compete with various online services, such as LendingTree (which owns RealEstate.com), MarketLeader (formerly HouseValues, Inc.), HomeGain, Inc., Move, Inc. and its REALTOR.com® affiliate, Zillow and Yahoo! Inc. that also look to attract home buyers and sellers using the Internet and monetize those relationships. Move is affiliated with NAR, the National Association of Home Builders, or NAHB, and a number of major MLSs, which may provide Move with preferred access to listing information and other competitive advantages. In addition, the competitive landscape in the residential real estate industry is in the midst of significant changes as new business models enter the marketplace. In order to continue growing, our business model must remain attractive to consumers so that we can compete successfully with these newer models as they expand into our marketplaces. Also, to remain economically viable, we will need to be able to compete effectively with these new entrants for the acquisition of agents and leads. Changes in federal and state real estate laws and regulations, and rules of industry organizations such as the National Association of REALTORS®, could adversely affect our business. The real estate industry is heavily regulated in the United States, including regulation under the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, state and local licensing laws and regulations and federal and state advertising laws. In addition to existing laws and regulations, states and industry participants and regulatory organizations could enact legislation, regulatory or other policies in the future that could restrict our activities or significantly increase our compliance costs. Moreover, the provision of real estate services over the Internet is a relatively new and evolving business, and legislators, regulators and industry participants may advocate additional legislative or regulatory initiatives governing the conduct of our business. If existing laws or regulations are amended or extended or new laws or regulations are adopted, we may need to comply with additional legal requirements and incur significant compliance costs, or we could be precluded from certain activities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business activities or results thereof. Because we operate through our website, state and local governments other than where the subject property is located may attempt to regulate our activities, which could significantly increase our compliance costs and limit certain of our activities. In addition, industry organizations, such as NAR and other state and local organizations, can impose standards or other rules affecting the manner in which we conduct our business. Any significant lobbying or related activities, either of governmental bodies or industry organizations, required to respond to current or new initiatives in connection with our business could substantially increase our operating costs and harm our business. We derive a significant portion of our leads through third parties, and if any of our significant lead generation relationships are terminated, impaired or become more expensive, our ability to attract new clients and grow our business may be adversely affected. We generate leads for our ZipAgents through many sources, including leads from third parties with which we have only non-exclusive, short-term agreements that are generally terminable on little or no notice and with no penalties. Our largest third-party lead source, HomeGain, Inc., which competes with us for online customer acquisition, generated approximately 19%, 21% and 27% of our leads during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 28 Table of Contents Some of our lead source providers have been experiencing economic difficulties and laying off employees. Should we lose a large lead supplier, whether through insolvency or otherwise, or should our leads from other sources become materially more expensive, we may not be able to obtain substitute sources on acceptable terms, which may impair our ability to attract new clients and grow our business. Our business may also be impaired to the extent that state laws or NAR or MLS regulations make it more difficult or expensive for lead generators to provide us with sufficient leads. For example, as discussed above, we have seen an increase in complaints from local MLSs regarding our use of phrases such as “search MLS listed homes,” or other phrases including the term “MLS,” and we have received corresponding demands from several MLSs that we refrain from using such phrases. If these MLSs are successful in restricting our ability to use these terms on our website or in our marketing materials, our ability to attract clients directly to our website could be impaired, which could increase our cost of obtaining leads. Our ability to expand our business may be limited by state laws governing cash rebates to home buyers. A significant component of our value proposition to our home buyer clients is a cash rebate provided to the buyer at closing. Currently, our clients who are home buyers represent a substantial majority of our business and revenues. Certain states, such as Alaska, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Jersey, Oklahoma, Oregon and Tennessee, may presently prohibit sharing any commissions with, or providing rebates to, clients who are not licensed real estate agents. In addition, other states may limit or restrict our cash rebate program as currently structured, including Missouri and New York, although we have received guidance from the New York State Attorney General’s office indicating that the applicable law in New York would not be interpreted and/or enforced in such a way as to restrict rebates to consumers. In connection with entry into the Greater Philadelphia area, we entered the New Jersey market, where the payment of cash rebates is currently not permitted by law. Consequently, in New Jersey, in lieu of offering a cash rebate to our buyers, we make a donation to a local charity through United Way equal to 20% of our commissions, although we plan to discontinue this practice effective April 1, 2009. Similarly, in 2009 we plan to enter the Portland market from which we plan to serve portions of Oregon and Washington. Cash rebates are prohibited by law in Oregon and, therefore, we plan to adjust our pricing structure and/or value proposition for our buyers serviced in our Portland market. Should we decide to expand into any of these other states where the payment of cash rebates are restricted or prohibited, we may need to adjust our pricing structure or refrain from offering rebates to buyers in these states. Moreover, we cannot predict whether alternative approaches will be cost effective or easily marketable to prospective clients. The failure to enter into these markets, or others that adopt similar restrictions, or to successfully attract clients in these markets, could harm our business. We have undergone significant management transitions recently and need to successfully integrate new members of the management team as well as retain key personnel or our business could be harmed. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. For example, Mr. Joseph Patrick Lashinsky assumed the position of President on January 8, 2007 and the additional position of Chief Executive Officer on June 4, 2007, and Mr. Charles C. (Lanny) Baker assumed the position of Chief Financial Officer on December 1, 2008. Our success depends on the contributions of Mr. Lashinsky, Mr. Baker and other senior level sales, operations, marketing, technology and financial officers. Our business plan was developed in large part by our senior level officers and its implementation requires their skills and knowledge. With the exception of Mr. Lashinsky and Mr. Baker, none of our officers or key employees have an employment agreement, and their employment is at will. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our executives. As we implement changes in our agent compensation policies, we may incent behaviors that cause an increase in our expenses and potentially a decrease in our profit margin with the goal of increasing our sales and overall profitability. From time to time, we implement changes to our agent compensation policies to achieve certain goals, for example, the improvement of agent productivity and retention. Beginning in approximately 2007, we 29 Table of Contents implemented increased recognition and reward programs that provide agents with increased compensation based on factors such as tenure or achievement of certain productivity levels. However, the implementation of these programs has caused a slight decrease in our gross margin as more agents have become eligible for participation. We may, in the future, opt to implement additional changes in our agent compensation policies that may increase our compensation expenses, and possibly decrease our profit margins, with the goal of increasing our sales and overall profitability As we test or roll out changes in our agent compensation policies, we may cause agent attrition, leading to lower profitability. From time to time, we test new agent compensation policies in certain of our markets, with the goal of rolling out new policies that will improve agent recruitment, retention or profitability. For example, in 2008, we implemented a test compensation program in select markets to provide agents the opportunity to achieve higher commission splits as they earn increased transaction revenue, and to provide a higher commission level for those transactions with clients from the agent’s personal sphere of influence. Our goal for this test is to develop a compensation program that incents our agents to achieve increased transaction revenue and rewards agents for engaging clients from their personal sphere of influence in order to increase agent retention and productivity, thereby increasing our profits. However, any negative reaction by our agents concerning this or other test programs could result in a decline in recruitment, as well as an increase in agent attrition and a reduction in agent productivity. We monitor and evaluate the use of our website by our registered users, which could raise privacy concerns. Visitors to our website that register with us receive access to home listing and related information that we do not make available to unregistered users. As part of the registration process, our registered users consent to our use of information we gather from their use of our website, such as the geographic areas in which they search for homes, the price range of homes they view, their activities while on our website and other similar information. They also provide us with personal information such as telephone numbers and email addresses and our registered users consent to our internal use of this personal information. Our website includes a copy of our privacy policy, which sets forth our practices with respect to sharing website use and personal information when necessary to administer products or services we or companies with which we are affiliated may provide, when we have users’ permission, when required by law, or as otherwise described in our privacy policy. If we were to use this information outside the scope of our privacy policy or otherwise fail to observe any legal obligation keep this information confidential from third parties, including our former agents, we may be subject to legal claims or government action and our reputation and business could be harmed. Also, concern among consumers regarding our use of information gathered from visitors to our website could cause them not to register with us, which would reduce the number of leads we derive from our website. Because our website is our primary client acquisition tool, any resistance by consumers to register on our website would harm our business and results of operations, and could cause us to alter our business practices (including our offering of, or entry into joint marketing arrangements for, core services such as insurance and mortgage) or incur significant expenses to educate consumers regarding the use we make of information. The value of our services could be diminished if anti-spam software filters out an increasing portion of the emails we send. Our ZAP system includes a feature that sends out personalized email messages to our registered users on behalf of our agents. Given the volume of these messages, anti-spam software used by Internet service providers and personal computer users sometimes treats these messages incorrectly as unsolicited email, or “spam,” and filters them out. If this problem becomes more pervasive, the value of this aspect of our marketing and communication approach could be diminished, which could harm our business. 30 Table of Contents We may be subject to liability for the Internet content that we publish. As a publisher of online content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of the material that we publish or distribute. Such claims may include the posting of confidential data, erroneous listings or listing information and the erroneous removal of listings. These types of claims have been brought successfully against the providers of online services in the past and could be brought against us or others in our industry. In addition, we may face liability if an MLS member or participant utilizes an opt-out provision, as previously discussed, and we fail to comply with that requirement. These claims, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation, business and financial condition. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover claims of these types or may be inadequate to protect us from all liability that we may incur. We may need to change the manner in which we conduct our business if government regulation of the Internet increases. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet could adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. In addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on us. Laws and regulations directly applicable to communications or commerce over the Internet are becoming more prevalent. For example, both the U.S. government and the State of California have enacted Internet laws regarding privacy and sharing of customer information with third parties. Laws applicable to the Internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation apply to the Internet. In addition, because each state in which we do business requires us to be a licensed real estate broker, and residents of states in which we do not do business could potentially access our website, changes in Internet regulation could lead to situations in which we are considered to “operate” or “do business” in such states. Any such change could result in potential claims or regulatory actions (including with respect to our offering of, or entry into joint marketing arrangements for, core services such as insurance and mortgage). If we are required to comply with new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations, we may not be able to differentiate our services from traditional competitors and may not attract a sufficient number of clients for our business to be successful. Our operating results are subject to seasonality and vary significantly among quarters during each calendar year, making meaningful comparisons of successive quarters difficult. The residential real estate market traditionally has experienced seasonality, with a peak in the spring and summer seasons and a decrease in activity during the fall and winter seasons. Revenues in each quarter are significantly affected by activity during the prior quarter, given the typical 30- to 45-day time lag between contract execution and closing (although time to close can be significantly extended when foreclosed or short sale home is involved). Historically, this seasonality has caused our revenues, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities to be lower in the first and fourth quarters and higher in the second and third quarters of each year. However, there can be no assurance that the seasonality pattern for fiscal year 2009 or any fiscal year will be consistent with past experience, and macroeconomic changes in the market could mask the impact of seasonality. Factors affecting the timing of real estate transactions that can cause our quarterly results to fluctuate include: • timing of widely observed holidays and vacation periods and availability of home buyers and sellers, real estate agents and related service providers during these periods; • a desire to relocate prior to the start of the school year; 31 Table of Contents • inclement weather, which can influence consumers’ desire or ability to visit properties; • timing of employment compensation changes, such as raises and bonuses; • the time between entry into a purchase contract for real estate and closing of the transaction; • the levels of housing inventory available for sale; and • the involvement of a foreclosed home, or one involving a short sale. We expect our revenues to continue to be subject to these seasonal fluctuations, which, combined with our recent growth and macroeconomic market changes, make it difficult to compare successive quarters. Our reputation and client and agent service offerings may be harmed by system failures and computer viruses. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure are critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain clients and agents. In January 2009, we moved our primary network infrastructure co-location to a facility in Aurora, Colorado and have retained our Sunnyvale, California facility as a back-up facility. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to certain events beyond our control, including natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fire and flood, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Any interruption, delay or system failure could result in client and financial losses, litigation or other consumer claims and damage to our reputation. Our business is geographically concentrated, which makes us more susceptible to business interruption and financial loss due to natural disasters, inclement weather, economic or market conditions or other regional events outside of our control. Presently, our business is conducted principally in a few states in the western United States, especially California, and along the eastern seaboard. For example, we derived approximately 37% of our net transaction revenues in the State of California in both 2008 and 2007. Our geographic concentration makes us as a whole more vulnerable to the effects of forces and events beyond our reasonable control, such as regional disasters including earthquakes, harsh weather, economic or market conditions, or other events outside of our control, such as shifts in populations away from markets that we serve, or terrorist attacks. These events could cause us to sustain a business interruption or other financial loss that would be greater than if our business were more dispersed geographically. Our intellectual property rights are valuable and our failure to protect those rights could adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property rights, including existing and future patents, trademarks, trade secrets and copyrights, are and will continue to be valuable and important assets of our business. We believe that our proprietary ZAP technology and ZipNotify, as well as our ability to interoperate with multiple MLSs and our other technologies and business practices, are competitive advantages and that any duplication by competitors would harm our business. We have taken measures to protect our intellectual property, but these measures may not be sufficient or effective. For example, we seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. Intellectual property laws and contractual restrictions may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter others from developing similar technologies. In addition, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, including our patented technology. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business. 32 Table of Contents We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights disputes, which could divert management attention, be costly to defend and require us to limit our service offerings. Our business depends on the protection and utilization of our intellectual property. Other companies may develop or acquire intellectual property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to provide our products and services. One or more of these companies, which could include our competitors, could make claims alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could significantly divert management resources and attention. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. If we were unable to defend successfully against such claims, we may have to: • pay damages; • stop using the technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights; • seek a license for the infringing technology; or • develop alternative non-infringing technology. If we need to obtain a license for the infringing technology, it may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Developing alternative non-infringing technology could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop alternative technology for any infringing aspects of our business on attractive terms, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings. Any of these results could reduce our ability to compete effectively and harm our business and results of operations. We intend to evaluate acquisitions or investments in complementary technologies and businesses and we may not realize the anticipated benefits from, and may have to pay substantial costs related to, any acquisitions or investments that we undertake. As part of our business strategy, we plan to evaluate acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary technologies and businesses, including acquisitions of our own stock. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future or be able to make these acquisitions on a commercially reasonable basis, or at all. If we complete an acquisition or investment, we may not realize the benefits we expect to derive from the transaction. Any future acquisitions and investments would have several risks, including: • our inability to successfully integrate acquired technologies or operations; • diversion of management’s attention; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities; • expenses related to amortization of intangible assets; • risks associated with operating a business or in a market in which we have little or no prior experience; • potential write offs of acquired assets; • loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • our inability to recover the costs of acquisitions or investments; and • our inability to increase earnings per share. Our business model is relatively new and unproven, and we cannot guarantee our future success. Our Internet-enabled residential real estate brokerage service is a relatively new and unproven business model, and it has evolved, and may continue to evolve, over time. Our business model differs significantly from 33 Table of Contents that of a traditional real estate brokerage firm in several ways, including our heavy reliance on the Internet and technology and our employee agent model. The success of our business model depends on its scalability and on our ability to achieve higher transaction volumes at an overall lower cost per transaction in order to offset the costs associated with our technology, employee benefits, marketing and advertising expenses, and discounts and rebates. If we are unable to efficiently acquire clients and maintain agent productivity in excess of industry averages, our ZipAgents may close fewer transactions and our net revenues would likely suffer as a result. Also, given that our agent employee model is uncommon in the real estate industry, our compensation structure could be subject to legal challenge, and has been challenged in the past, as discussed in reports filed previously with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, our agents generally earn a lower per transaction commission than a traditional independent contractor agent. If we are unsuccessful in providing our agents with an attractive value proposition, whether through more opportunities to close transactions or otherwise, when compared to other agent opportunities, our ability to hire and retain qualified real estate agents would be harmed, which would significantly harm our business. OTHER RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK PRICE Our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, the risks identified above and the following: • variations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes in our financial guidance for future periods; • announcements by us or our competitors or lead source providers; • the relatively low level of public float and average daily trading volumes of our common stock; • changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations, or termination of coverage, by securities analysts; • inability to meet quarterly or yearly estimates or targets of our performance; • the hiring or departure of key personnel, including agents or groups of agents or key executives; • changes in our reputation; • acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors; • changes in the legal and regulatory environment, as well as the rules of trade associations, affecting our business; • any repurchase by us of our outstanding stock; • the adoption by us of any stockholder rights plan; and • market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Also, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and could harm the price of our common stock. Although we carry general liability and errors and omissions insurance, our insurance may not cover claims of these types or may be inadequate to protect us from all liability that we may incur. 34 Table of Contents Our share price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or from the perception that these sales could occur. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell our equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2008, we had 20,272,915 shares of common stock outstanding. These shares are eligible for sale, subject in some cases to the volume and other restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. The relatively small average daily trading volume of our stock could result in volatility in our trading prices, particularly if a large block of our stock is traded. The average daily trading volume of our common stock on The NASDAQ Stock Market is relatively small, averaging approximately 21,000 shares per trading day during 2008. Consequently, the trading price of our stock on any given day could be volatile, particularly if a relatively large block of stock is traded on that day. For example, several of our earliest investors, including Benchmark Capital Partners, Vanguard Ventures, and each of their affiliates, still own a significant number of shares of our common stock. If these investors, or any other holders of our common stock, determined to sell all or a part of their holdings, those sales could depress the trading price of our common stock. Our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of our stock, and as a result, the trading price for our shares may be depressed and these stockholders can take actions that may be adverse to your interests. Our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately one-third of our common stock. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. These stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to exert control over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders who are executive officers or directors, or who have representatives on our Board of Directors, could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to our other stockholders. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of common stock, including pursuant to a stockholder rights plan; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. 35 Table of Contents In addition, the provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporate Law govern us. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None. 