Item 1A. Risk Factors: RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 16 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY We have experienced net losses in recent quarters and expect to incur losses in the future. We have had a history of net losses from our inception in January 1999 through the first half of 2003 and at December 31, 2009 had an accumulated deficit of $93.4 million. While we were profitable in several quarters from 2003 through 2006, we have experienced quarterly net losses since then. If we do not become consistently profitable, our accumulated deficit will grow larger, and we could require additional financing to continue operations. If we do not become consistently profitable and additional funding is required to support our business, financing may not be accessible on acceptable terms, if at all. We cannot guarantee that our revenues will increase sufficiently to achieve and maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our profitability is dependent of the health of the residential real estate market, which is subject to macroeconomic forces that are beyond our control and may be difficult to predict. The success of our business depends to a significant extent on the health of the residential real estate market, which traditionally has been subject to cyclical economic swings as well as other changes in local, regional, national or seasonal economic conditions. The decision to purchase or sell residential real estate can be delayed or terminated based on macroeconomic conditions that, for example, reduce discretionary income. Macroeconomic factors that could adversely affect the demand for residential real estate and harm our business include, among others, economic slowdown or recession, changes in the availability and affordability of mortgages or extensions of credit, a rise in the number of foreclosures and other distressed properties available for sale, rising interest rates, inflation, disruptions in capital markets, declines in the stock market, adverse tax policies or changes in other regulations, increased unemployment, lower consumer confidence, lower wage and salary levels, war or terrorist attacks, natural disaster, energy price spikes, or actions taken by the Federal Reserve Board to regulate the supply of money, or the public perception that any of these events may occur. In addition, federal and state governments, agencies and government-sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could take actions that result in unforeseen consequences or that otherwise could negatively impact our business. The impact on our business of macroeconomic forces, over which we have no control, can be difficult to predict. For example, demand for housing could decrease, which should reduce the number of completed transactions and, consequently, revenues. Home sales prices could decrease, which should depress revenue and gross margins on completed transactions. Gross margins could decrease through higher costs. These and other consequences could significantly impair our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. We devote considerable resources to technologies and practices designed to make our agents more productive than the industry average, and if we do not achieve sufficient agent productivity and retention to offset these costs, we likely will not be profitable unless we change our business model. Our business model is designed to help our agents achieve higher transaction volumes at an overall lower cost per transaction that the industry average. To do so, we have adopted technologies and practices that differ significantly from most traditional real estate brokerages, such as our innovative use of technology to help our agents, buyers and sellers select and market properties, the employee agent model we typically use, our centralization of functions such as lead acquisitions, marketing and advertising, and our use of rebates and discounts to attract customers. Through these practices, we incur costs that most traditional real estate brokerages do not, including costs relating to employee benefits, expense reimbursement, training and transactional support in addition to technology development. We incur some of these costs before our agents have even completed their first transaction and generated any revenues to offset these costs. Consequently, we believe that agent turnover is more costly to us than to traditional real estate brokerages and we therefore must retain our agents longer than the industry average to recoup our investment. Reaching this goal is challenging, given that we are in a high-turnover industry, and most of our agent turnover occurs in the first few months after our agents commence employment. In addition, because our agents tend to become more productive the longer they stay 17 Table of Contents with us, retention of our more seasoned agents is of special importance to achieving profitability. If we are unable to achieve the necessary level of agent productivity and retention to offset these costs, we likely will not achieve profitability unless we change aspects of our business model. If we do not remain innovation leaders in our industry, we may not be able to grow our business and leverage our costs to achieve profitability. Innovation has been critical to our ability to leverage our costs while competing against other brokerages for clients and agents. For example, we have been at the forefront of brokerages in embracing the Internet by operating a virtual office website, or VOW, which reduces our need for office space and facilitates the transaction of business away from an office. We have also been at the forefront of managing lead acquisition costs by employing technology designed to promote efficient lead utilization, by using a centralized lead acquisition and distribution function, and by attracting consumers directly to our site for those areas where we operate. As others follow our practices or develop their own innovative practices, and as customers increasingly gain options for online real estate information and services, our ability to leverage our costs to achieve profitability may erode. For example, certain other brokerages, media companies, Multiple Listing Services, or MLSs, and the National Association of REALTORS®, or NAR, operate competing websites and are increasingly using the Internet to market to potential customers throughout the United States. Customers may not distinguish or value the benefits of our website and technology offerings as compared against these competing offerings. Such organizations could also build applications or offer products, including home listings and related information, that attract online traffic away from our website. In particular, NAR is in the process of developing a nation-wide MLS, which could significantly divert potential customers away from our website. Such organizations could devote substantial resources to dominating social media and online advertising, which would also impair our ability to attract website traffic. If our advantage in attracting website traffic erodes, our need to purchase leads from third parties will increase, thus increasing our costs. If we do not remain on the forefront of innovation to leverage our costs effectively while competing for clients and agents, we may not be able to achieve profitability. If we do not adapt to changes in technologies and practices relating to the nature and use of information, our operating results could suffer. We believe that we rely more heavily on technology than traditional “bricks and mortar” brokerages to gather, store, evaluate and communicate information, including our efforts to generate leads via the Internet, to prioritize leads, to communicate with agents via our ZAP agent platform, and to service customers, including by providing online access to comprehensive MLS listings. To continue to perform those functions effectively, we will need to adapt to changes in technologies and practices concerning the nature and use of information. For example, we will need to adapt our website and our ZAP agent platform to be compatible with new Internet and mobile access tools. We may need to adapt our approach for generating website traffic to address evolving customer interests, for example, a greater interest in social websites, in local neighborhood information, or in alternative media. We may need to adapt our technology or change our practices to address new Internet regulations, as well as new “spam” filters that incorrectly treat our emails to clients as unsolicited materials and block them. We must constantly modify our technology to successfully interact with each independent MLS in order to maintain access to that MLS’s home listings information. In addition, if the current practice of listing homes for sale on individual MLSs is challenged or replaced by a competing system, such as nation-wide MLS system being developed by NAR, we will need to adapt to that change to continue operating our business. Some of our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and practices relating to the nature and use of information. If we cannot make such adaptations quickly so as not to erode our competitive advantages in attracting clients and agents, or we do so in a manner that increases our expenses without a related increase in revenues, our operating results could suffer. 18 Table of Contents Our business practices are heavily regulated, and we may suffer significant financial harm and loss of reputation if we do not comply, cannot comply, or are alleged to have not complied with applicable laws, rules and regulations. Our business practices are heavily regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities, as well as the standards of private trade associations to which we belong. These regulations and standards are discussed in more detail in Item I of Part I of this report under “Regulatory Matters.” In addition to the employment and compensation regulations discussed in the following risk factor, the laws, rules and regulations that apply to our business practices include the following: • State real estate brokerage licensing requirements, as well as statutory due diligence, disclosure, record keeping and standard-of-care obligations relating to these licenses; • The federal Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the federal Fair Housing Act, and federal advertising and other laws, as well as comparable state statutes; • Rules of trade organization such as NAR, local MLSs, and state and local AORs; • Licensing requirements and related obligations that could arise from our business practices relating to the provision of core services; • Privacy regulations relating to our use of personal information collected from the registered users of our website; • The Federal Trade Commission Act and similar state laws that prohibit unfair and deceptive business practices with consumers; • Laws relating to the use and publication of information through the Internet; and • State laws that restrict or prohibit our payment of rebates. Because our business practices are heavily regulated, maintaining legal compliance is challenging and increases our costs, and we must continually monitor our business practices for compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. We may not become aware of all the laws, rules and regulations that govern our business, or be able to comply with all of them, given the rate of regulatory changes, ambiguities in regulations, contradictions in regulations between jurisdictions, and the difficulties in achieving both company-wide and region-specific knowledge and compliance. If we fail, or are alleged to have failed, to comply with any existing or future applicable laws, rules and regulations, we could be subject to lawsuits and administrative complaints and proceedings, and we could incur significant defense costs, settlement costs, damages and penalties for non-compliance. We could also have our business licenses suspended or revoked, have our business practices enjoined, or be required to modify our business practices, which could materially impair, or even prevent, our ability to conduct business in any or all of our markets. Any such events could also damage our reputation and impair our ability to attract clients and agents without increasing our related costs. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover claims of these types or may be inadequate to protect us from all liability that we may incur. In addition, if we cannot in the future obtain and maintain all of the regulatory approvals and licenses we may need to carry on our business as we choose, our ability to conduct business may be harmed. Further, any lobbying or related activities we undertake in response to current or new regulations could substantially increase our operating costs. We may suffer significant financial harm and loss of reputation if we do not comply, cannot comply, or are alleged to have not complied with applicable laws, rules and regulations concerning our employment and compensation practices. In addition to the regulations discussed in the previous risk factor, we are subject to laws, rules and regulations relating to our employment and compensation practices. In New York, our agents are independent contractors, and, like most brokerages, we are subject to the Internal Revenue Service regulations and applicable state law guidelines regarding independent contractor classification. Outside of New York, our ZipAgents are employees, and because this practice is rather unusual in our industry, we are subject to related regulations that 19 Table of Contents may not apply to traditional brokerages. We must reimburse the business expenses of our employee agents, and in some states, including California, this obligation cannot be waived or limited by contract. We classify employee ZipAgents as exempt from federal and state regulations regarding overtime and minimum wage payments because their duties, which consist of working in the field selling residential real estate, are designed to qualify for the “outside sales exemption” under the terms of the Fair Labor Standards Act and various state laws. However, state law in Nevada prohibits application of the federal outside sales exemption for employees in that state and thus, in Nevada, we must pay our employee agents minimum wage and overtime pay. These employment and compensation regulations are subject to judicial and agency interpretation as well as legislative change. Accordingly, there is no assurance as to how long current regulations will remain in place. In addition, as to any individual ZipAgent, in the event his or her duties become different than those currently assigned and contemplated, it might be determined that the outside sales exemption is inapplicable to that agent, or in the case of independent contractor ZipAgents, that the independent contractor classification is inapplicable. Further, in the event that legal standards for classification of agents as outside salespersons or independent contractors change or appear to be changing, it may be necessary to modify the ZipAgent compensation structure in some or all of our markets, including by paying additional compensation or reimbursing additional expenses. Also, if our compensation, reimbursement or classification policies and practices are challenged, such as through the lawsuit described in Item 3 of Part I of this report, we could incur substantial costs, penalties and damages, including back pay, unpaid employee benefits, taxes, expense reimbursement and attorneys’ fees. For example, when our former agent compensation and expense reimbursement policies were challenged in class action lawsuits filed against us from 2005 through 2007, we incurred material litigation and settlement costs and modified our expense reimbursement policies, as described in our reports filed previously with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any of these outcomes could result in substantial costs to us, could significantly impair our ability to conduct our business as we choose, and could damage our reputation and impair our ability to attract clients and agents. Our agent value proposition is uncommon in the industry, and if agents do not understand this proposition or value its attributes, whether in its current form or as we may test or implement changes to it, we may not be able to attract, retain and incentivize agents. Unlike most of our competitors, our agents are typically employees and not independent contractors. Through this practice, we incur costs for our agents that traditional real estate brokerages do not, including costs relating to employee benefits, expense reimbursement, centralized customer lead acquisition, training and transactional support. Also, as permitted by law, and unlike most of our competitors, we provide rebates and discounts to our clients. Because of these costs, our agents generally earn a lower per transaction commission than traditional agents. Our lower commission split may be particularly unattractive to certain higher performing agents. Also, because our model is uncommon in our industry, agents may not understand or appreciate its value proposition. In addition, agents may not appreciate the modifications to our agent compensation model that we may test and implement from time to time. If agents do not understand our employee compensation model, or do not perceive it to be more valuable than the traditional independent contractor model used by most of our competitors, whether through the provision of leads, training, support, employee benefits, expense reimbursement, more opportunities to close transactions or otherwise, we may not be able to attract, retain and incentivize them to grow our revenues without significantly increasing our commission splits or other costs, which would reduce our gross margins. Our efforts to grow local market share, including by building our listings business, will face intense competition, and we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful or profitable. The residential real estate industry is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. To capture and retain market share, we must compete successfully against other brokerages not only for large numbers of clients, but also for large numbers of agents in our headcount-intensive growth model. Because the market is highly fragmented and brokerage fees are variable, competitors may reduce fees to attract business. In addition, many of these brokerages have valuable relationships, innovative models, or access to greater resources than we do. Many 20 Table of Contents of our markets are composed of entrenched brokerages with superior local referral networks, name recognition and perceived local knowledge and expertise. These attributes give these brokerages an advantage in agent recruitment and retention, in attracting clients, and in building their listings business. Many brokerages also have more experience than us in acting as listing agents, as we have traditionally focused on clients looking to buy homes (with buyers representing 93% of our transactions in 2009). Some of our competitors with greater resources may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns or to better withstand price competition in a market. Unless we can develop the relationships, reputation, expertise and personnel to compete with these brokerages without reducing our prices or increasing our agent compensation, we may not be able grow our listings business, attract buyers, or attract and retain agents as needed to grow our market share profitably. We derive a significant portion of our leads through third parties, and if any of our significant lead generation relationships are terminated, impaired or become more expensive, we may not be able to attract new clients and grow our business without a substantial increase in expenses. We generate leads for our ZipAgents through many sources, including leads from third parties with which we have only non-exclusive, short-term agreements that are generally terminable on little or no notice and with no penalties. Our largest third-party lead source, HomeGain, Inc., which competes with us for online customer acquisition, generated approximately 15%, 19% and 21% of our leads during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We could lose a large lead supplier, whether through insolvency or otherwise. Also, state laws or NAR or MLS rules could make it more difficult or expensive for lead generators to provide us with sufficient leads. Should any of these events occur, or should leads otherwise become less available or more costly, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of leads to attract new clients and grow our business without a substantial increase in expenses. Unless we develop, maintain and protect a strong brand identity, we may not be able to grow our business without reducing our gross margins. We believe a strong brand that expands a company’s presence and builds its reputation is a competitive advantage in attracting both clients and agents. Accordingly, we plan to use our marketing and advertising efforts to promote a differentiated brand known for innovation and fast, excellent customer service. By building our brand, we hope to achieve greater website traffic and thus more effective leveraging of lead acquisition costs, market share growth, development of our listings business, and better agent recruitment and retention. However, our branding efforts may not have a material positive impact on our brand identity. Further, our branding message may not resonate with consumers or agents. In addition, developing a positive brand will depend on our ability to provide a high quality consumer experience and high quality service, which we may not do successfully. If we are unable to develop, maintain and protect our brand, we may not be able to increase our revenues without a disproportionate increase in our client acquisition and agent compensation costs, which would reduce the profitability of our business and negatively impact our financial condition. If our arrangements for providing access to core services become impaired, our financial condition could suffer. We have entered into a marketing agreement with Bank of America. Under that agreement, Bank of America pays us a flat monthly fee (which typically represents less than 3% of our monthly net revenues) in exchange for our commitment to market its mortgage products and other services to our clients. We routinely explore additional opportunities to provide or market services related to the purchase, sale and ownership of a home, which we refer to as core services. Some of these services may be offered through subsidiaries and other affiliates, while others may be offered through marketing arrangements with independent third parties, such as title, mortgage and insurance companies. If these relationships are terminated or otherwise become impaired, we could lose sources of revenues that we may not be able to readily replace, and our brand name and client relationships could suffer. Also, upon the termination of an arrangement with an independent third party to provide core services, we or our affiliates may be required to pay certain costs or fees or be precluded from 21 Table of Contents performing such services for a period of time. In addition, our clients could have a more difficult time obtaining the financing or other services needed to purchase a home through us, which could negatively impact our transaction revenues. Any of these events could negatively impact our financial condition. Providing online access to comprehensive MLS listings and related information concerning the residential real estate market is a hallmark of our business, and our ability to attract and service clients and to manage lead acquisition costs would be harmed if our ability to provide or advertise this access is impaired. A key component of our business strategy is to attract clients directly to our website, thereby increasing our client base and reducing our need to purchase leads from third parties. To do so, through our website, we offer clients access to, and the ability to search, real estate listings posted on the MLSs in the markets we serve, as well as related neighborhood information and maps. Our ability to display this information is subject to agreements with third parties, which may or may not be available on acceptable terms in the future. Those third parties operate their own technology platforms, and we may be unable to interoperate with those platforms cost-effectively or at all. Further, we could lose access to that information in the event of a systems failure or a dispute with those information providers. In addition, our ability to provide Internet access to home listings information could be diminished if increasing numbers of homeowners opt-out of providing their home listings information on the Internet, which is permitted by the rules of many MLSs, including those affiliated with NAR. Also, NAR is in the process of developing a nation-wide MLS, which could significantly change the current practice of listing homes for sale on individual MLSs. It is too soon to tell whether this new model will impair the home listings information we make available on our website, or the perceived value of that information. Should any such event occur, we expect that our website and services would become less attractive to potential clients, our ability to attract and service clients would be harmed, and we would likely need to purchase additional, and more costly, leads from third parties, increasing our expenses. Our customer value proposition includes rebates, and we may lose a competitive advantage in attracting consumers if we cannot or choose not to provide them. Currently, our clients who are home buyers represent a substantial majority of our business and revenues. Where permitted by law, we provide our home buyer clients a cash rebate at closing. Our willingness to provide rebates is subject to a number of considerations, including their perceived value by our buying clients, which could be impaired by changes in mortgage-related rules, regulations, or practices, including those of state or Federal agencies, government-sponsored agencies, or lenders. Also, the laws of some states restrict or prohibit our ability to provide rebates or share commissions with clients who are not licensed real estate agents. In such states in which we currently operate, we have needed to modify our pricing and rebate model to comply with those laws, and we may need to make additional adjustments should we decide to expand into additional states. We cannot predict whether alternative approaches will be cost effective or attractive to prospective clients. If we determine not to offer rebates in any or all of our markets for these or other reasons, our ability to attract customers may be impaired. Our efforts to offer advertising and lead generation services to others could detract from our ability to engage in residential real estate transactions with visitors to our website. We have entered into agreements to provide advertising and lead generation services to third parties in exchange for fixed monthly payments and, in some cases, volume-based and performance-based fees. We are exploring additional opportunities to leverage the advertising and lead generation capacities of our website. These activities may distract visitors to our site. They can also interrupt the registration-to-transaction path of our residential real estate sales business, including by leading potential customers away from our website. In addition, these activities may detract from our perceived commitment to user satisfaction and customer service, or may not be well received by visitors to our site for other reasons. Any of these outcomes could impair our ability to engage in residential real estate transactions with our website visitors. 22 Table of Contents As we pursue opportunities to increase our revenues, we may reduce our profit margins. We may implement changes to our business model and operations to improve our revenues that cause a disproportionate increase in our expenses and reduce our profit margins. For example, we may increase the portion of our business that is composed of representing sellers in their home listings, through which we would incur costs that we do not incur when representing buyers, such as marketing costs. We may make further revisions to our agent compensation model or replace it with a different model. We may disproportionately build our business in lower-priced markets or with transactions that comprise lower-priced homes. We may expand into new markets or new businesses, which could involve significant start-up costs that may only be recovered, if ever, after we have been operating in those markets or businesses for some time. Any of these attempts to improve our revenues could result in a disproportionate increase in our expenses and in reduced profit margins. Our operating results are subject to seasonality and vary significantly among quarters during each calendar year, making meaningful comparisons of successive quarters difficult. The residential real estate market traditionally has experienced seasonality, with a peak in the spring and summer seasons and a decrease in activity during the fall and winter seasons. Revenues in each quarter are significantly affected by activity during the prior quarter, given the typical 30- to 45-day time lag between contract execution and closing for traditional home purchases. For non-traditional sales, the time lag from contract execution to closing can be a few months. Historically, this seasonality has caused our revenues, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities to be lower in the first and fourth quarters and higher in the second and third quarters of each year. However, there can be no assurance that the seasonality pattern for any fiscal year will be consistent with past experience, and macroeconomic changes in the market could mask the impact of seasonality. Factors affecting the timing of real estate transactions that can cause our quarterly results to fluctuate include the timing of widely observed holidays and vacation periods, decisions to relocate prior to the start of the school year, inclement weather, and the timing of employment compensation changes and events, such as pay raises and bonus payments. We expect our revenues to continue to be subject to these seasonal fluctuations, which, combined with any growth in our business and the effects of macroeconomic market changes, may make it difficult to compare or analyze our financial performance effectively across successive quarters. Our failure to effectively manage the growth of our technology and control systems to service our clients and agents and maintain legal compliance could adversely affect our financial position. As our business grows in terms of the number of transactions we service, the number of agents we manage, and the number of markets in which we operate, our success will depend on our ability to expand, maintain and improve the technology that supports our business operations, as well as our financial and management information and control systems, and to maintain effective cost controls. Our ability to manage these efforts and to maintain legal compliance could be thwarted by many factors, including turnover in management and the lack of adequate staffing with the requisite expertise and training. If our operational technology is not sufficient to service our agents or clients, then agent retention could decrease, client service could suffer, and our costs could increase. In addition, if our systems, procedures or controls are not adequate to support our operations and reliable, accurate and timely financial and other reporting, we may not be able to satisfy regulatory scrutiny or contractual obligations with third parties and may suffer a loss of reputation. Any of these events could negatively affect our financial position. Our business, financial condition and reputation may be substantially harmed by systems interruptions, delays and failures. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure are critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain clients and agents. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to certain events beyond our control, including natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fire and flood, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar 23 Table of Contents events. In addition, we rely on third party vendors to operate our network infrastructure co-locations and to provide additional systems and related support. If we cannot continue to retain these services on acceptable terms, our access to these systems and services could be interrupted. Any systems interruption, delay or failure could result in substantially fewer transactions, increased costs, litigation and other consumer claims and could damage to our reputation, any of which could substantially harm our financial condition. We need to retain key personnel or our business could be harmed. Our success depends on the contributions of Mr. J. Patrick Lashinsky, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Charles C. (Lanny) Baker, our Chief Financial Officer, and other senior level sales, operations, marketing, technology and financial officers. With the exception of Mr. Lashinsky and Mr. Baker, none of our officers or key employees has an employment agreement, and their employment is at will. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our executives. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. Our business is geographically concentrated, which makes us more susceptible to business interruption and financial loss due to natural disasters, inclement weather, economic or market conditions or other regional events outside of our control. To date, our business has been conducted principally in a few states in the western United States, especially California, and along the eastern seaboard. For example, we derived approximately 33% and 37% of our net transaction revenues in the State of California in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our geographic concentration makes us as a whole more vulnerable to the effects of forces and events beyond our reasonable control, such as regional disasters including earthquakes, harsh weather, economic or market conditions, or other events outside of our control, such as shifts in populations away from markets that we serve, or terrorist attacks. These events could cause us to sustain a business interruption or other financial loss that would be greater than if our business were more dispersed geographically. In addition, our headquarters is located in California in the San Francisco Bay region, which is known for earthquakes. A disaster in this region could interrupt our financial functions and impair access to internal systems, documents and equipment that are critical to the operation of our business. Our intellectual property rights are valuable and our failure to protect those rights could adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property rights, including existing and future patents, trademarks, trade secrets and copyrights, are and will continue to be valuable and important assets of our business. We believe that our proprietary ZAP technology and ZipNotify, as well as our ability to interoperate with multiple MLSs and our other technologies and business practices, are competitive advantages and that any duplication by competitors would harm our business. We have taken measures to protect our intellectual property, but these measures may not be sufficient or effective. For example, we seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. Intellectual property laws and contractual restrictions may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter others from developing similar technologies. In addition, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, including our patented technology, or that otherwise prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to use our intellectual property. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business. We could be subject to intellectual property rights disputes that adversely affect our business. As noted above, our business depends on the protection and utilization of our intellectual property to provide our products and services. We may bring lawsuits to protect against the potential infringement of our intellectual property rights. In addition, other companies, including our competitors, may make claims against us alleging our infringement of their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims brought by or against us, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could significantly divert management resources and attention. If we are unable to resolve those claims in our favor, we 24 Table of Contents may be required to pay damages, to stop using any infringing technology, to seek a license for that technology, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which may require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop alternative technology for any infringing aspects of our business on attractive terms, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings. Any of these results could harm our business. We intend to evaluate acquisitions or investments in complementary technologies and businesses and we may not realize the anticipated benefits from, and may have to pay substantial costs related to, any acquisitions, mergers, joint ventures or investments that we undertake. As part of our business strategy, we plan to evaluate acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary technologies and businesses, including acquisitions of our own stock. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future or to make these acquisitions on a commercially reasonable basis. If we complete an acquisition, merger, joint venture or investment, we may not realize the benefits we expect to derive from the transaction. Any future acquisitions and investments would have several risks, including: • Our inability to successfully integrate acquired business cultures, personnel, systems, technologies or operations; • Problems integrating and maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls, policies, books and records, including problems relating to the adequacy of internal controls and to reporting; • Diversion of management’s attention; • Loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • Disruption of existing operations; • Risks associated with operating a business or in a market in which we have little or no prior experience; • Our inability to recover the costs of acquisition, merger, joint venture or investment; • Accounting risks, including risks associated with accounting for acquisitions, potential amortization of intangible assets, and potential write-off of acquired assets; • Potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities; • Our inability to increase earnings per share; and • Assumption of liabilities, including unknown and unforeseen liabilities. OTHER RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMONSTOCK The trading price of our stock has been, and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely. For example, our closing stock price on The NASDAQ Stock Market for the 52 weeks ended March 1, 2010 ranged from a low of $2.01 to a high of $5.00. Many factors can cause stock price fluctuation, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, the risks identified above, as well as the following factors: • Indicia of our financial performance, such as variations in our quarterly results of operations, changes in our financial guidance for future periods, inability to meet quarterly or yearly performance estimates or targets, and changes in performance estimates or recommendations, or termination of coverage, by securities analysts; • Announcements by us, our competitors or lead source providers, including announcements about strategic alliances; • The relatively low level of public float and average daily trading volumes of our common stock; 25 Table of Contents • The sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including by investors who still own a significant number of our shares issued before our public offering, or from the perception that these sales could occur; • Any repurchase by us of our outstanding stock; • Our adoption of any stockholder rights plan; and • Broad market and industry factors that are independent of our actual operating performance. In addition, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and could harm the price of our common stock. Although we carry general liability and errors and omissions insurance, our insurance may not cover claims of these types or may be inadequate to protect us from all liability that we may incur. Our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of our stock, and as a result, the trading price for our shares may be depressed and these stockholders can take actions that may be adverse to your interests. Our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock, totaling over one-third as of March 1, 2010. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. These stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to exert control over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders who are executive officers or directors, or who have representatives on our Board of Directors, could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to our other stockholders. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. Among other things, these provisions: • Establish a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • Do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors; • Authorize the board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of common stock, including pursuant to a stockholder rights plan; • Prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • Limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • Require advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. In addition, the provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporate Law govern us. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. 26 Table of Contents These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None. 