Risk Factors," which appears in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding long-lived assets, see Note 3—"Segment Information" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which appears in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Segment Financial Information For information regarding segment revenues, profit or loss and assets, see Note 1—"Description of Business, Basis of Presentation, Accounting Policies, and Recent Accounting Pronouncements" and Note 3—"Segment Information" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Employees At December 31, 2012, we had 1,574 employees, 948 of which were located in the U.S., 323 of which were located in Europe, 293 of which were located in India, and 10 of which were located in Canada. None of these employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 19 Table of Contents Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10 "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about executive officers of the Registrant. Available Information Our corporate website is www.unitedonline.com. On this website, we make available, free of charge, our annual, quarterly and current reports (including all amendments to such reports), changes in the stock ownership of our directors and executive officers, our code of ethics, and other documents filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding the Company that we file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. By referring to our websites, including, without limitation, www.unitedonline.com, www.ftd.com, www.ftd.ca, www.interflora.co.uk, www.interflora.ie, www.flyingflowers.co.uk, www.flowersdirect.co.uk, www.drakealgar.com, www.memorylane.com, www.classmates.com, www.schoolfeed.com, www.stayfriends.de, www.stayfriends.se, www.trombi.com, www.stayfriends.at, www.stayfriends.ch, and www.mypoints.com, we do not incorporate these websites or their contents into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO THE FTD SPIN-OFF TRANSACTION AND OTHER STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS The Company may be unable to complete the planned FTD Spin-Off Transaction. On August 1, 2012, United Online, Inc. announced that its Board of Directors had approved a preliminary plan with respect to the FTD Spin-Off Transaction. There can be no assurance that the FTD Spin-Off Transaction will be completed in the manner or timeframe contemplated by the Board of Directors' preliminary plan, or at all. Completion of the FTD Spin-Off Transaction and the timing thereof may be affected by a number of factors and conditions, including, without limitation, the following: •Changes in business, political and economic conditions; •Changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of governmental authorities; •Changes in our operating performance; •Any required consents under our material contracts, including the the credit agreement dated June 10, 2011, between FTD Group, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Administrative Agent for the lenders (the "Credit Agreement"); and •Satisfaction of certain conditions precedent, including final approval of transaction specifics by the Board of Directors, receipt of certain tax rulings and an opinion of counsel, and the filing and effectiveness of a registration statement with the SEC. If the FTD Spin-Off Transaction is not completed in the manner or timeframe contemplated by the Board of Directors' preliminary plan, or not completed at all, the price of United Online, Inc.'s common stock may decline. 20 Table of Contents There are a number of risks associated with the FTD Spin-Off Transaction and the Company's exploration of other Strategic Transactions and they may have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. There are a number of risks associated with the FTD Spin-Off Transaction and the Company's exploration of other Strategic Transactions, including, without limitation, the following: •Management estimates that the costs to complete the FTD Spin-Off Transaction and any other Strategic Transaction approved by the Board of Directors will be significant. In the event such transactions are not consummated, we will have incurred significant costs that we will not be able to recover, and for which we will not have received any benefit. •The FTD Spin-Off Transaction and any other Strategic Transaction will require significant time and attention of our management and operational resources, and they may detract from the operation of our businesses and the execution of other strategic initiatives. In addition, the Company may experience a loss of employees, or employees may be distracted by the FTD Spin-Off Transaction and our exploration of other Strategic Transactions due to uncertainty about their future roles pending the completion of any such transactions. •Each of the independent publicly-traded companies resulting from the completion of the FTD Spin-Off Transaction may be unable to achieve some or all of the full strategic and financial benefits that we expect will result from the separation of the Company into independent publicly-traded companies, or such benefits may be delayed or may not occur at all. For example, there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will place values on each of the independent companies that will equal a total value that is greater than that which the Company has today. •If the FTD Spin-Off Transaction is consummated, each of the newly separated, publicly-traded companies will be smaller and less diversified, as compared to the Company today. Any of the foregoing, in addition to any other risks related to the contemplated transactions that are not specifically described above, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If the FTD Spin-Off Transaction were to fail to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then the FTD Spin-Off Transaction could result in significant tax liabilities. United Online, Inc. has requested a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the FTD Spin-Off Transaction and certain related transactions will qualify under Sections 355 and 368 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In addition, United Online, Inc. expects to receive an opinion from the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, substantially to the effect that the FTD Spin-Off Transaction and related transactions so qualify. The IRS ruling and the tax opinion will rely on certain facts, assumptions and undertakings, and certain representations from United Online, Inc. and FTD, regarding the past and future conduct of their respective businesses and other matters, and the tax opinion will rely on the IRS ruling. Notwithstanding the IRS ruling and the tax opinion, the IRS could determine that the FTD Spin-Off Transaction should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings is not correct, or that the FTD Spin-Off Transaction should be taxable for other reasons, including if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions in the tax opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the FTD Spin-Off Transaction ultimately is determined to be taxable, then a stockholder of United Online, Inc. that received shares of FTD common stock in the FTD Spin-Off Transaction would be treated as having received a distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the distribution date and could incur significant income tax liabilities. Such distribution 21 Table of Contents would be taxable to such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of United Online's current and accumulated earnings and profits. Any amount that exceeded United Online's earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder's tax basis in its shares of United Online, Inc. stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. In addition, United Online would recognize a taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the shares of common stock of FTD held by United Online, Inc. on the distribution date over United Online, Inc.'s tax basis in such shares. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY Current or future economic conditions may have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Economic conditions in the U.S. and the European Union have been depressed and may remain challenging for the foreseeable future. Our products and services are discretionary and dependent upon levels of consumer spending. Consumer spending patterns are difficult to predict and are sensitive to, among other factors, the general economic climate, the consumers' levels of disposable income, consumer debt, and overall consumer confidence. The challenging economic conditions have adversely impacted certain aspects of our businesses in a number of ways, including reduced demand, more aggressive pricing for similar products and services by our competitors, decreased spending by advertisers, increased credit risks, increased credit card failures, a loss of customers, and increased use of discounted pricing for certain of our products and services. It is likely that these and other factors will continue to adversely impact our businesses, at least in the near term. The challenging economic conditions may adversely impact our key vendors. Such economic conditions and decreased consumer spending have, in certain cases, resulted in, and may in the future result in, a variety of negative effects such as a reduction in revenues, increased costs, lower gross margin and operating margin percentages, increased allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, increased provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, and recognition of impairments of assets, including goodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our business is subject to fluctuations. Our results of operations and changes in our key business metrics from period to period have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control and difficult to predict. Each of the risk factors discussed in this Item 1A and the other factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC may affect us from period to period and may affect our long-term performance. As a result, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons as an indication of our future performance. In addition, these factors and the challenging economic conditions create difficulties with respect to our ability to forecast our financial performance and business metrics accurately. We believe that these difficulties in forecasting present even greater challenges for financial analysts who publish their own estimates of our future financial results and business metrics. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the expectations of, or projections made by, our management or the financial analysts. In the event we do not achieve such expectations or projections, our financial results and the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. New business initiatives, products, services, features, applications, or functionality may not be successful, which could adversely impact our key metrics and financial results. We have expended, and may continue to expend, significant resources in developing, integrating and implementing new business initiatives, products, services, features, applications, and functionality, such as those related to the NetZero 4G mobile broadband service, our high school yearbook initiatives 22 Table of Contents related to the Classmates website and the schoolFeed Facebook application. Such development, integration and implementation involve a number of uncertainties, including unanticipated delays and expenses and technological problems. New business initiatives, products, services, features, applications, or functionality also may not be accepted by consumers or commercially successful. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in such development, integration and implementation efforts, including those related to the NetZero 4G mobile broadband service, our high school yearbook initiatives or the schoolFeed Facebook application, or that any new business initiatives, products, services, features, applications, or functionality will be accepted by consumers or commercially successful. If our development, integration and implementation efforts are not successful, or such new business initiatives, products, services, features, applications, or functionality are not accepted by consumers or commercially successful, our key metrics and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. Our marketing efforts may not be successful or may become more expensive, either of which could increase our costs and adversely impact our key metrics and financial results. We spend significant resources marketing our brands, products and services. We rely on relationships with a wide variety of third parties, including Internet search providers such as Google, Internet advertising networks, co-registration partners, retailers, distributors, and direct marketers, to source new customers and to promote or distribute our products and services. In addition, in connection with the launch of new products or services, such as those related to the NetZero 4G mobile broadband service, we may spend a significant amount on marketing, including through television advertising. With any of our brands, products and services, if our marketing activities are inefficient or unsuccessful, if important third-party relationships or marketing strategies, such as Internet search engine marketing and search engine optimization, become more expensive or unavailable, or are suspended or terminated, for any reason, if there is an increase in the proportion of consumers visiting our websites or purchasing our products and services by way of marketing channels with higher marketing costs as compared to channels that have lower or no associated marketing costs, or if our marketing efforts do not result in our products and services being prominently ranked in Internet search listings, our key metrics and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. We may be unable to maintain or grow our advertising revenues. Reduced advertising revenues may reduce our profits. Advertising revenues are a key component of revenues and profitability for our Content & Media and Communications segments. Factors that have caused, or may cause in the future, our advertising revenues to fluctuate include, without limitation, changes in the number of visitors to our websites, active accounts or consumers purchasing our products and services, the effect of, changes to, or terminations of key advertising relationships, changes to our websites and advertising inventory, changes in applicable laws, regulations or business practices, including those related to behavioral or targeted advertising, user privacy and taxation, changes in business models, changes in the online advertising market, changes in the economy, advertisers' budgeting and buying patterns, competition, and changes in usage of our services. Decreases in our advertising revenues are likely to adversely impact our profitability. Advertising revenues generated by our Content & Media and Communications segments generally have been declining, when compared to prior periods, and may continue to decline in the future as a result of various factors, including, without limitation, the risks and uncertainties discussed above, in other risk factors, and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any or all of the above factors have caused, and could continue to cause, our advertising revenues and profits to significantly decline in the future. 23 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect comparisons of our operating results. We transact business in different foreign currencies and may be exposed to financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the British Pound, the Euro, the Indian Rupee, the Swedish Krona, the Swiss Franc, and the Canadian Dollar. Revenues and expenses in foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in U.S. Dollars as the U.S. Dollar weakens or strengthens against such other currencies. Substantially all of the revenues of our international businesses are received, and substantially all expenses are incurred, in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, which increases or decreases the related U.S. Dollar-reported revenues and expenses depending on the fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Certain of our key business metrics, such as the FTD segment's average order value and the Content & Media segment's ARPU, are similarly affected by such foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Changes in global economic conditions, market factors, and governmental actions, among other factors, can affect the value of these currencies in relation to the U.S. Dollar. A strengthening of the U.S. Dollar compared to these currencies and, in particular, to the British Pound and the Euro, has had, and in future periods could have, an adverse effect on the comparisons of our revenues and operating income against prior periods. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results, and such fluctuations could negatively impact the comparisons of such results against prior periods. Significant problems with our key systems or those of our third-party vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The systems underlying the operations of each of our business segments are complex and diverse, and must efficiently integrate with third-party systems, such as credit card processors. Key systems include, without limitation, order transmission, fulfillment and processing, including the system for transmitting orders through the floral network; billing; website and database management; customer support; telecommunications network management; advertisement serving and management systems; and internal financial systems. Some of these systems, such as customer support for our Content & Media and Communications segments, are outsourced to third parties, and other systems, such as Interflora's order transmission, fulfillment and billing system and FTD's customer service telephone system, are not redundant. We have experienced systems problems in the past, and we or these third parties may experience problems in the future. In addition, if these third parties face financial or other difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. Any significant errors, failures, interruptions, delays, or other problems with our systems or our third-party vendors or their systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, our Content & Media and Communications businesses outsource a majority of their live technical and billing support functions. These businesses rely on customer support vendors, and we maintain only a small number of internal customer support personnel for these businesses. Our internal customer support personnel are not equipped to provide the necessary range of customer support functions in the event that our vendors unexpectedly become unable or unwilling to provide these services to us. Legal actions or investigations could subject us to substantial liability, require us to change our business practices, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are currently, and have been in the past, party to various legal actions and investigations. These actions may include, without limitation, claims by private parties in connection with consumer protection and other laws, claims that we infringe third-party patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property or proprietary rights, securities laws claims, claims involving marketing practices or unfair competition, claims in connection with employment practices, breach of contract claims, and other business-related claims. The nature of our business could subject us to additional claims for 24 Table of Contents similar matters, as well as a wide variety of other claims including, without limitation, claims for defamation, right of publicity, negligence, and privacy and security matters. The failure to successfully defend against these and other types of claims, including claims relating to our business practices, could result in our incurring significant liabilities related to judgments or settlements or require us to change our business practices. Infringement claims may also result in our being required to obtain licenses from third parties, which licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Both the cost of defending claims, as well as the effect of settlements and judgments, could cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly from period to period and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, we also file actions against third parties from time to time for various reasons, including, without limitation, to protect our intellectual property rights, to enforce our contractual rights, or to make other business-related claims. The legal fees, costs and expenses associated with these actions may be significant, and if we were to lose these actions, we may be required to pay the other party's legal fees, costs and expenses, which also may be significant and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Various governmental agencies have in the past, and may in the future, assert claims, institute legal actions, inquiries or investigations, or impose obligations relating to our business practices, such as our marketing, billing, customer retention, renewal, cancelation, refund, or disclosure practices. The Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") and certain state agencies have investigated Internet companies, including us, in connection with consumer protection and privacy matters. In addition, we have received civil investigative demands and subpoenas, as applicable, from the FTC and the Attorneys General of various states, primarily regarding their respective investigations into certain former post-transaction sales practices and certain of our marketing, billing, renewal, and privacy practices and disclosures. We have been cooperating with these investigations. However, the outcome of these or any other governmental investigations or their potential implications for our business are uncertain. We may not prevail in existing or future claims and any judgment against us or settlement or resolution of such claims may involve the payment of significant sums, including damages, fines, penalties, or assessments, or changes to our business practices. For example, in 2010, Memory Lane, Inc. (then known as Classmates Online, Inc.) and FTD, Inc. paid $960,000 and $640,000, respectively, to resolve an investigation of the Attorney General for the State of New York related to their former post-transaction sales practices. Defending against lawsuits, inquiries and investigations also involves significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. There are no assurances that additional governmental investigations or other legal actions will not be instituted in connection with our former post-transaction sales practices or other current or former business practices. Enforcement actions or changes in enforcement policies and procedures could result in changes to our business practices, as well as significant damages, fines, penalties or assessments, which could decrease our revenues or increase the costs of operating our business. To the extent that our services and business practices change as a result of claims or actions by governmental agencies or private parties, or we are required to pay significant sums, including damages, fines, penalties, or assessments, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Governmental regulation of the collection and use of personal information or our failure to comply with these regulations could harm our businesses. The FTC has regulations regarding the collection and use of personal information obtained from individuals when accessing websites, with particular emphasis on access by minors. In addition, other governmental authorities have regulations to govern the collection and use of personal information that may be obtained from customers or visitors to websites. These regulations include requirements that procedures be established to disclose and notify users of our websites of our privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for collection and use of personal information and provide users 25 Table of Contents with the ability to access, correct or delete personal information stored by us. In addition, the FTC and other governmental authorities have made inquiries and investigations of companies' practices with respect to their users' personal information collection and dissemination practices to confirm these are consistent with stated privacy policies and to determine whether precautions are taken to secure consumer's personal information. The FTC and certain state agencies also have made inquiries, and, in a number of situations, brought actions against companies to enforce the privacy policies of these companies, including policies relating to security of consumers' personal information. As discussed in the preceding risk factor, we have been cooperating with the Attorneys General of various states in connection with their inquiries and investigations of, among other things, the privacy policies of our Classmates.com and FTD.com businesses. Becoming subject to the regulatory and enforcement efforts of the FTC, a state agency or other governmental authority could have a material adverse effect on our ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our marketing efforts, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, the adverse publicity regarding the existence or results of an investigation could have an adverse impact on customers' willingness to use our websites and services and thus could adversely impact our future revenues. Certain of our international businesses, such as FTD's international consumer and floral network businesses, must also comply with data protection and privacy laws in the U.K., including the Data Protection Act 1998. If we or any of the third-party services on which we rely fail to transmit customer information and payment details in a secure manner, or if they otherwise fail to protect customer privacy in online transactions or if they transfer personal information outside the European Economic Area without complying with certain required conditions, then we risk being exposed to civil and criminal liability in the U.K., usually in the form of fines, as well as claims from individuals alleging damages as a result of the alleged non-compliance. We may also be required to alter our data collection and use practices. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our business is subject to online security risks and a security breach or inappropriate access to, or use of, our networks, computer systems or services or those of third-party vendors could expose us to liability, claims and a loss of revenue. The success of our business depends on the security of our networks and, in part, on the security of the network infrastructures of our third-party vendors. In connection with conducting our business in the ordinary course, we store and transmit customer and member information, including personally identifiable information. Unauthorized or inappropriate access to, or use of, our networks, computer systems or services, whether intentional, unintentional or as a result of criminal activity, could potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information, including credit card information, of our customers and of third parties. A number of other websites have publicly disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their sites. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose members, customers or vendors. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our proprietary information or the information of our members or customers, cause interruption in our operations, or damage our computers or those of our members or customers. A significant number of our members and customers authorize us to bill their payment card accounts (credit or debit) directly for all amounts charged by us. These members and customers provide payment card information and other personally identifiable information which, depending on 26 Table of Contents the particular payment plan, may be maintained to facilitate future payment card transactions. We rely on third-party and internally-developed encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including payment card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Non-technical means, for example, actions by an employee, can also result in a data breach. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, we could be liable to the banks that issue the payment cards for their related expenses and penalties. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give our members and customers the option of using payment cards. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our businesses would be seriously harmed. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Security breaches, including any breach related to us or the parties with which we have commercial relationships, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss, litigation and possible liability. We cannot assure you that the security measures we take will be effective in preventing these types of activities. We also cannot assure you that the security measures of our third-party vendors, including network providers, providers of customer and billing support services, and other vendors, will be adequate. In addition to potential legal liability, these activities may adversely impact our reputation or our revenues and may interfere with our ability to provide our products and services, all of which could adversely impact our business. In addition, the coverages and/or limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Changes in laws and regulations and new laws and regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are subject to a variety of international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including, without limitation, those relating to taxation, bulk email or "spam," advertising, including, without limitation, targeted or behavioral advertising, user privacy and data protection, consumer protection, antitrust, and unclaimed property. Compliance with the various laws and regulations, which in many instances are unclear or unsettled, is complex. New laws and regulations, such as those being considered or recently enacted by certain states or the federal government related to automatic-renewal practices, user privacy, targeted or behavioral advertising, floral-related fees and advertising, and taxation, could impact our revenues or certain of our business practices or those of our advertisers. Any changes in the laws and regulations applicable to us, the enactment of any additional laws or regulations, or the failure to comply with, or increased enforcement activity of, such laws and regulations, could significantly impact our products and services, our costs, or the manner in which we or our advertisers conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. Our online nostalgia and online loyalty marketing services, as well as our FTD segment's consumer business, rely heavily on email campaigns, and any disruptions or restrictions on the sending of emails or increase in the associated costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our emails have historically generated the majority of the traffic on our online nostalgia websites and are the most important driver of member activity for our online loyalty marketing service. A significant number of members of our online nostalgia and online loyalty marketing services elect to opt-out of receiving certain types of emails. Without the ability to email these members, we have very limited means of inducing these members to return to our websites and utilize our services. In addition, 27 Table of Contents each month, a significant number of email addresses for members of our online nostalgia and online loyalty marketing services become invalid. This disrupts our ability to email these members and also prevents our online nostalgia members from being able to contact these members, which is one of the reasons why members use our online nostalgia services. Our FTD segment generates a significant portion of its consumer orders from the emails we send to customers who have previously ordered products from us. We also engage in a number of third-party email marketing campaigns in which such third parties include our marketing offers in the emails they send. An increase in the number of members or customers to whom we are not able to send emails, or who elect to not receive, or are unable to receive, our emails could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. From time to time, Internet service providers block bulk email transmissions or otherwise experience technical difficulties that result in our inability to successfully deliver emails to our members or customers. Third parties may also block, impose restrictions on, or start to charge for, the delivery of emails through their email systems. Due to the importance of email to our businesses, any disruption or restriction on the distribution of emails or increase in the associated costs could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our failure to enforce and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights could harm our business. Our trade names, trademarks, service marks, patents, copyrights, domain names, trade secrets, and other intellectual property are important to the success of our businesses. In particular, we view our primary trademarks as critical to our success. We principally rely upon patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret, and domain name laws in the U.S. and similar laws in other countries, as well as licenses and other agreements with our employees, members, consumers, suppliers, and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property and proprietary rights in the technology, products, services, and content used in our operations. These laws and agreements may not guarantee that our proprietary rights will be protected and our intellectual property and proprietary rights could be challenged or invalidated. We also license some of our intellectual property rights, including the Mercury Man logo, to third parties. The steps we and such third parties have taken to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be adequate, and other third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property and proprietary rights. The protection of our intellectual property and proprietary rights may require the expenditure of significant financial and internal resources. We cannot assure you that we have taken adequate steps to prevent infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights could adversely affect our brands and could harm our business. We may be unsuccessful at acquiring additional businesses, services or technologies. Even if we complete an acquisition, it may not improve our results of operations and may also adversely impact our business, financial condition and cash flows. Acquisitions of businesses, services or technologies may provide us with an opportunity to diversify the products and services we offer, leverage our assets and core competencies, complement our existing businesses, or expand our geographic reach. However, acquiring companies is a difficult process with many factors outside of our control. In addition, the Credit Agreement imposes certain restrictions on our ability to complete acquisitions and there is no assurance that we will be successful in completing additional acquisitions, if any. 28 Table of Contents We have evaluated and expect to continue to explore, a wide variety of potential strategic transactions that we believe may complement our existing businesses. However, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits and synergies of an acquisition will materialize or that any integration attempts will be successful. Acquiring a business, service or technology involves many operational and financial risks, including risks relating to: •disruption of our ongoing business and significant diversion of resources and management time from day-to-day responsibilities; •acquisition financings that involve the issuance of potentially dilutive equity or the incurrence of debt; •reduction of cash and other resources available for operations and other uses; •exposure to risks specific to the acquired business, service or technology to which we are not currently exposed; •risks of entering markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; •unforeseen obligations or liabilities; •difficulty assimilating the acquired customer bases, technologies and operations; •difficulty assimilating and retaining management and employees of the acquired business; •potential impairment of relationships with users, customers or vendors as a result of changes in management of the acquired business or other factors; •large write-offs either at the time of the acquisition or in the future, the incurrence of restructuring and other exit costs, the amortization of identifiable intangible assets, and the impairment of amounts capitalized as goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets; and •lack of, or inadequate, controls, policies and procedures appropriate for a public company, and the time, cost and difficulties related to the implementation of such controls, policies and procedures or the remediation of any deficiencies. Any of these risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, an acquisition of a foreign business involves risks in addition to those set forth above, including risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates, potentially unfamiliar economic, political and regulatory environments, and integration difficulties due to language, cultural and geographic differences. FTD has a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund operations, our flexibility in operating our business and our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. FTD has a substantial amount of indebtedness which could have significant consequences for our business and financial condition. For example: •If we fail to meet payment obligations or otherwise default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. •We will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of FTD's cash flow from operations to payments on the debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions, and other purposes. 29 Table of Contents •Our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital needs, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions, and other general corporate requirements could be limited. •The Credit Agreement imposes operating and financial covenants and restrictions on FTD, including limitations on our ability to use FTD cash flow for the benefit of our subsidiaries other than FTD, and compliance with such covenants and restrictions may adversely affect our ability to adequately finance our operations or capital needs in the future, to pursue attractive business opportunities that may arise in the future, to redeem or repurchase capital stock, to pay dividends, to sell assets, and to make capital expenditures. •Our failure to comply with the covenants in the Credit Agreement, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement, which could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to become immediately due and payable and could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. •We will experience increased vulnerability to, and limited flexibility in planning for, changes to our businesses and adverse economic and industry conditions. •We could be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies with less indebtedness. •Our ability to apply excess FTD cash flow or proceeds from certain types of securities offerings, asset sales and other transactions to purposes other than the repayment of debt, as well as servicing of the debt, could be limited. •The interest rates under the Credit Agreement will fluctuate and, accordingly, interest expense may increase. •If we make voluntary prepayments on our debt, we will have to accelerate the related discount accretion and debt issuance cost amortization, which would impact interest expense, and certain prepayments may be subject to penalties. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness subject to certain conditions, and the risks described above may be increased if we incur additional indebtedness. The Credit Agreement includes guarantees on a joint and several basis by UNOL Intermediate, Inc. and certain of FTD Group, Inc.'s existing and future, direct and indirect, domestic subsidiaries and is secured by first priority security interests in, and mortgages on, substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets of UNOL Intermediate, Inc., FTD Group, Inc. and certain of FTD Group, Inc.'s direct and indirect subsidiaries and first priority pledges of all the equity interests owned by FTD Group, Inc. in certain of its existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries (except with respect to foreign subsidiaries in which case such pledges are limited to 66% of the outstanding capital stock). The occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement could permit the lenders to terminate the commitments of such lenders to make further extensions of credit under the Credit Agreement, to call and enforce the guarantees, and to foreclose on the collateral securing such debt. Our ability to operate our business could be seriously harmed if we lose members of our senior management team or other key employees. Our business is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, particularly Mark R. Goldston, our chairman, president and chief executive officer, and other key personnel. Any of our officers or employees can terminate his or her employment relationship at any time, including prior to or in connection with the FTD Spin-Off Transaction or any other Strategic Transaction. The loss of any of these key employees or our inability to attract or retain other qualified 30 Table of Contents employees could seriously harm our business and prospects. We do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. We may reduce or stop paying quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. The payment of future dividends is discretionary and is subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Our cash flows have been declining, and we expect our cash flows to continue to decline. Declines in our cash flows, the effects of the FTD Spin-Off Transaction, any other Strategic Transactions or other transactions on our businesses, changes in our business needs, including working capital and funding for business initiatives or acquisitions, changes in tax laws relating to dividends, or changes in corporate strategy, among other factors, could cause our Board of Directors to decide to reduce or cease the payment of dividends in the future. We cannot assure you that we will not decrease or discontinue quarterly cash dividends, and if we do, our stock price could be negatively impacted. We may not realize the benefits associated with our assets and may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we are required to expense certain costs or impair our assets. We have capitalized goodwill and identifiable intangible assets in connection with our acquisitions and certain business initiatives such as the content archives on the Classmates website. We perform an impairment test of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or when events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not indicate that goodwill or any such assets might be permanently impaired. If our acquisitions or business initiatives are not commercially successful or, if due to economic or other conditions, our assumptions regarding the performance of our businesses or business initiatives are not achieved, we would likely be required to record impairment charges which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced impairment charges in the past, including a $26.9 million goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge in the quarter ended December 31, 2012 with respect to our MyPoints reporting unit. Given the current economic environment and the uncertainties regarding the impact on our businesses, there can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions regarding the duration of the challenging economic conditions, or the period or strength of recovery, made for purposes of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets impairment testing will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. If our assumptions regarding forecasted revenues or growth rates of certain reporting units or other factors are not achieved or are revised downward, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future periods. In addition, from time to time, we record tangible or intangible assets on our balance sheet that, due to changes in value or in our strategy, may have to be expensed in future periods. Write-downs or impairments of assets, whether tangible or intangible, could adversely and materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Foreign, state and local governments may attempt to impose additional income taxes, sales and use taxes, value added taxes or other taxes on our business activities and Internet-based transactions, including our past sales, which could decrease our ability to compete, reduce our sales, or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are subject to income and various other taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our consolidated provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In addition, our effective income tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being less than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and more (or determined to be more by a particular taxing jurisdiction) than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or by, among other factors, changes 31 Table of Contents in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles, and interpretations. We are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income and other taxes against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions, and our historical recognition of other tax matters. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In connection with our Internet-based transactions, a number of states have been considering or adopting legislation or instituting policy initiatives, including those that would facilitate a finding of nexus to exist between Internet companies with the states, aimed at expanding the reach of sales and use taxes or imposing state income or other taxes on various innovative theories, including agency attribution from independent third-party service providers. Such legislation or initiatives could result in the imposition of additional sales and use taxes, or the payment of state income or other taxes, on certain transactions conducted over the Internet. In addition, advertisers and other third parties may choose to not do business with us in order to avoid nexus with certain states. If such legislation is enacted, or such initiatives are instituted, and unless overturned by the courts, the legislation or initiatives could subject us to substantially increased tax liabilities for past and future sales or state income or other taxes, require us to collect additional sales and use taxes, cause our future sales to decrease, otherwise negatively impact our businesses, and thus have a material adverse effect on us. We face risks relating to operating and doing business internationally that could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. Our businesses operate in a number of countries outside the U.S. Conducting international operations involves risks and uncertainties, including: •adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; •potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added taxes and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; •increased financial accounting, tax and reporting burdens and complexities; •disruption of our ongoing business and significant diversion of management attention from day-to-day responsibilities; •localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; •lack of familiarity with, and unexpected changes in, foreign regulatory requirements; •potentially longer accounts receivable collection cycles; •difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; •the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, regulations and legal and regulatory standards; •political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and •nationalization; •reduced or varied protection for intellectual property and proprietary rights. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international operations, our key business metrics, and our financial results. 32 Table of Contents Our businesses could be shut down or severely impacted by a catastrophic event. Our businesses could be materially and adversely affected by a catastrophic event. A disaster such as a fire, earthquake, flood, power loss, terrorism, or other similar event, affecting any of our facilities, data centers or computer systems, or those of our third-party vendors, or a system interruption or delay that slows down the Internet or makes the Internet or our websites temporarily unavailable, could result in a significant and extended disruption of our operations and services. Any prolonged disruption of our services due to these or other events would severely impact our businesses. We do not carry flood insurance for certain of our facilities, and the property, business interruption and other insurance we do carry may not be sufficient to cover, if at all, losses that may occur as a result of any events which cause interruptions in our services. We cannot predict our future capital needs and we may not be able to secure additional financing, which could adversely impact us. We may need to raise additional funds in the future to fund our operations, for acquisitions of businesses, services or technologies or for other purposes. Additional financing may not be available in a timely manner, on terms favorable to us, or at all. The terms of FTD's indebtedness, in addition to the degree to which we are leveraged, could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. In addition, the current volatility of, and disruption in, the securities and credit markets may restrict our ability to raise any such additional funds. If adequate funds are not available or not available when required and in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, our businesses and future prospects may suffer. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law limit the ability of our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or discouraging takeover attempts that our stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial because of the premium price that would be offered by a potential acquirer. In addition, although our previous stockholder rights plan expired in 2011, there are no assurances that our Board of Directors will not implement a new stockholder rights plan in the future. Our stock price has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and it may continue to be volatile with extreme trading volume fluctuations. Since the announcement of the FTD Spin-Off Transaction, the market price of our common stock has increased significantly. However, the completion of the FTD Spin-Off Transaction is subject to a number of factors and risks, and the market price of our common stock may decrease if the completion of the FTD Spin-Off Transaction is delayed or does not occur. Further, if we complete the FTD Spin-Off Transaction, we will be a substantially smaller company than we were prior to the FTD Spin-Off Transaction, and we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade after the FTD Spin-Off Transaction. In addition, the Nasdaq Global Select Market has experienced substantial price and trading volume fluctuations. The broad market and industry factors that influence or affect such fluctuations may harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. As a result of these or other reasons, we have experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. 33 Table of Contents ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR FTD SEGMENT Competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The consumer market for flowers and gifts is highly competitive and fragmented as consumers can purchase the products we offer from numerous sources, including traditional local retail florists, supermarkets, mass merchants, gift retailers, and floral and gift mass marketers. The floral network services market is highly competitive as well, and retail florists and supermarkets may choose from a variety of providers that offer similar products and services. In the U.S., our key competitors in the consumer market include online, catalog and specialty floral and gift retailers and mass market retailers with floral departments, including such companies as 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc., Proflowers.com and Teleflora. Our key competitors in the U.S. floral network services market include providers of online or e-commerce services, retailers and wholesalers of floral-related products and other floral network services, such as Teleflora and BloomNet Wire Service, a subsidiary of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. International key competitors include mass market retailers, such as Asda, Marks & Spencer, NEXT, and Waitrose/John Lewis, as well as online, catalog and specialty gift retailers, such as eFlorist and Serenata Flowers. We face intense competition in the consumer market. We expect the sales volumes at supermarkets and mass merchants to continue to increase, and other online floral mass marketers will continue to increase their competition with us. In particular, the nature of the Internet as a marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparative shopping, and we have experienced increased competition. Some of our competitors may have significant competitive advantages over us, may engage in more significant discounting, may devote significantly greater resources to marketing campaigns or other aspects of their business or may respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities or customer requirements. We face intense competition in the market for floral network services. In addition, the number of retail florists has declined over the past years. As the number of retail florists decreases, competition for the business of the remaining retail florists will intensify. Increased competition in the consumer market or the floral network services market may result in lower revenues, reduced gross margins, loss of market share, and increased marketing expenditures. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. FTD is dependent on its strategic relationships to help promote its consumer websites; failure to establish, maintain or enhance these relationships could have a material adverse effect on FTD's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We believe that our strategic relationships with leading online retailers and direct marketers are critical to attract customers, facilitate broad market acceptance of our products and brands and enhance our sales and marketing capabilities. Our failure to maintain existing strategic relationships or to establish additional relationships that generate a significant amount of traffic from other websites could limit the growth of our business. Establishing and maintaining relationships with leading online retailers and direct marketers is competitive and expensive. We may not successfully enter into additional strategic relationships. In addition, we may not be able to renew existing strategic relationships beyond their current terms or may be required to pay significant fees to maintain and expand these strategic relationships. Further, many online retailers and direct marketers that we may approach to establish an advertising presence or with whom we already have an existing relationship may also provide advertising services for our competitors. As a result, these companies may be reluctant to enter into, maintain or expand a strategic relationship with us. Our business, financial 34 Table of Contents condition, results of operations, and cash flows may suffer if we fail to enter into new strategic relationships, or maintain or expand existing strategic relationships, or if these strategic relationships do not result in traffic on our websites sufficient to justify their costs. In addition, we are subject to many risks beyond our control that influence the success or failure of our strategic relationships. For example, if any of the online retailers or direct marketers with which we have strategic relationships experience financial or operational difficulties that materially and adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations under their agreements with us, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on third parties who fulfill orders and deliver goods and services to our customers and their failure to provide our customers with high-quality products within the required timeframe and a high level of customer service may harm our brands and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We believe that our success in promoting and enhancing our brands depends on our ability to provide our customers high-quality products within the required timeframe and a high level of customer service. Our business depends, in part, on the ability of our independent floral network members and third-party suppliers who fulfill our orders to do so at high-quality levels. We work with our floral network members and third-party suppliers to develop best practices for quality assurance; however, we generally do not directly control or continuously monitor any floral network member or third-party supplier. The failure of our floral network members or third-party suppliers to fulfill orders to our customers' satisfaction, at an acceptable level of quality and within the required timeframe, could adversely impact our brands and cause us to lose customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Additionally, because we depend upon third parties for the delivery of our products to customers, strikes or other service interruptions affecting these shippers could have an adverse effect on our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. If any of our shippers are unable or unwilling to deliver our products, we would have to engage alternative shippers, which could increase our costs. A disruption in any of our shippers' delivery of our products could cause us to lose customers or could increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The success of our business is dependent on our floral network members and on the financial performance of the retail floral industry. A significant portion of our profitability is dependent on our floral network members. We have lost, and may continue to lose, floral network members as a result of both declines in the number of local retail florists as a result of economic factors and competition, as well as our members choosing not to do business with us. If we lose a significant number of floral network members, or if we are not able to maintain or increase revenues from our floral network members, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the operating and financial success of our business has been, and is expected to continue to be, dependent on the financial performance of the retail floral industry. There can be no assurance that the retail floral industry will not decline, that consumer preferences for, and purchases of, floral products will not decline, or that retail florist revenues or inter-city floral delivery transactions will not decline in absolute terms. A sustained decline in the sales volume of the retail floral industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 35 Table of Contents FTD's revenues and operating results fluctuate on a seasonal basis and may suffer if revenues during peak seasons do not meet our expectations. FTD's business is seasonal, and our quarterly revenues and operating results typically exhibit seasonality. For example, revenues and operating results tend to be lower for the quarter ending September 30 because none of the most popular floral and gift holidays, which include Valentine's Day, Easter, Mother's Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas, fall within that quarter. In addition, depending on the year, Easter and the U.K. Mother's Day sometimes fall within the quarter ending March 31 and sometimes fall within the quarter ending June 30. Our operating results may suffer if revenues during our peak seasons do not meet expectations, as we may not generate sufficient revenues to offset increased costs incurred in preparation for peak seasons. Our working capital, cash and short-term borrowings also fluctuate during the year as a result of the factors set forth above. Moreover, the operational risks described elsewhere in these risk factors may be significantly exacerbated if those risks were to occur during a peak season. Shifts in the mix of products versus services sold, and types of products and services sold, may adversely affect our financial results. The cost of revenues associated with our products revenues is generally higher than that associated with our services revenues. In addition, the cost of revenues associated with certain products and services may be higher than that associated with other products and services. As a result, changes in the proportion of FTD segment revenues that is represented by products revenues versus services revenues, and certain types of products and services versus others, may adversely affect our revenues, cost of revenues, cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues, and segment income from operations. Shifts in the mix of products and services sold at standard pricing as compared to discounted pricing or the failure to maintain our standard pricing for products and services could have adverse effects on our financial results. Due to economic conditions and for competitive and other reasons, we have been offering broader and greater discounts to the consumer, both on a promotional basis to consumers generally, as well as through strategic arrangements with third parties that have a fixed, and in certain cases greater, discount or other associated costs. We also offer discounts on our floral network service fees from time to time on a promotional basis. Shifts in the mix of products and services sold that have resulted in increases in the proportion of products and services sold at a discount, and at times at greater discounts, including through such strategic arrangements, have resulted, and may in the future result, in reduced revenues, an increase in cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues, and a decrease in segment income from operations. We currently intend to continue selling a portion of our products and services at a discount, including through such strategic arrangements, and there are no assurances that the portion of products and services sold at a discount will not continue to increase. The continued use of discounts, including through such strategic arrangements, for our products and services may result in our becoming more reliant upon offering discounts in order to sell our products and services, which could result in our having to reduce our standard pricing, and may adversely impact our financial results. If the supply of flowers becomes limited, the price of these products could rise or these products may become unavailable, which could result in our not being able to meet consumer demand and could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Many factors, such as weather conditions, agricultural limitations, restrictions relating to the management of pests and disease, and fair trade and other social or environmental issues, affect the supply of flowers and the price of our floral products. If the supply of flowers available for sale is 36 Table of Contents limited, the wholesale prices of flowers could rise, which would cause us to increase our prices or reduce our profits. An increase in our prices could result in a decline in customer demand for our floral products, which would decrease our revenues. Alternatively, we may not be able to obtain high-quality flowers in an amount sufficient to meet customer demand. Even if available, flowers from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than those currently offered by us. A large portion of our supply of flowers is sourced from Colombia, Ecuador and Holland. The availability and price of our products could be affected by a number of other factors affecting suppliers, including: •severe weather; •disease, infestation and other biological problems; •import duties and quotas; •time-consuming import regulations or controls at airports; •changes in trading status; •economic uncertainties and currency fluctuations, including as a result of the recent volatility and disruptions in the credit markets and general economy; •foreign government laws and regulations; •political, social and economic instability, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; •nationalization; •fair trade and other social or environmental certifications, requirements or practices; •governmental bans or quarantines; •disruption in transportation and delivery; •trade restrictions, including U.S. retaliation against foreign trade practices; and •transportation availability and costs. Foreign, state and local governments may attempt to impose additional sales and use taxes, value added taxes or other taxes on our business activities, including our past sales, which could decrease our ability to compete, reduce our sales, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In accordance with current industry practice by domestic floral and gift order gatherers and our interpretation of applicable law, our FTD consumer business collects and remits sales and use taxes on orders that are delivered in states where it has a physical presence or other form of jurisdictional nexus, which is a limited number of states. If states successfully challenge this practice and impose sales and use taxes on orders delivered in states where we do not have physical presence or another form of jurisdictional nexus, we could incur substantial tax liabilities for past sales and lose future sales as a result of the increased tax cost that would be borne by the customer. Also, states may seek to reclassify the status of Internet order gatherers, such as our FTD consumer business, as persons that are deemed to fulfill the underlying order, in which case, a state may seek to impose taxes on the receipts generated by our FTD consumer business for orders fulfilled and delivered by florists outside such state. In addition, future changes in the operation of our online and telephonic sales channels could result in the imposition of additional sales and use tax or other tax obligations. 37 Table of Contents Additionally, in accordance with current industry practice by international floral and gift direct marketers and our interpretation of applicable law, we collect and remit value added taxes on certain consumer orders placed through Interflora. Future changes in the operation of our business could result in the imposition of additional tax obligations. Moreover, if a foreign taxing authority successfully challenges our current practice or implements new legislative initiatives, we could incur substantial tax liabilities for past sales and lose future sales as a result of the increased tax costs that would be borne by the customer. The imposition of additional tax liabilities for past or future sales could decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers and reduce our sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. We utilize outsourced staff and temporary employees, who may not be as well trained or committed to our customers as our permanent employees, and their failure to provide our customers with high-quality customer service may cause our customers not to return, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We utilize and rely on a significant number of outsourced staff and temporary employees in addition to our permanent employees, to take orders and respond to customer inquiries. These outsourced staff and temporary employees may not have the same level of commitment to our customers or be as well trained as our permanent employees. In addition, we may not hire enough outsourced staff or temporary employees to adequately handle the increased volume of telephone calls we receive during peak periods. If our customers are dissatisfied with the quality of the customer service they receive, they may not place orders with us again, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR CONTENT & MEDIA SEGMENT We face intense competition that could result in the failure of our online nostalgia services to be commercially successful. As consumers continue to spend more time and money online, the competition for their time and engagement has continued to intensify. Consumers have a great number of options for online content and entertainment, including, by way of example, games, websites offering news and current events, movies, television shows, videos, information about any and virtually every topic, and the opportunity to communicate, socialize and interact with acquaintances and others. Certain aspects of the value proposition of our online nostalgia services compete with major social networking websites such as Facebook and Google+, as well as Internet search engines such as Google. Many of our competitors offer their content and services free of charge. The market for online loyalty marketing services is highly competitive, and we expect competition to significantly increase in the future as loyalty marketing programs continue to grow in popularity. Our MyPoints online loyalty marketing service faces competition for members from other online loyalty marketing programs, such as Ebates, as well as offline loyalty marketing programs that have a significant online presence, such as those operated by credit card, airline and hotel companies. In addition, we also face competition for members from online providers of discounted offerings and coupons, such as Groupon and LivingSocial. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name and brand recognition, larger user bases, significantly greater financial, technical, sales, and marketing resources, and engage in more extensive research and development than we do. Some of our competitors also have lower customer acquisition costs than we do, offer a wider variety of services, have more compelling websites with more extensive user-generated or third-party content or offer their services or content free to their users. Some of our competitors have been more successful than we have been in attracting and retaining visitors and members, and our ability to attract visitors to our websites and maintain a large 38 Table of Contents and growing member base has been adversely affected by such competition. In particular, Facebook's membership base currently far exceeds that of any of its competitors, and Google+ has been growing its membership base at a rapid pace. We rely on some of our competitors to promote our services and for new member acquisitions, such as Facebook in connection with our Facebook high school fan pages and our schoolFeed Facebook app. Any changes to Facebook's rules or policies or any other changes implemented by Facebook could adversely affect our business or our strategies. If our competitors provide services similar to our online nostalgia services for free, we may not be able to charge for our online nostalgia services. Competition has adversely affected our subscription revenues from online nostalgia services, as well as our advertising revenues from our online nostalgia services and online loyalty marketing service. More intense competition could also require us to increase our marketing or other expenditures. As a result of competition, our key business metrics, revenues, cash flows, and profitability have been adversely affected. Continued declines in the number of pay accounts for our online nostalgia services could cause our business and financial results, including cash flows, to suffer. Pay accounts are critical to our business model. Only a small percentage of users visiting our websites or initially registering for our online nostalgia services sign up for a paid subscription at the time of registration. As a result, our ability to generate subscription revenues is highly dependent on our ability to attract visitors to our websites, register them as free members, encourage them to return to our websites, and convince them to become pay accounts in order to access the pay features of our websites. We believe the integration of the schoolFeed app will increase the number of visitors to our Classmates.com website. However, our experience with the schoolFeed app and its users is limited, and there are no assurances that we will be able to convince these users to become pay accounts. A number of our pay account subscriptions each month are not renewed or are canceled, which, for the Content & Media segment, we refer to as "churn." The level of churn we experience fluctuates from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, including our mix of subscription terms, which affects the timing of subscription expirations, as well as the degree of credit card failures. To maintain or reduce the level of churn, we must continually add new pay accounts both to replace pay accounts who churn and to grow our business beyond our current pay account base. We expect that our churn rate will continue to fluctuate from period to period. A significant majority of our pay accounts are on plans that automatically renew at the end of their subscription period and we have received complaints with respect to our renewal policies and practices. As discussed in the risk factors related to changes in laws and regulations and to legal actions and investigations, the laws being considered or recently enacted by certain states regarding automatic-renewal practices will, and enforcement action or changes in enforcement policies and procedures could, impact certain of our business practices. We also experience an increase in the percentage of credit card failures from time to time. Any change in our renewal policies or practices, or in the degree of credit card failures, could have a material impact on our churn rate. If we experience a higher than expected level of churn, it will make it more difficult for us to increase or maintain the number of pay accounts, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our financial results. Pay accounts and free active accounts have been decreasing, and we believe such trend will continue. If we are not able to attract visitors to our websites and convert a significant portion to pay accounts, the number of pay accounts for our online nostalgia services and related advertising revenues will continue to decline and the financial results of the Content & Media segment will be adversely affected. 39 Table of Contents Failure to increase or maintain the number of visitors to our websites and members for our online nostalgia and online loyalty marketing services or the activity level of these visitors and members could cause our business and financial results to suffer. The success of our online nostalgia and online loyalty marketing services depends upon our ability to increase or maintain the number of visitors to our websites, our base of free members and the level of activity of those visitors and members. A decline in the number of visitors, registered or active free online nostalgia members, or a decline in the activity of those members, could result in decreased pay accounts, decreased content on our websites and decreased advertising revenues. A decline in the number of registered or active online loyalty marketing service members could also result in decreased advertising revenues. We have been experiencing a decline in the number of active members, and we believe this trend will continue. The failure to increase or maintain the number of visitors to our websites, our base of free members, or the failure to convince our free members to actively participate in our websites or services, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial results. Failure to maintain our standard pricing could have adverse effects on our financial results. Due to economic conditions and for competitive and other reasons, we have been offering a large percentage of discounted pricing plans on a promotional basis. In general, these discounted pricing plans offer a subscription term at a significant discount compared to the standard pricing for such subscription term. Any increases in the percentage of pay accounts under a discounted pricing plan and any increases in the level of the discounts will likely result in a decrease in subscription revenues and ARPU, in particular, if such increases continue. Although these discounted pricing plans, by their terms, renew at the then-current standard pricing for such subscription term upon the expiration of the initial term, there are no assurances as to the number of pay accounts that will renew at the then current-standard pricing or at all. We intend to continue offering discounted pricing plans in the future, and there are no assurances that the volume or level of the discounts offered during a period will not be higher than anticipated. Our continued use of discounted pricing plans has resulted in our becoming dependent on offering such plans in order to obtain new pay accounts and retain existing pay accounts and may result in our having to reduce our standard pricing, which would adversely impact our financial results. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMUNICATIONS SEGMENT Our business will suffer if we are unable to compete successfully. We compete with numerous providers of broadband services, as well as other dial-up Internet access providers. Our principal competitors for NetZero 4G mobile broadband and DSL services include, among others, local exchange carriers such as AT&T and Verizon, wireless and satellite service providers, and cable service providers. Our principal dial-up Internet access competitors include established online service and content providers, such as AOL and MSN, and independent national Internet service providers, such as EarthLink and its PeoplePC subsidiary. Dial-up Internet access services do not compete favorably with broadband services with respect to connection speed and do not have a significant, if any, price advantage over certain broadband services. Many broadband providers, including cable companies and local exchange carriers, bundle their offerings with telephone, entertainment or other services, which may result in lower prices than standalone services. Certain portions of the U.S., primarily rural areas, currently have limited or no access to broadband services. However, the U.S. government has indicated its intention to facilitate the provision of broadband services to such rural areas. Such expansion of the availability of broadband services will increase the competition for Internet access subscribers in such areas and will likely adversely affect our business. In addition to competition from broadband providers, competition among dial-up Internet access service providers is intense and neither our pricing nor our features provides us with a significant competitive 40 Table of Contents advantage, if any, over certain of our dial-up Internet access competitors. We expect that competition, particularly with respect to price, both for broadband, as well as dial-up Internet access services, will continue. We also expect that our dial-up Internet access subscriber base will continue to decrease, potentially at an increasing rate, and that our broadband services will not experience significant growth. In order to compete effectively against other dial-up Internet access providers, we may have to make significant revisions to our pricing and marketing strategies. For example, we may have to lower our introductory rates, offer additional free periods of service, or reduce the standard pricing of our services. Measures such as these would decrease our average revenue per dial-up Internet access pay account and may decrease our revenues. All of the foregoing risks would adversely affect the profitability of our dial-up Internet access services which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Revenues and profitability of our Communications segment are expected to decrease. Most of our Communications segment revenues and profits come from our dial-up Internet access services. Our dial-up Internet access pay accounts and revenues have been declining and are expected to continue to decline due to the continued maturation of the market for dial-up Internet access. Consumers continue to migrate to broadband access, primarily due to the faster connection and download speeds provided by broadband access. Advanced applications such as online gaming, music downloads and videos require greater bandwidth for optimal performance, which adds to the demand for broadband access. The pricing for basic broadband services has been declining as well, making it a more viable option for consumers. In addition, the popularity of accessing the Internet through tablets and mobile devices has been growing and may accelerate the migration of consumers away from dial-up Internet access. The number of dial-up Internet access pay accounts has been adversely impacted by both a decrease in the number of new pay accounts signing up for our services, as well as the impact of subscribers canceling their accounts, which we refer to as "churn." Churn has increased from time to time and may increase in the future. We expect our dial-up Internet access pay accounts to continue to decline. As a result of expected continuing decreases in our dial-up Internet access pay accounts and, potentially, ARPU, we expect that our Communications services revenues, advertising revenues and the profitability of this segment will continue to decline over time. The rate of decline in Communications services revenues has accelerated in some periods and may continue to accelerate. Although we have been reducing our expenses in order to manage the profitability of our Communications segment, we will not be able to continue making the same level of expense reductions in the future. In addition, we increased our marketing expenses in 2012 in connection with the launch of the NetZero 4G mobile broadband service, which is subject to a number of risks. Continued declines in Communications revenues, particularly if such declines accelerate, will materially and adversely impact the profitability of this segment. Our NetZero 4G mobile broadband service may not be commercially successful. We started offering a mobile broadband service under the NetZero brand in 2012. However, the new service is subject to a number of uncertainties, including unanticipated delays and expenses and technological or other problems on our part, as well as the third-party suppliers whose products and services are integral to the service. The new service also may not be accepted by consumers or commercially successful, especially given its dependence on Clearwire's limited coverage areas. We have been testing various marketing initiatives, including offering discounts on our devices, but there are no assurances that such initiatives will increase the number of accounts. Some of our prospective competitors have longer operating histories, greater name and brand recognition, larger user bases, wider coverage areas, and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, and marketing resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in growing the number of accounts in the 41 Table of Contents NetZero 4G mobile broadband service as planned, or that the service will be commercially successful. Delays, additional expenses, the failure to grow the number of accounts as planned, or the service's failure to be commercially successful, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our Internet access business is dependent on the availability of telecommunications services and compatibility with third-party systems and products. Our Internet access business substantially depends on the availability, capacity, affordability, reliability, and security of our telecommunications networks. Only a limited number of telecommunications providers offer the network and data services we currently require, and we purchase most of our telecommunications services from a few providers. In addition, our NetZero 4G mobile broadband service is entirely dependent upon services acquired from Clearwire and is subject to its limited coverage areas. Some of our telecommunications services are provided pursuant to short-term agreements that the providers can terminate or elect not to renew. In addition, some telecommunications providers may cease to offer network services for certain less populated areas, which would reduce the number of providers from which we may purchase services and may entirely eliminate our ability to purchase services for certain areas. If we are unable to maintain, renew or obtain new agreements with telecommunications providers, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our dial-up Internet access services also rely on their compatibility with other third-party systems, products and features, including operating systems. Incompatibility with third-party systems and products could adversely affect our ability to deliver our services or a user's ability to access our services and could also adversely impact the distribution channels for our services. Our services are dependent on dial-up modems and an increasing number of computer manufacturers, including certain manufacturers with whom we have distribution relationships, do not pre-load their new computers with dial-up modems, requiring the user to separately acquire a modem to access our services. There can be no assurance that, as the dial-up Internet access market declines and new technologies emerge, we will be able to continue to effectively distribute and deliver our services. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 