Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating us and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our Company, operating results, financial condition, stock price, and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” constitute “forward-looking statements.” Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors and uncertainties set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” A significant economic downturn could result in less demand from clients or otherwise negatively affect our clients, either of which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Demand for staffing services is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity. As economic activity slows down, hospitals and other healthcare entities tend to experience decreased attrition and reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees, resulting in decreased demand for our healthcare professionals. In times of economic downturn, permanent healthcare facility staff may be more inclined to work overtime, resulting in fewer available vacancies and less demand for our services. Fewer placement opportunities for our temporary healthcare professionals impairs our ability to recruit and place both temporary and permanent placement healthcare professionals and our revenues and profitability may decline as a result of this constricted demand and supply. Many healthcare facilities will utilize temporary healthcare professionals to accommodate an increase in hospital admissions. Alternatively, if hospital admissions decrease, due to reduced consumer spending affecting elective surgery volume, general unemployment causing an increase in under- and uninsured patients and other factors, the demand for our temporary healthcare professionals may decline. In addition, we may experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of patient occupancy and hospital admission downturns, negatively impacting our revenue and profitability. Additionally, an economic downturn could result in higher unemployment claims. As a result, a significant economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Recently general worldwide economic conditions have resulted in a deterioration in access to credit and capital markets, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, higher unemployment and inflation. As a result, in the fourth quarter of 2008 and beginning of 2009, we experienced a significant decrease in orders and increase in cancellations in travel nursing, the largest component of our largest business segment, and such trend may continue in the indeterminate future, as the current recession is projected to last at least throughout most of 2009. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our clients and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. businesses to further slow spending on our services. Furthermore, during challenging economic times, our clients may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery. If the economy or markets in which we operate continue to deteriorate, we may record additional charges related to restructuring costs and the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to continue to recruit and retain healthcare professionals for our healthcare staffing business at reasonable costs, it could increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business. We rely significantly on our ability to recruit and retain healthcare professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our hospital, healthcare facility clients and physician practice groups. We compete for healthcare staffing personnel with other temporary healthcare staffing companies and with hospitals, healthcare facilities and physician practice groups based on the quantity, diversity and quality of assignments offered, compensation packages and the benefits that we provide to our healthcare professionals. We rely on our human capital intensive, relationship-oriented approach and national infrastructure to enable us to compete in all aspects of our business, but particularly in the permanent physician staffing business. We must continually evaluate and expand our temporary and permanent healthcare professional network to serve the needs of our hospital, physician practice groups and other clients. Currently, there is a shortage of qualified nurses and certain allied healthcare professionals in the United States, significant competition exists for these personnel, and salaries and benefits have risen in recent years. However, high general unemployment levels may reduce the number of healthcare professionals willing to take on temporary assignments. We may be unable to continue to maintain or increase the number of temporary and permanent healthcare professionals that we recruit, decreasing the potential for growth of our business. Our ability to recruit and retain temporary and permanent healthcare professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide our healthcare professionals with assignments and placements that they view as attractive and to provide our temporary healthcare professionals with competitive wages and benefits, including health insurance and housing. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in any of these areas as the costs of attracting healthcare professionals and providing them with attractive benefit packages may be higher than we anticipate, or we may be unable to pass these costs on to our hospital and healthcare facility clients. If we are unable to increase the rates that we charge our hospital and healthcare facility clients to cover these costs, our profitability could decline. Moreover, if we are unable to recruit temporary and permanent healthcare professionals, the quality of our services to our hospital and healthcare facility clients may decline and, as a result, we could lose clients. Our operations may deteriorate if we are unable to continue to attract, develop and retain our sales and operations personnel. Our success is dependent upon the performance of our sales and operations personnel. The number of individuals who meet our qualifications for these positions is limited, and we may experience difficulty in attracting qualified candidates. In addition, we commit substantial resources to the training, development and support of our personnel. Competition for qualified sales personnel in the line of business in which we operate is 13 Table of Contents strong, and there is a risk that we may not be able to retain our sales personnel after we have expended the time and expense to recruit and train them. We operate in a highly competitive market and our success depends on our ability to remain competitive in obtaining and retaining hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients and demonstrating the value of our services. The temporary healthcare staffing business is highly competitive. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service staffing companies, specialized temporary staffing agencies and hospital systems that have developed their own interim staffing pools. Some of our competitors in the temporary nurse and locum tenens staffing sectors include Cross Country Healthcare, CHG Healthcare Services, Inc., On Assignment, and Jackson Healthcare Staffing. We believe that the primary competitive factors in obtaining and retaining hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients are identifying qualified healthcare professionals for specific job requirements, providing qualified employees in a timely manner, pricing services competitively and effectively monitoring the job performance of our employees and independent contractor professionals. Competition for hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients and temporary and permanent healthcare professionals may increase in the future related to these factors or due to a shortage of qualified healthcare professionals in the marketplace and, as a result, we may not be able to remain competitive. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenue or clients and our margins could decline, which could seriously harm our operating results and cause the price of our stock to decline. In addition, the development of alternative recruitment channels could lead our clients to bypass our services, which would also cause revenue and margins to decline. Our business depends upon our ability to secure and fill new orders from our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients because our temporary healthcare staffing business does not have long-term, exclusive or guaranteed contracts. We generally do not have long-term, exclusive or guaranteed order contracts for temporary healthcare staffing with our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to continually secure new contracts and orders from hospitals, healthcare facilities and physician practice groups and to fill those orders with our temporary healthcare professionals. Our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients are free to award contracts and place orders with our competitors and choose to use temporary healthcare professionals that our competitors offer them. Therefore, we must maintain positive relationships with our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients. If we fail to maintain positive relationships with them, we may be unable to generate new temporary healthcare professional orders and our business may be adversely affected. Some hospitals and healthcare facility clients choose to outsource this contract and order function to staffing associations owned by member healthcare facilities or, increasingly, to vendor management service companies that may act as intermediaries with our client facilities. These organizations may impact our ability to obtain new clients and maintain our existing client relationships by impeding our ability to access and contract directly with healthcare facility clients. We may also experience pricing pressure or incremental fees from these organizations that may negatively impact our revenue and profitability. Additionally, some of our hospital and healthcare facility clients are state and federal government agencies, where our ability to compete for new contracts and orders may be affected by government legislation or policy or constrained state and local government budgets impacting publicly-funded hospitals or reimbursement rates. 14 Table of Contents The demand for our services, and therefore the profitability of our business, may be adversely affected by changes in the staffing needs due to the adoption of alternative modes of healthcare delivery, staffing preferences of our healthcare facility clients and fluctuations in hospital admissions. The settings for the delivery of patient services are continually evolving and alternative modes of healthcare delivery, such as specialty hospitals and retail clinics, are becoming more prevalent. Demand for our services is affected by the public’s adoption and demand for such new modes of healthcare delivery, by our clients’ evolving needs in light of that demand, and by our ability to adapt to fill those needs. Demand for our temporary healthcare staffing services is also affected by the staffing needs and preferences of our healthcare facility clients, as well as by fluctuations in patient occupancy at our client healthcare facilities due to economic factors and seasonal fluctuations that are beyond our control. Historically, hospitals in certain geographical regions experience significant seasonal fluctuations in admissions, and needed to be able to adjust their staffing levels to accommodate the change in patient census; however, seasonal fluctuations have diminished in recent years, which may reduce future demand for our services. The ability of our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients to retain and increase the productivity of their permanent staff may affect the demand for our services. If our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients retain and increase the productivity of their permanent staff, their need for our services may decline. Higher permanent staff retention rates and increased productivity of permanent staff members could result in increased efficiencies, thereby reducing the demand for both our temporary staffing and permanent placement services, which could negatively impact our revenue and profitability. We operate in a regulated industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could reduce revenue and profitability and may impact our ability to grow and operate our business. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and regulations related to professional licensure, conduct of operations, costs and payment for services and payment for referrals. Because we provide services on a contract basis and are paid directly by our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients, we do not have any direct Medicare or managed care reimbursement risk. However, reimbursement changes in government programs could and do indirectly affect the demand and the prices paid for our services. For example, our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients could receive reduced reimbursements or be excluded from coverage, because of a change in the rates or conditions set by federal or state governments, as we have experienced in the radiology specialties. In addition, our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients could suffer civil and criminal penalties as could we as a government contractor and be excluded from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare programs for failure to comply with the laws and regulations. Such changes in federal reimbursement program laws and regulations, or the exclusion of our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients from such programs could adversely affect our clients which in turn could also adversely affect the prices and demand for our services. In addition, our exclusion as a government contractor could negatively impact our business. Similarly, state legislation exists, such as legislation in Massachusetts that limits the hourly rate paid to temporary nursing agencies for registered nurses, licensed practical nurses and certified nurses’ aides. While our service offerings are exempt, in part, from this Massachusetts regulation, similar regulations may be enacted in other states in which we operate, and as a result revenue and margins could decrease. Furthermore, third party payers, such as federal and state government and health maintenance organizations, significantly impact the prices charged for medical care. Failure by hospitals, healthcare facilities and physician practice groups to obtain full reimbursement from those third party payers could reduce the demand or the price paid for our services, or result in some client solvency issues or cessation of business. 15 Table of Contents We are also subject to certain laws and regulations applicable to healthcare staffing agencies and general temporary staffing services. Like all employers, we must also comply with various laws and regulations relating to pay practices, workers compensation and immigration. There is a risk that we could be subject to payment of additional wages, insurance and employment and payroll related taxes if certain of our corporate employees classified as exempt from overtime and minimum wage requirements are re-classified as non-exempt from overtime and minimum wage requirements. Because of the nature of our business, the impact of these laws and regulations may have a more pronounced effect on our business. These laws and regulations may also impede our ability to grow our operations. We primarily draw our supply of healthcare professionals from the United States, but international supply channels have represented a small temporary nurse supply source. Our utilization of this international supply channel is reliant upon an increase or exemption from current permanent immigrant visa quotas, which means that since late 2006, there have been virtually no permanent immigrant visas available for nurses overseas. These laws have significantly constricted our ability to place new international nurses on assignment in recent years. As a result of these quotas, there are delays ranging from three to five years for foreign-trained nurses from certain countries, such as India and the Philippines, to enter into the United States on a permanent immigrant visa. Additionally, we have incurred and will continue to incur additional legal and accounting expenses related to compliance with corporate governance and disclosure standards implemented by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. If we are found in non-compliance with these laws and regulations, damages, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions and cease and desist orders may be imposed, which would negatively impact our business and operations. The costs required to comply with these laws and regulations affecting our business reduces our overall profitability, and reduces the assets and resources available for utilization in the expansion of our business operations. Our profitability is impacted by our ability to leverage our cost structure. We have technology, operations and human capital infrastructures to support our existing business and contemplated growth. In the event that our business does not perform as expected, our inability to reduce these costs would impair our profitability. Additionally, if we are not able to capitalize on this infrastructure, our earnings growth rate will be negatively impacted. The variation in pricing of the healthcare facility contracts under which we place temporary and permanent healthcare professionals impacts our profitability. The pricing of our contracts with hospitals, healthcare facilities and physician practice groups may vary depending on circumstances, including geographic location, economic conditions and supply and demand factors. These pricing variables impact our gross margin and could result in decreased profitability if we are unable to renew existing accounts on economically favorable terms. We may not be able to successfully implement our strategic growth, acquisition and integration strategies. An effective growth management strategy is necessary to organically grow our current operations, and if we do not successfully execute on this growth strategy, our profitability could decline. We continue to explore strategic acquisition opportunities to supplement our organic growth strategy. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions which may prevent us from obtaining debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, our acquisition and integration strategy involves significant risks and uncertainties, including appropriate valuation of target companies, continuing severe liquidity issues in the credit markets, the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, difficulties integrating acquired personnel and corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies, and the diversion of management attention from existing operations. We may not be able to 16 Table of Contents fully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our own in an efficient and cost-effective manner, including implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies at the acquired business, and integration of each company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems. Acquisitions may also require significant expenditures of cash and other resources and assumption of debt that may ultimately negatively impact our overall financial performance. Difficulties in maintaining our management information and communications systems may negatively impact our business operations and as a result, our financial performance. Our ability to deliver our staffing services to our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients and manage our internal systems depends to a large extent upon our access to and the performance of our management information and communications systems. These systems also maintain accounting and financial information, which we depend upon to fulfill our financial reporting obligations. If these systems do not adequately support our operations, these systems are damaged or service is disrupted or if we are required to incur significant additional costs to repair, maintain or expand these systems, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Although we have risk mitigation measures, these systems, and our access to these systems, are not impervious to floods, fire, storms, or other natural disasters or service interruptions, and the loss of systems information could result in disruption to our business. The challenge to the classification of certain of our healthcare professionals as independent contractors could adversely impact our profitability. Although it is general industry standard to treat certain healthcare professionals, such as physicians, as independent contractors, there is a risk we could be subject to additional wage and insurance claims, and employment and payroll-related taxes if federal or state taxing authorities re-classify our independent contractor physicians, nurse practitioners, physician assistants or certified registered nurse anesthetists as employees, which would significantly reduce our profitability. In addition, many states have laws which prohibit non-physician owned companies from employing physicians, referred to as the “corporate practice of medicine.” If our independent contractor physicians are classified as employees, we could be found in violation of state laws that prohibit the corporate practice of medicine, which would have a substantial negative impact on our profitability. The impact of medical malpractice and other claims asserted against us could subject us to substantial liabilities. In recent years, our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients are subject to a number of legal actions alleging malpractice or related legal theories. Because our temporary and permanent healthcare professionals provide medical care and we recruit and assist in credentialing of these healthcare professionals, claims may be brought against us and our healthcare professionals relating to the recruitment and qualification of these healthcare professionals and the quality of medical care provided by our temporary healthcare professionals while on assignment or after placement at our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients. We and the healthcare professional are at times named in these lawsuits regardless of our contractual obligations, the competency of the healthcare professional, the standard of care provided by the healthcare professional or the quality of service that we provided. In some instances, we are required to indemnify hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients contractually against some or all of these potential legal actions. Also, because some of our temporary healthcare professionals are our employees, we may be subject to various employment claims and contractual disputes regarding the terms of a temporary healthcare professional’s employment. Because we are in the business of placing our temporary healthcare professionals in the workplaces of other companies and through our recruitment process outsourcing service, of assisting clients in hiring, we are subject to possible claims by healthcare professionals alleging discrimination, sexual harassment and other similar activities by our hospital and healthcare facility clients or their agents. We maintain a policy for employment practices coverage. However, the cost of defending such claims, even if groundless, could be 17 Table of Contents substantial and the associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and place qualified individuals in the future. We maintain various types of insurance coverage, including professional liability, workers compensation and employment practices, through insurance carriers, and/or we self-insure for these claims through accruals for retention reserves. We may experience increased insurance costs and reserve accruals and may not be able to pass on all or any portion of increased insurance costs to our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients, thereby reducing our profitability. Our insurance coverage and reserve accruals may not be sufficient to cover all claims against us, and we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. Terrorist threats or attacks may disrupt or adversely affect our business operations. Our business operations may be interrupted or adversely impacted in the United States and abroad in the event of a terrorist attack or heightened security alerts. Our temporary healthcare professionals may become reluctant to travel and may decline assignments based upon the perceived risk of terrorist activity, which would reduce our revenue and profitability. In addition, terrorist activity or threats may impede our access to our management and information systems resulting in loss of revenue. We do not maintain insurance coverage against terrorist attacks. If we are unable to execute our business strategy, our profitability, cash flow and, consequently, our compliance with debt covenants and our liquidity could be negatively impacted. Our success is dependent on our ability to execute our business strategy, which necessarily involves the successful operation of a number of integral components and business objectives. Our ability to execute these business objectives is dependent upon a sufficient cash flow and capital structure to support the business. If general economic conditions or other factors result in our margins or cash flow being significantly impaired, our compliance with our debt covenants could be negatively impacted. Our credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to operate below a maximum leverage ratio and above a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with these covenants will depend in part upon our reported financial results, which as indicated above are dependent on our ability to execute our business strategy. If we are not in compliance with such covenants, we would be in default under our credit facility, the lender could call the debt and we could be unable to secure further borrowing. The loss of key officers and management personnel could adversely affect our ability to remain competitive. We believe that the success of our business strategy and our ability to maintain our recent levels of profitability depends on the continued employment of our senior management team. We have an employment agreement only with Susan R. Nowakowski, our President and Chief Executive Officer, though May 4, 2010, which is renewable on an annual basis. If members of our senior management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We have valuable brand identities we have developed and acquired, and a substantial amount of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles on our balance sheet that may have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in the event that we are required to recognize an impairment to goodwill or indefinite lived intangibles. We have invested substantial amounts in acquiring, developing and maintaining our brands, and our success depends on our ability to maintain our brand identities for existing services and effectively build up brand image for new services. We cannot assure that additional expenditures and our continuing commitment to marketing will have the desired impact on our brands’ value. We have goodwill on our balance sheet, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets and indefinite lived 18 Table of Contents intangibles acquired. SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, requires that goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles be reviewed annually for impairment. In the event impairment is identified, a charge to earnings would be recorded. Although an impairment charge to earnings for goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles would not affect our cash flow, it would decrease our earnings or increase our losses, as the case may be, and our stock price could be adversely affected. We have reviewed our goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles for impairment in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, and have not identified any impairment to goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles as of October 31, 2008, our annual impairment testing date. In addition, due to the downturn in the economic environment, we performed additional impairment testing as of December 31, 2008, and no impairment was identified. However, if our stock price continues to decline, which will cause the further deterioration of the market value of our equity, we may have to perform additional impairment testing which could result in an impairment charge in 2009. We have a substantial accrual for self-insured retentions on our balance sheet, and any significant adverse adjustments in these accruals may have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses. We maintain accruals for self-insured retentions for professional liability, health insurance, workers compensation and other employment practices related matters on our balance sheet. Generally, increases to these accruals do not immediately affect our cash flow, but a significant increase to these self-insured retention accruals may decrease our earnings. We determine the adequacy of our self-insured retention accruals by evaluating our historical experience and trends, related to both insurance claims and payments, information provided to us by our insurance brokers, attorneys and third party administrators, as well as industry experience and trends. If such information indicates that our accruals are overstated or understated, we reduce or provide for additional accruals, as appropriate. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 