Item 1A. Risk Factors: RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY We have been profitable in only eight quarters and may incur losses in the future, and our limited operating history makes our future financial performance difficult to assess. We were formed in January 1999 and therefore have a limited operating history upon which to evaluate our operations and future prospects. We have had a history of losses from inception through the first half of 2003 and at December 31, 2005 had an accumulated deficit of $31.7 million. While we were profitable in the third and fourth quarters of 2003, the second, third and fourth quarters of 2004 and the first, third and fourth quarters of 2005, we may not be profitable in future quarters or on an annual basis. While we experienced a net loss in the second quarter of 2005 as a result of a one-time charge relating to the settlement of a threatened class action lawsuit, we would have been profitable excluding the effect of this settlement. Our business model has evolved, and we have only recently achieved significant revenues. We may incur additional expenses with the expectation that our revenues will grow in the future, which may not occur. As a result, we could experience budgeting and cash flow management problems, unexpected fluctuations in our results of operations and other difficulties, any of which could harm our ability to achieve or maintain profitability, increase the volatility of the market price of our common stock or harm our ability to raise additional capital. Additionally, as a newly public company we must work towards compliance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as those requirements become applicable to us, and we may incur costs in connection with that effort that are significantly higher than anticipated, which could negatively impact our profitability. We expect that we will continue to increase our expenses, including marketing and business development expenses and expenses incurred as a result of increasing the number of agents we employ. As we grow our business in existing markets and expand to new markets, we cannot guarantee our business strategies will be successful or that our revenues will ever increase sufficiently to achieve and maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our business model requires access to real estate listing services provided by third parties that we do not control, and the demand for our services may be reduced if our ability to display listings on our website is restricted. A key component of our business model is that through our website we offer clients access to, and the ability to search, real estate listings posted on the MLSs in the markets we serve. Most large metropolitan areas in the United States have at least one MLS, though there is no national MLS. The homes in each MLS are listed voluntarily by its members, who are licensed real estate brokers. The information distributed in an MLS allows brokers to cooperate in the identification of buyers for listed properties. 18 Table of Contents If our access to one or more MLS databases were restricted or terminated, our service could be adversely affected and our business may be harmed. Because participation in an MLS is voluntary, a broker or group of brokers may decline to post their listings to the existing MLS and instead create a new proprietary real estate listing service. If a broker or group of brokers created a separate real estate listing database, we may be unable to obtain access to that private listing service on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. As a result, the percentage of available real estate listings that our clients would be able to search using our website would be reduced, perhaps significantly, thereby making our services less attractive to potential clients. Additionally, we operate a virtual office website, or VOW, which is a password protected website that allows us to show comprehensive MLS data directly to consumers without their having to visit an agent. In late 2002, the National Association of Realtors, or NAR, the dominant trade organization in the residential real estate industry, adopted a mandatory policy for NAR-affiliated MLSs regarding the use and display of MLS listings data on VOWs. Under the NAR policy, individual MLSs affiliated with NAR, which includes the vast majority of MLSs in the United States, were required to implement their own individual VOW policies consistent with the NAR, but NAR extended the deadline for the implementation of its rules at least three times during an investigation by the antitrust division of the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, into NAR’s policy that dictates how brokers can display other brokers’ property listings on their websites. In September 2005, NAR replaced its VOW policy with an Internet Listings Display, or ILD, policy containing some of the same or similar features of its former VOW policy, and the DOJ responded by immediately filing a lawsuit in federal court against NAR challenging the ILD policy. NAR has postponed the deadline for the implementation of its ILD rules by its member MLSs pending resolution of that lawsuit. We presently do not know whether or when the NAR rules will be implemented in their current form or in a revised form, if at all. Once the individual MLSs implement the ILD policy, the NAR policy currently provides that member brokerages will have up to 90 days to comply with the policy. The NAR policy is designed to provide structure to the individual MLS policies concerning the display of listing information through the internet, subject to a number of areas in which the individual MLSs may tailor the policy to meet their local needs. One NAR policy provision with which the individual MLSs must adhere, once required to be implemented, is known as an “opt-out.” This provision creates a mechanism for individual brokers to prevent their listings data from being displayed by competitors on their websites but not by brick-and-mortar competitors at their offices by other means, which the DOJ has alleged is a mechanism designed to chill competition by internet-based realtors. A few of the MLSs of which we are a member, as well as at least one of the state Association of REALTORS® of which we are a member, had adopted VOW policies with opt-out provisions, but, to our knowledge, to date no members or participants of any of those MLSs have exercised such an opt-out right. We do not know of any MLSs which have adopted the new ILD policy with its opt-out provisions. Should any such opt-outs right be exercised, it could restrict our ability to display comprehensive MLS home listings data to our consumers, which is a key part of our business model. Should our ability to display MLS listings information on our website be significantly restricted, it may reduce demand for our services and lead to a decrease in the number of residential real estate transactions completed by our ZipAgents, as well as increase our costs of ensuring compliance with such restrictions. Our business could be harmed by transitions in the real estate markets and economic events that are out of our control and may be difficult to predict. The success of our business depends in part on the health of the residential real estate market, which traditionally has been subject to cyclical economic swings. The purchase of residential real estate is a significant transaction for most consumers, and one which can be delayed or terminated based on the availability of discretionary income. Economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates, adverse tax policies, lower availability of credit, increased unemployment, lower consumer confidence, lower wage and salary levels, war or terrorist attacks, natural disaster, oil price spikes or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could adversely affect the demand for residential real estate and would harm our business. Also, if interest rates increase significantly, homeowners’ ability to purchase a new home or a higher priced home may be reduced as higher monthly payments would make housing less affordable. In addition, these conditions 19 Table of Contents could lead to a decline in new listings, transaction volume and sales prices, any of which would harm our operating results. Since early September of 2005 we have experienced a significant increase in the available inventory of homes for sale in many of our markets, as well as an increase in the amount of time listings are taking to sell. Pricing increases have also slowed, and some markets have shown declines in median selling prices over this period. Nationally, sales of existing homes fell 5.2% year-over-year in January 2006 to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.6 million, the lowest in nearly two years. This represented the fifth month in a row that sales have declined. In our opinion, these data points suggest the housing market is in a period of transition, with more power shifting to buyers from sellers, which may impair our ability to grow the Company and our agent productivity. Our business model is new and unproven, and we cannot guarantee our future success. Our Internet-enabled residential real estate brokerage service is a relatively new and unproven business model. Our business model differs significantly from that of a traditional real estate brokerage firm in several ways, including our heavy reliance on the Internet and technology and our employee agent model. The success of our business model depends on our ability to achieve higher transaction volumes at an overall lower cost per transaction in order to offset the costs associated with our technology, employee benefits, marketing and advertising expenses and discounts and rebates. If we are unable to efficiently acquire clients and maintain agent productivity in excess of industry averages, our ZipAgents may close fewer transactions and our net revenues could suffer as a result. Also, given that our agent employee model is uncommon in the real estate industry, our compensation structure could be subject to legal challenge, such as the litigation discussed in Part I, Item 3 of this report. In addition, our agents generally earn a lower per transaction commission than a traditional independent contractor agent. If we are unsuccessful in providing our agents with more opportunities to close transactions than under the traditional model, our ability to hire and retain qualified real estate agents would be harmed, which would in turn significantly harm our business. If we fail to recruit, hire and retain qualified agents, we may be unable to service our clients and our growth could be impaired. Our business requires us to hire employees who are licensed real estate agents, and our strategy is based on consistently and rapidly growing our team of ZipAgents. Competition for qualified agents is intense, particularly in the markets in which we compete, and retention is an industry-wide issue. While there are many licensed real estate agents in our markets and throughout the country, historically we have had difficulties in recruiting and retaining properly qualified licensed agents due particularly to agent discomfort with using technology and being actively managed by an employer. In addition, our lower per transaction agent commission model may be unattractive to certain higher performing agents. If we are unable to recruit, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified licensed real estate agents, we may be unable to service our clients properly and grow our business. Historically we have experienced a high degree of agent turnover, most of which occurs in the first few months after commencing employment. This turnover has required us to expend a substantial amount of time and money to replace agents who have left as we have been growing our business. If this situation worsens, our rate of expansion into new markets could be slowed and we will continue to employ a significantly higher number of new agents with less experience operating in our business model, which could cause us to be less effective at expanding our market share in our existing markets and entering new markets. Furthermore, we rely on federal and state exemptions from minimum wage and fair labor standards laws for our ZipAgents, who are compensated solely through commissions. Such exemptions may not continue to be available, or we may not qualify for such exemptions, which could subject us to penalties and damages for non-compliance. Also, some states, such as California, have enacted laws requiring the reimbursement of employee expenses, which caused us to change our compensation practices in 2005. If similar exemptions are not available in states where we desire to expand our operations or if they cease to be available in the states where we currently operate, or if we are so required by other state laws, we may need to modify our agent 20 Table of Contents compensation structure in such states, which could cause our compensation practices to be less attractive to agents or more expensive to the Company. Our failure to effectively manage the growth of our ZipAgents and our information and control systems could adversely affect our ability to service our clients. As our operations have expanded, we have experienced rapid growth in our headcount from 1,059 total employees, including 914 ZipAgents, at December 31, 2004 to 1,556 total employees, including 1,366 ZipAgents, at December 31, 2005. We expect to continue to increase headcount in the future, particularly the number of ZipAgents. Our rapid growth has demanded, and will continue to demand, substantial resources and attention from our management. We will need to continue to hire additional qualified agents and improve and maintain our technology to properly manage our growth. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our client service and responsiveness could suffer and our costs could increase, which could negatively affect our brand and operating results. As we grow, our success will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information and control systems on a timely basis, together with maintaining effective cost controls. This ability is particularly critical as we implement new systems and controls to help us comply with the more stringent requirements of being a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require management to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Effective internal control over financial reporting is required by law and is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Effective disclosure controls and procedures are required by law and are necessary for us to file complete, accurate and timely reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud or to file complete, accurate and timely reports under the Securities Exchange Act could harm our business, harm our reputation or result in a decline in or stock price. We are continuing to evaluate and, where appropriate, enhance our systems, procedures and internal controls. If our systems, procedures or controls are not adequate to support our operations and reliable, accurate and timely financial and other reporting, we may not be able to successfully satisfy regulatory and investor scrutiny, offer our services and implement our business plan. Our operating results are subject to seasonality and vary significantly among quarters during each calendar year, making meaningful comparisons of successive quarters difficult. The residential real estate market traditionally has experienced seasonality, with a peak in the spring and summer seasons and a decrease in activity during the fall and winter seasons. Revenues in each quarter are significantly affected by activity during the prior quarter, given the typical 30- to 45-day time lag between contract execution and closing. Historically, this seasonality has caused our revenues, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities to be lower in the first and fourth quarters and higher in the second and third quarters of each year. Factors affecting the timing of real estate transactions that can cause our quarterly results to fluctuate include: • timing of widely observed holidays and vacation periods and availability home buyers and sellers, real estate agents and related service providers during these periods; • a desire to relocate prior to the start of the school year; • inclement weather which can influence consumers’ desire or ability to visit properties; • timing of employment compensation changes, such as raises and bonuses; • the time between entry into a purchase contract for real estate and closing of the transaction; and • the levels of housing inventory available for sale. 21 Table of Contents We expect our revenues to continue to be subject to these seasonal fluctuations, which, combined with our recent growth, make it difficult to compare successive quarters. Interest rates have been at historic lows for the past several years, and increases in interest rates have the potential to negatively impact the housing market. When interest rates rise, all other things being equal, housing becomes less affordable, since at a given income level people cannot qualify to borrow as much principal, or given a fixed principal amount they will be faced with higher monthly payments. This result may mean that fewer people will be able to afford homes at prevailing prices, potentially leading to fewer transactions or reductions in home prices in certain regions, depending also on the relevant supply-demand dynamics of those markets. Since we operate in only 16 markets around the country, it is possible that we could experience a more pronounced impact than we would experience if our operations were more diversified. Should we experience softening in our markets and not be able to offset the potential negative market influences on price and volume by increasing our transaction volume through market share growth, our financial results could be negatively impacted. If consumers do not continue to use the Internet as a tool in their residential real estate buying or selling process, we may be unable to attract new clients and our growth and financial results may suffer. We rely substantially on our website and web-based marketing for our client lead generation. As the residential real estate business has traditionally been characterized by personal, face-to-face relationships between buyers and sellers and their agents, our success will depend to a certain extent on the willingness of consumers to increase their use of online services in the real estate sales and purchasing process. In addition, our success will depend on consumers visiting our website early in their selling or buying process so that we can interface with potential clients before they have engaged a real estate agent to represent them in their transactions. If we are unable to convince visitors to our website to transact business with us, our ZipAgents will have fewer opportunities to represent clients in residential real estate transactions and our net revenues could suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to successfully expand into additional real estate markets. We currently operate in 16 markets, including 14 of the 25 most populous U.S. metropolitan statistical areas. A part of our business strategy is to grow our business by entering into additional real estate markets and, to this end, we commenced operations in Las Vegas in April 2005, in Houston in June 2005, in Miami, Florida in October 2005 and in Tampa, Florida, in February 2006. Key elements of this expansion include our ability to identify strategically attractive real estate markets and to successfully establish our brand in those markets. We consider many factors when selecting a new market to enter, including: • the economic conditions and demographics of a market; • the general prices of real estate in a market; • Internet use in a market; • competition within a market from local and national brokerage firms; • rules and regulations governing a market; • the ability and capacity of our organization to manage expansion into additional geographic areas, additional headcount and increased organizational complexity; • the existence of local MLSs; and • state laws governing cash rebates and other regulatory restrictions. Before opening Las Vegas we had not entered a new geographic market since July 2000 and have limited experience expanding into and operating in multiple markets, managing multiple sales regions or addressing the factors described above. In addition, this expansion could involve significant initial start-up costs. We expect that significant revenues from new markets will be achieved, if ever, only after we have been operating 22 Table of Contents in that market for some time and begun to build market awareness of our services. As a result, geographic expansion is likely to significantly increase our expenses and cause fluctuations in our operating results. In addition, if we are unable to successfully penetrate these new markets, we may continue to incur costs without achieving the expected revenues, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations. Unless we develop, maintain and protect a strong brand identity, our business may not grow and our financial results may suffer. We believe a strong brand is a competitive advantage in the residential real estate industry because of the fragmentation of the market and the large number of agents and brokers available to the consumer. Because our brand is relatively new, we currently do not have strong brand identity. We believe that establishing and maintaining brand identity and brand loyalty is critical to attracting new clients. In order to attract and retain both clients and employees, and respond to competitive pressures, we expect to increase our marketing and business development expenditures to develop, maintain and enhance our brand in the future. We plan to continue conducting and refining online, print and direct mail advertising and possibly to test and conduct radio, outdoor and/or television advertising campaigns. We plan to increase our online advertising expenditures in the near future while maintaining our offline advertising expenditures at current levels. While we intend to enhance our marketing and advertising activities in order to attract and retain both clients and employees, these activities may not have a material positive impact on our brand identity. In addition, developing our brand will depend on our ability to provide a high-quality consumer experience and high quality service, which we may not do successfully. If we are unable to develop, maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to attract new clients and employees or successfully expand our operations will be harmed. We have numerous competitors, many of which have valuable industry relationships and access to greater resources than we do. The residential real estate market is highly fragmented, and we have numerous competitors, many of which have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger client bases, and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some of those competitors are large national brokerage firms or franchisors, such as Prudential Financial, Inc., RE/ MAX International Inc. and Cendant Corporation, which owns the Century 21, Coldwell Banker and ERA franchise brands, a large corporate relocation business and NRT Incorporated, the largest brokerage in the United States. NRT owns and operates brokerages that are typically affiliated with one of the franchise brands owned by Cendant. We are also subject to competition from local or regional firms, as well as individual real estate agents. We also compete or may in the future compete with various online services, such as InterActiveCorp and its LendingTree unit, HouseValues, Inc., HomeGain, Inc., Homestore, Inc. and its Realtor.com affiliate, Zillow and Yahoo! Inc. that also look to attract and monetize home buyers and sellers using the Internet. Homestore is affiliated with NAR, the National Association of Home Builders, or NAHB, and a number of major MLSs, which may provide Homestore with preferred access to listing information and other competitive advantages. In addition, our technology-focused business model is a relatively new approach to the residential real estate market and many consumers may be hesitant to choose us over more established brokerage firms employing traditional techniques. Some of our competitors are able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, make more attractive offers to potential agents and clients and respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies. Over the past several years there has been a slow but steady decline in average commissions charged in the real estate brokerage industry, with the average commission percentage decreasing from 5.44% in 2000 to 5.08% in 2004 according to REAL Trends. Some of our competitors with greater resources may be able to better withstand the short- or long-term financial effects of this trend. In addition, the barriers to entry to providing an Internet-enabled real estate service are low, making it possible for current or new competitors to adopt certain aspects of our business model, including offering comprehensive MLS data to clients via the Internet, thereby reducing our competitive advantage. We may not be able to compete successfully for clients and agents, and increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Changes in federal and state real estate laws and regulations, and rules of industry organizations such as the National Association of REALTORS®, could adversely affect our business. The real estate industry is heavily regulated in the United States, including regulation under the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, state and local licensing laws and regulations and federal and state advertising laws. In addition to existing laws and regulations, states and industry participants and regulatory organizations could enact legislation, regulatory or other policies in the future, which could restrict our activities or significantly increase our compliance costs. Moreover, the provision of real estate services over the Internet is a new and evolving business, and legislators, regulators and industry participants may advocate additional legislative or regulatory initiatives governing the conduct of our business. If existing laws or regulations are amended or new laws or regulations are adopted, we may need to comply with additional legal requirements and incur significant compliance costs, or we could be precluded from certain activities. Because we operate through our website, state and local governments other than where the subject property is located may attempt to regulate our activities, which could significantly increase our compliance costs and limit certain of our activities. In addition, industry organizations, such as NAR and other state and local organizations, can impose standards or other rules affecting the manner in which we conduct our business. As mentioned above, NAR has adopted rules that, if implemented, could result in a reduction in the number of home listings that could be viewed on our website. NAR has extended the deadline for the implementation of its rules pending the resolution of a lawsuit filed in federal court by the antitrust division of the U.S. Department of Justice challenging, among other things, NAR’s proposed ILD policy that dictates how brokers can display other brokers’ property listings on their websites. We presently do not know whether or when the NAR rules will be implemented in their current form or in a revised form, if at all. The implementation of the rules will not limit our access to listing information, but could limit the display of listing information to our clients through our website in the manner we currently utilize, as well as increase our costs of ensuring compliance with such rules. Any significant lobbying or related activities, either of governmental bodies or industry organizations, required to respond to current or new initiatives in connection with our business could substantially increase our operating costs and harm our business. We derive a significant portion of our leads through third parties, and if any of our significant lead generation relationships are terminated, impaired or become more expensive, our ability to attract new clients and grow our business may be adversely affected. We generate leads for our ZipAgents through many sources, including leads from third parties with which we have only non-exclusive, short-term agreements that are generally terminable on little or no notice and with no penalties. Our largest third-party lead source, Homegain, Inc., which competes with us for online customer acquisition, generated approximately 29% and 21% of our leads during 2005 and 2004, respectively. In addition, during the third quarter of 2004 our exclusive co-branded relationship which we had in four markets with one third-party lead source, Yahoo! Inc., ended, effective July 31, 2004. Leads from this source accounted for approximately 8% of our leads and approximately 8% of our net revenues during 2004. These leads were inexpensive relative to those generated from competing sources, although they also were characterized by a lower conversion rate than is typical from our other sources. As a result, our lead replacement strategy delivered fewer leads to the agents in the areas impacted by the termination of the Yahoo! co-branded relationship but with those leads characterized by what we believe to be higher conversion potential based upon historical experience. Should this replacement strategy not be successful, or any of our other lead generation relationships become materially more expensive such that we could not obtain substitute sources on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new clients and grow our business may be impaired. Our business may also be impaired to the extent that state laws or NAR or MLS regulations make it more difficult or expensive for lead generators to provide us with sufficient leads. Our ability to expand our business may be limited by state laws governing cash rebates to home buyers. A significant component of our value proposition to our home buyer clients is a cash rebate provided to the buyer at closing. Currently, our clients who are home buyers represent a substantial majority of our business and revenues. Certain states, such as Alaska, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Jersey, Oklahoma, 24 Table of Contents Oregon and Tennessee, may presently prohibit sharing any commissions with, or providing rebates to, clients who are not licensed real estate agents. In addition, other states may limit or restrict our cash rebate program as currently structured, including Missouri and New York. Should we decide to expand into any of these states, we may have to adjust our pricing structure or refrain from offering rebates to buyers in these states. Moreover, we cannot predict whether alternative approaches will be cost effective or easily marketable to prospective clients. The failure to enter into these markets, or others that adopt similar restrictions, or to successfully attract clients in these markets, could harm our business. We may be unable to integrate our technology with each MLS on a cost-effective basis, which may harm our operating results and adversely affect our ability to service clients. Each MLS is operated independently and is run on its own technology platform. As a result, we must constantly modify our technology to successfully interact with each independent MLS in order to maintain access to that MLS’s home listings information. In addition, when a new MLS is created, we must customize our technology to work with that new system. These activities require constant attention and significant resources. We may be unable to successfully interoperate with the MLSs without significantly increasing our engineering costs, which would increase our operating expenses without a related increase in net revenues and cause our operating results to suffer. We may also be unable to interoperate with the MLSs at all, which may adversely affect the demand for our services. If we fail to comply with real estate brokerage laws and regulations, we may incur significant financial penalties or lose our license to operate. Due to the geographic scope of our operations and the nature of the real estate services we perform, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. For example, we are required to maintain real estate brokerage licenses in each state in which we operate and to designate individual licensed brokers of record. In some states, these licenses are personal to the broker. If we fail to maintain our licenses, lose the services of our designated broker of record or conduct brokerage activities without a license, we may be required to pay fines or return commissions received, our licenses may be suspended or we may be subject to other civil and/or criminal penalties. As we expand into new markets, we will need to obtain and maintain the required brokerage licenses and comply with the applicable laws and regulations of these markets, which may be different from those to which we are accustomed, may be difficult to obtain and will increase our compliance costs. In addition, because the size and scope of real estate sales transactions have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty and cost of compliance with the numerous state licensing regimes and possible losses resulting from non-compliance have increased. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, the possible loss of real estate brokerage licenses or litigation by government agencies or affected clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, and may limit our ability to expand into new markets. We may have liabilities in connection with real estate brokerage activities. As a licensed real estate broker, we and our licensed employees are subject to statutory due diligence, disclosure and standard-of-care obligations. In the ordinary course of business we and our employees are subject to litigation from parties involved in transactions for alleged violations of these obligations. We self-insure some of this risk and, as we expand our business to include larger deals, we may not be able to obtain third party insurance on these larger deals with attractive terms. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our employees who become subject to litigation arising out of our business activities, including for claims related to the negligence of those employees. An adverse outcome in any such litigation could negatively impact our reputation and harm our business. We may be subject to liability for the Internet content that we publish. As a publisher of online content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of the material that we publish or distribute. Such claims may include the posting of confidential data, erroneous listings or listing information and the 25 Table of Contents erroneous removal of listings. These types of claims have been brought successfully against the providers of online services in the past and could be brought against us or others in our industry. In addition, we may face liability if a MLS member or participant utilizes an opt-out provision, as previously discussed, and we fail to comply with that requirement. These claims, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation, business and financial condition. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover claims of these types or may be inadequate to protect us for all liability that we may incur. We monitor and evaluate the use of our website by our registered users, which could raise privacy concerns. Visitors to our website that register with us receive access to home listing and related information that we do not make available to unregistered users. As part of the registration process, our registered users consent to our use of information we gather from their use of our website, such as the geographic areas in which they search for homes, the price range of homes they view, their activities while on our website and other similar information. They also provide us with personal information such as telephone numbers and email addresses. While our registered users consent to our internal use of this information, if we were to use this information outside the scope of their consent or otherwise fail to keep this information confidential from third parties, including our former agents, we may be subject to legal claims or government action and our reputation and business could be harmed. While we do not share website use and other personal information with any third parties, except with our clients’ consent to third parties involved in the transaction process, concern among consumers regarding our use of personal information gathered from visitors to our website could cause them not to register with us. This would reduce the number of leads we derive from our website. Because our website is our primary client acquisition tool, any resistance by consumers to register on our website would harm our business and results of operations, and could cause us to alter our business practices or incur significant expenses to educate consumers regarding the use we make of information. We may need to change the manner in which we conduct our business if government regulation of the Internet increases. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet could adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. In addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on us. Laws and regulations directly applicable to communications or commerce over the Internet are becoming more prevalent. For example, both the U.S. government and the State of California have enacted Internet laws regarding privacy and sharing of customer information with third parties. Laws applicable to the Internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation apply to the Internet. In addition, because each state in which we do business requires us to be a licensed real estate broker, and residents of states in which we do not do business could potentially access our website, changes in Internet regulation could lead to situations in which we are considered to “operate” or “do business” in such states. This could result in potential claims or regulatory action. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations, we may not be able to differentiate our services from traditional competitors and may not attract a sufficient number of clients for our business to be successful. Our reputation and client and agent service offerings may be harmed by system failures and computer viruses. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain clients and agents. Our network infrastructure is currently co-located at a single facility in Sunnyvale, California and we do not currently operate a back-up facility. As a result, any system failure or service outage at this primary facility would result in a loss of service for the duration of the failure or outage. 26 Table of Contents Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic, may significantly delay response times or even cause our system to fail resulting in the unavailability of our Internet platform. For example, in 2005 we experienced an unscheduled outage that lasted approximately 12 hours. During this period our clients and prospective clients were unable to access our website or receive notifications of new listings. While we have taken measures to prevent unscheduled outages, outages may occur in the future. In addition, our systems and operations are vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to certain events beyond our control, including natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fire and flood, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Our network infrastructure is located in the San Francisco Bay area, which is susceptible to earthquakes and has, in the past, experienced power shortages and outages, any of which could result in system failures and service outages. We may not be able to expand our network infrastructure, either on our own or through use of third party hosting systems or service providers, on a timely basis sufficient to meet demand. Any interruption, delay or system failure could result in client and financial losses, litigation or other consumer claims and damage to our reputation. Our business is geographically concentrated, which makes us more susceptible to business interruption and financial loss due to natural disasters, inclement weather, economic or market conditions or other regional events outside of our control. Presently, our business is conducted principally in a few states in the western United States, especially California, and along the eastern seaboard. For example, we derived approximately 52% of our revenues in the year ended December 31, 2005 in the state of California. In addition, our servers and other technology infrastructure are located principally in the state of California. Our geographic concentration makes us as a whole more vulnerable to the effects of regional disasters in these areas, such as earthquakes, harsh weather, economic or market conditions or other events outside of our control. These events could cause us to sustain a business interruption or other financial loss that would be greater than if our business were more dispersed geographically. Our intellectual property rights are valuable and our failure to protect those rights could adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property rights, including existing and future patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and copyrights, are and will continue to be valuable and important assets of our business. We believe that our proprietary ZAP technology and ZipNotify, as well as our ability to interoperate with multiple MLSs and our other technologies and business practices, are competitive advantages and that any duplication by competitors would harm our business. We have taken measures to protect our intellectual property, but these measures may not be sufficient or effective. For example, we seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. Intellectual property laws and contractual restrictions may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter others from developing similar technologies. In addition, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, including our patented technology. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights disputes, which could divert management attention, be costly to defend and require us to limit our service offerings. Our business depends on the protection and utilization of our intellectual property. Other companies may develop or acquire intellectual property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to provide our products and services. One or more of these companies, which could include our competitors, could make claims alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could significantly divert management resources and attention. 27 Table of Contents Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. If we were unable to successfully defend against such claims, we may have to: • pay damages; • stop using the technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights; • seek a license for the infringing technology; or • develop alternative non-infringing technology. If we have to obtain a license for the infringing technology, it may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Developing alternative non-infringing technology could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop alternative technology for the infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings. Any of these results could reduce our ability to compete effectively, and harm our business and results of operations. If we fail to attract and retain our key personnel, our ability to meet our business goals will be impaired and our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. In particular, our success depends on the continued contributions of Eric A. Danziger, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior level sales, operations, marketing, technology and financial officers. Our business plan was developed in large part by our senior level officers and its implementation requires their skills and knowledge. None of our officers or key employees has an employment agreement, and their employment is at will. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our executives. We intend to evaluate acquisitions or investments in complementary technologies and businesses and we may not realize the anticipated benefits from, and may have to pay substantial costs related to, any acquisitions or investments that we undertake. As part of our business strategy, we plan to evaluate acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary technologies and businesses. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future or be able to make these acquisitions on a commercially reasonable basis, or at all. If we complete an acquisition or investment, we may not realize the benefits we expect to derive from the transaction. Any future acquisitions and investments would have several risks, including: • our inability to successfully integrate acquired technologies or operations; • diversion of management’s attention; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities; • expenses related to amortization of intangible assets; • risks associated with operating a business or in a market in which we have little or no prior experience; • potential write offs of acquired assets; • loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and • our inability to recover the costs of acquisitions or investments. Accounting for employee stock options using the fair value method, could significantly reduce our net income in future periods. In December 2004, the FASB issued its final standard on accounting for share-based payments, SFAS 123R (revised 2004), that requires companies to expense the value of employee stock options and similar awards. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission amended the compliance dates and, 28 Table of Contents accordingly, we will be required to record an expense for our stock-based compensation plans using the fair value method beginning on January 1, 2006. This expense will exceed the expense we currently record for our stock-based compensation plans and correspondingly reduce our net income in future periods. The value of our services could be diminished if anti-spam software filters out an increasing portion of the emails we send. Our ZAP system includes a feature that sends out personalized email messages to our registered users on behalf of our agents. Given the volume of these messages, anti-spam software used by Internet service providers and personal computer users sometimes treats these messages incorrectly as unsolicited email, or “spam,” and filters them out. If this problem becomes more pervasive, the value of this aspect of our marketing and communication approach could be diminished, which could harm our business. Because our marketing relationship with E-LOAN represents a source of revenue for us and funding for our clients, we could be harmed if this relationship became impaired. We receive revenues from our marketing relationship with E-LOAN, Inc., which provides the ZipRealty Mortgage Center on our website and pays us a flat monthly fee that is established on a periodic basis (representing less than 3% of our revenues during fiscal year 2005). E-LOAN was acquired by Popular, Inc. in late 2005. If our marketing relationship with E-LOAN became impaired, we could lose a source of marketing revenue that we may not be able to readily replace, and our clients could have a more difficult time obtaining financing, which could negatively impact our transaction revenues. OTHER RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK PRICE Our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, the risks identified above and the following: • variations in our quarterly results of operations; • announcements by us or our competitors or lead source providers; • the relatively low level of public float and average daily trading volumes of our common stock; • changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations, or termination of coverage by securities analysts; • inability to meet quarterly or yearly estimates or targets of our performance; • the hiring or departure of key personnel, including agents or groups of agents or key executives; • changes in our reputation; • acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors; • changes in the legal and regulatory environment affecting our business; and • market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Also, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and could harm the price of 29 Table of Contents our common stock. Although we carry general liability and errors and omissions insurance, our insurance may not cover claims of these types or may be inadequate to protect us from all liability that we may incur. Our share price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or from the perception that these sales could occur. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell our equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2005, we had 20,273,304 shares of common stock outstanding. The 5,232,500 shares sold pursuant to our November 2004 initial public offering are currently tradable without restriction. Almost all of the remaining shares are eligible for sale, subject in some cases to the volume and other restrictions of Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, we have registered approximately 4,942,807 shares of common stock that have been issued or reserved for future issuance under our stock incentive plans. Of those shares, options for 2,074,629 shares were vested as of December 31, 2005 and, if those options are exercised, those shares are eligible for sale. Also as of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding warrants for 4,603,088 shares that were fully vested and, if those warrants are exercised, those shares will be eligible for sale after the expiration of the lock-up agreements. Our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of our stock, and as a result, the trading price for our shares may be depressed and these stockholders can take actions that may be adverse to your interests. Our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially own over half of our common stock. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. These stockholders, acting together, will have the ability to exert control over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders who are executive officers or directors, or who have representatives on our board of directors, could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to you. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of common stock; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. 30 Table of Contents In addition, the provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporate Law govern us. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None. 