ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY Current economic conditions may have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions in the United States and the European Union have been deteriorating, may continue to deteriorate and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Our products and services are discretionary and dependent upon levels of consumer spending. Consumer spending patterns are difficult to predict and are sensitive to the general economic climate, the consumers' level of disposable income, consumer debt, and overall consumer confidence. The current economic conditions have impacted certain aspects of our businesses in a number of ways including reduced demand, more aggressive pricing by our competitors, decreased spending by advertisers, increased credit risks, increased credit card failures, loss of customers and discounted prices for certain of our products and services, and it is likely that these and other factors will continue to adversely impact our businesses, at least in the near term. The current economic conditions may also adversely impact our key vendors. The deteriorating economic conditions and decreased consumer spending are likely to result, and in certain cases, have resulted, in a variety of negative effects such as reduction in revenues, increased costs, lower gross margin percentages, increased allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and recognition of impairments of assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly with respect to our FTD segment. Our business is subject to fluctuations. Our results of operations and changes in our key business metrics from period to period have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control and difficult to predict. Each of the risk factors discussed in this Item 1A and the other factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC may affect us from period to period and may affect our long-term 21 Table of Contents performance. As a result, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons as an indication of our future or long-term performance. In addition, these factors and the continuing decline in economic conditions create difficulties with respect to our ability to forecast our financial performance and business metrics accurately. We believe that these difficulties in forecasting present even greater challenges for financial analysts who publish their own estimates of our future financial results and business metrics. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the expectations or projections made by our management or by the financial analysts. In the event we do not achieve such expectations or projections, our financial results and the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our operating results. We transact business in different foreign currencies and may be exposed to financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the British Pound, the Euro, and the Indian Rupee. Revenues and expenses in foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in U.S. Dollars as the U.S. Dollar weakens or strengthens against such other currencies. Substantially all of the revenues of our foreign subsidiaries are received, and substantially all expenses are incurred, in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, which increases or decreases the related U.S. Dollar reported revenues and expenses depending on the trend in currency. Certain of our key business metrics, such as the FTD segment's average order value, are similarly affected by such currency fluctuations. Changes in global economic conditions, market factors, and governmental actions, among other factors, can affect the value of these currencies in relation to the U.S. Dollar, and we do not currently hedge foreign currency translation risk. Recently, the U.S. Dollar increased in value compared to the British Pound, which has had an adverse effect on the FTD segment's operating results for the period from August 26, 2008 (date of acquisition) through December 31, 2008, and will continue to adversely affect the FTD segment's operating results, at least in the near term. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results, and such fluctuations could adversely affect our operating results. We may be unable to maintain or grow our advertising revenues. Reduced advertising revenues may reduce our profits. Advertising revenues are a key component of our revenues and profitability. In particular, we derive significant profits from post-transaction sales and search, and any termination, change or decrease in revenues from these sources could have a material impact on our profitability. Our revenues from advertising have in the past fluctuated, and may in the future fluctuate, due to a variety of factors including, without limitation, changes in the economy, advertisers' budgeting and buying patterns, the effect of key advertising relationships, competition, changes in our business models, changes in the online advertising market, changes in our advertising inventory, and changes in usage. Post-transaction sales are also dependent on the number of consumers purchasing our products and services. We expect our advertising revenues in our Communications segment to continue to decline as a result of the decrease in our dial-up Internet access accounts. Decreases in advertising revenues are likely to adversely impact our profitability. Our marketing efforts may not be successful, which could increase our costs and adversely impact our key metrics. We spend significant resources marketing our brands, products and services. We rely on relationships with a wide variety of third-parties, including Internet search providers, Internet advertising networks, co-registration partners, retailers, distributers and direct marketers, to promote or distribute our products and services. In addition, one of our strategies is to cross market our various products and services to our existing customer base. If our marketing, including cross marketing, activities are inefficient or unsuccessful, or if important third-party relationships become more 22 Table of Contents expensive or unavailable, our key metrics and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. Significant problems with our key systems or those of our third-party vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The systems underlying the operations of each of our business segments are complex and diverse, and must efficiently integrate with third-party systems, such as credit card processors. Key systems include, without limitation, billing; Web site and database management; order acceptance, fulfillment and processing including the system for transmitting orders through florist members; customer support; telecommunications network management; advertisement serving and management systems; and internal financial systems. Some of these systems, such as customer support and FTD's Web site, are outsourced to third-parties, and other systems, such as FTD's florist fulfillment system, are not redundant. We have experienced systems problems in the past, and we or these third-parties may experience problems in the future. In addition, if these third-parties face financial or other difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. Any significant errors, failures, interruptions, delays, or other problems with our systems or our third-party vendors or their systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, our Classmates Media and Communications businesses outsource a majority of their live technical and billing support functions. These businesses rely on one customer support vendor, and we maintain only a small number of internal customer support personnel for these businesses. We are not equipped to provide the necessary range of customer support functions in the event that this vendor becomes unable or unwilling to provide these services to us. Our failure to protect our proprietary rights could harm our business. Our trade names, trademarks, service marks, patents, copyrights, domain names, and trade secrets are important to the success of our business. In particular, we view our primary trademarks as critical to our success. We principally rely upon patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret, and contract laws to protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We also license some of our intellectual property rights, including the Mercury Man logo, to third-parties. The steps we and such third-parties have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and other third-parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights. The protection of our proprietary rights may require the expenditure of significant financial and internal resources. We cannot assure you that we have taken adequate steps to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could adversely affect our brands and could harm our business. We may be unsuccessful at acquiring additional businesses, services or technologies. Even if we complete an acquisition (such as our recent acquisition of FTD), it may not improve our results of operations and may adversely impact our business and financial condition. One of our strategic objectives is to acquire businesses, services or technologies that will provide us with an opportunity to diversify the products and services we offer, leverage our assets and core competencies, or expand our geographic reach, or that otherwise may be complementary to our existing businesses. We completed the acquisition of FTD in August 2008, and we may acquire additional businesses, services or technologies in the future. However, acquiring companies is a difficult process with many factors outside of our control. In addition, our credit agreements impose certain restrictions on our ability to complete acquisitions and there is no assurance that we will be successful in completing additional acquisitions. 23 Table of Contents We have evaluated and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide variety of potential strategic transactions that we believe may complement our current or future business activities. However, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits and synergies of an acquisition, including our recent acquisition of FTD, will materialize or that any integration attempts will be successful. Acquiring a business, service or technology involves many operational and financial risks, including risks relating to: •disruption of our ongoing business and significant diversion of resources and management time from day-to-day responsibilities; •acquisition financings that involve the issuance of potentially dilutive equity or the incurrence of debt; •reduction of cash and other resources available for operations and other uses; •exposure to risks specific to the acquired business, service or technology to which we are not currently exposed; •risks of entering markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; •unforeseen obligations or liabilities; •difficulty assimilating the acquired customer bases, technologies and operations; •difficulty assimilating and retaining management and employees of the acquired business; •potential impairment of relationships with users, customers or vendors as a result of changes in management of the acquired business; •potentially dilutive issuance of equity, large write-offs either at the time of the acquisition or in the future, the incurrence of restructuring charges, the incurrence of debt, the amortization of identifiable intangible assets, and the impairment of amounts capitalized as goodwill and other intangible assets; and •lack of, or inadequate, controls, policies and procedures appropriate for a public company, and the time, cost and difficulties related to the implementation of such controls, policies and procedures or the remediation of any deficiencies. Any of these risks could harm our business and financial results. In addition, an acquisition of a foreign business involves risks in addition to those set forth above, including risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates, potentially unfamiliar economic, political and regulatory environments and integration difficulties due to language, cultural and geographic differences. 24 Table of Contents A security breach or inappropriate access to, or use of, our networks, computer systems or services could expose us to liability, claims and a loss of revenue. The success of our business depends on the security of our networks and, in part, on the security of the network infrastructures of our third-party vendors. Unauthorized or inappropriate access to, or use of, our networks, computer systems or services could potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information, including credit card information, of our customers and of third-parties. We cannot assure you that the security measures we take will be effective in preventing these types of activities. We also cannot assure you that the security measures of our third-party network providers, providers of customer and billing support services or other vendors will be adequate. In addition to potential legal liability, these activities may adversely impact our reputation or our revenues and may interfere with our ability to provide our products and services, all of which could adversely impact our business. Legal actions could subject us to substantial liability and expense and require us to change our business practices. We are currently, and have been in the past, party to various legal actions. These actions may include, without limitation, claims by private parties in connection with consumer protection and other laws, claims that we infringe third-party patents, claims involving unfair competition, claims in connection with employment practices, securities laws claims, breach of contract claims, and other business-related claims. The nature of our business could subject us to additional claims for similar matters, as well as a wide variety of other claims including, without limitation, claims for defamation, negligence, trademark and copyright infringement, and privacy and security matters. Various governmental agencies have in the past, and may in the future, assert claims, institute legal actions, inquiries or investigations, or impose obligations relating to our business practices, such as our marketing, billing, customer retention, renewal, cancellation, refund, or disclosure practices. Defending against lawsuits, inquiries and investigations involves significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. We may not prevail in existing or future claims. The failure to successfully defend against certain types of claims, including claims relating to our business practices or alleging infringement of proprietary rights, could result in significant judgments, settlements or require us to change our business practices. Infringement claims may also result in our being required to obtain licenses from third-parties, which licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Both the cost of defending claims, as well as the effect of settlements and judgments, could cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly from period to period and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our substantial amount of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund operations, our flexibility in operating our business and our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and prevent us from satisfying our debt obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could have important consequences for our business and financial condition. For example: •if we fail to meet payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us; we will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions, and other purposes; 25 Table of Contents •we will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions, and other purposes; •our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions, and other general corporate requirements could be limited; •the credit agreements impose operating and financial covenants and restrictions on us, including limitations on our ability to use FTD cash flow for the benefit of subsidiaries other than FTD, and on our ability to use the cash flow of subsidiaries other than FTD for the benefit of FTD, and compliance with such covenants and restrictions may adversely affect our ability to adequately finance our operations or capital needs in the future, to pursue attractive business opportunities that may arise in the future, to redeem or repurchase capital stock, to pay dividends, to sell assets, and to make capital expenditures; •our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit agreements, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default under the applicable credit agreement (and any other credit agreement which contains a cross-default provision), which could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to become immediately due and payable and could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity; •we will experience increased vulnerability to, and limited flexibility in planning for, changes to our business and adverse economic and industry conditions; •we could be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies with less indebtedness; •our ability to apply excess cash flows or proceeds from certain types of securities offerings, asset sales and other transactions to purposes other than the repayment of debt could be limited; and •the interest rates under the credit agreements will fluctuate and, accordingly, interest expense may increase. Under the terms of the credit agreements, we will be permitted to incur additional indebtedness subject to certain conditions, and the risks described above may be increased if we incur additional indebtedness. Our credit agreements include guarantees on a joint and several basis by our existing and future, direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries and are secured by first priority security interests in, and mortgages on, substantially all of our direct and indirect subsidiaries' tangible and intangible assets and first priority pledges of all the equity interests owned by us in our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries (except with respect to foreign subsidiaries in which case such pledges are limited to 66% of the outstanding capital stock). The occurrence of an event of default under the credit agreements could permit the lenders to terminate the commitments of such lenders to make further extensions of credit under the credit agreements, to call and enforce the guarantees, and to foreclose on the collateral securing such debt. We may not realize the benefits associated with our assets and may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we are required to expense certain costs or impair our assets. We have capitalized goodwill and identifiable intangible assets in connection with our acquisitions. We perform an impairment test of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or when events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not indicate that goodwill or any such assets might be permanently impaired. If our acquisitions are not commercially successful, we would likely be required to record impairment charges 26 Table of Contents which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced impairment charges in the past, and in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded material impairment charges related to our FTD segment's goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Given the current economic environment and the uncertainties regarding the impact on the our business, there can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions regarding the duration of the ongoing economic downturn, or the period or strength of recovery, made for purposes of our goodwill impairment testing will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. If our assumptions regarding forecasted revenue or growth rates of certain reporting units are not achieved, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future periods. In addition, from time to time, we record assets on our balance sheet that, due to changes in value or in our strategy, may have to be expensed in future periods. Write-downs or impairments of assets, whether tangible or intangible, could adversely and materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to operate our business could be seriously harmed if we lose members of our senior management team or other key employees. Our business is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, particularly Mark R. Goldston, our chairman, president and chief executive officer, and other key personnel. Any of our officers or employees can terminate his or her employment relationship at any time. The loss of any of these key employees or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could seriously harm our business and prospects. We do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. Changes in laws and regulation changes and new laws and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to a variety of international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including, without limitation, those relating to taxation, bulk email or "spam," advertising, user privacy and data protection, and consumer protection. Compliance with the various laws and regulations, which in many instances are unclear or unsettled, is complex. Any changes in such laws and regulations, the enactment of any additional laws or regulations, failure to comply with, or increased enforcement activity of, such laws and regulations, could significantly impact our products and services, our costs, or the manner in which we conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. The FTC and certain state agencies have investigated Internet companies, including us, in connection with consumer protection and privacy matters. Federal, state and foreign governments have also enacted consumer protection laws, including laws protecting the privacy of consumers' nonpublic personal information. Our failure to comply with existing laws, including those of foreign countries in which we operate, the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement policies and procedures could increase the costs of operating our business. To the extent that our services and business practices change as a result of changes in regulations or claims or actions by governmental agencies, such as the FTC, or claims or actions by private parties, our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We face risks relating to operating and doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our businesses operate in a number of countries outside the U.S. Conducting international operations involves risks and uncertainties, including: •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 27 Table of Contents •potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value-added taxes and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; •increased financial accounting, tax and reporting burdens and complexities; •disruption of our ongoing business and significant diversion of management attention from day-to-day responsibilities; •localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; •lack of familiarity with, and unexpected changes in, foreign regulatory requirements; •longer accounts receivable payment cycles; •difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; •the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and legal standards; •political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and •reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international operations, our key business metrics, and our financial results. Our business could be shut down or severely impacted by a catastrophic event. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by a catastrophic event. A disaster such as a fire, earthquake, flood, power loss, terrorism, or other similar event, affecting any of our facilities, data centers or computer systems could result in a significant and extended disruption of our operations and services. Any prolonged disruption of our services due to these or other events would severely impact our business. We do not carry earthquake or flood insurance, and the property, business interruption and other insurance we do carry may not be sufficient to cover, if at all, losses that may occur as a result of any events which cause interruptions in our services. We cannot predict our future capital needs and we may not be able to secure additional financing. We may need to raise additional funds in the future to fund our operations, for acquisitions of businesses, services or technologies or for other purposes. Additional financing may not be available in a timely manner, on terms favorable to us, or at all. We incurred substantial indebtedness, in connection with the acquisition of FTD. The terms of such indebtedness in addition to the degree to which we are leveraged, will adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. In addition, the current extreme volatility of, and disruption in, the securities and credit markets may restrict our ability to raise any such additional funds. If adequate funds are not available or not available when required and in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, our business and future prospects may suffer. We may stop paying, or reduce, quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. The payment of future dividends is discretionary and is subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. The terms of our indebtedness impose limitations on our ability to pay dividends. Commencing with the third quarter of 2008, we have decreased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.20 per share of common stock to $0.10 per share of common stock. Changes in our business needs, including working capital and funding for acquisitions, or a change in tax laws relating to dividends, among other factors, could cause our Board 28 Table of Contents of Directors to decide to cease the payment of, or further reduce, dividends in the future. We cannot assure you that we will not decrease or discontinue quarterly cash dividends, and if we do, our stock price could be negatively impacted. We have anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for a third-party to acquire us. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make it difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders because of a premium price offered by a potential acquirer. Our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, which is an anti-takeover measure that will cause substantial dilution to a third-party who attempts to acquire our Company on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Our stock price has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and it may continue to be volatile with extreme trading volume fluctuations. In addition, The Nasdaq Global Select Market, where most publicly-held Internet companies are traded, has experienced substantial price and trading volume fluctuations. The broad market and industry factors that influence or affect such fluctuations may harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. As a result of these or other reasons, we have experienced and may continue to experience significant declines in the market price of our common stock. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR FTD SEGMENT Competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We compete in the market for flowers and, to a lesser degree, specialty gifts. In the consumer market, consumers are our customers for direct sales of floral and specialty gifts through our Web sites and toll-free telephone numbers. In the floral services market, retail florists are our customers for memberships and subscriptions to our various floral network services including, among other things, access to the FTD and Interflora brands and the Mercury Man logo, access to the florist network, credit card processing services, e-commerce Web sites, online advertising tools, and telephone answering and order-taking services. The consumer market for flowers and specialty gifts is highly competitive, and consumers can purchase the products we offer from numerous sources, including traditional retail florists, supermarkets, specialty gift retailers and large nationwide floral marketers, such as those that use Web sites, toll-free telephone numbers and catalogs. The floral network services market is highly competitive as well, and retail florists may choose from a few floral service providers that offer similar products and services. In the U.S., our key competitors in the consumer market include 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Proflowers.com, and our key competitors in the floral services market include Teleflora and BloomNet Wire Service, a subsidiary of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM. International key competitors include Marks & Spencer, NEXT, John Lewis, Teleflorist, and Flowers Direct. We believe competition in the consumer market will likely intensify. Supermarkets and nationwide floral marketers have been gaining market share over retail florists as consumers continue to shift more of their floral purchases to these channels. We expect the sales volumes at supermarkets and other mass market retailers to continue to increase, and other nationwide floral marketers will continue to increase their competition with us. In particular, the nature of the Internet as a marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparative shopping, and we have experienced increased competition based on price. Some of our competitors may have significant competitive advantages over us, may devote significantly greater resources to marketing campaigns or other aspects of their business or may respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities or customer requirements. 29 Table of Contents We expect competition in the floral network services market to continue to increase as well. We believe we will continue to experience increasing competition from the other floral network services providers. In addition, we expect our customers, the retail florists, likely will continue to lose sales to supermarkets and other nationwide floral marketers, which likely will result in a continuing decrease in their revenues and in the number of retail florists. As the number of retail florists and their revenues decrease, competition for the remaining retail florists and their business will intensify. Increased competition in the consumer market or the floral network services market may result in lower revenues, reduced gross margins, loss of market share, and increased marketing expenditures. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are dependent on third-parties who fulfill orders and deliver goods and services to our customers and their failure to provide our customers with high quality products and customer service may harm our brand and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We believe that our success in promoting and enhancing our brands depends on our ability to provide our customers high quality products and a high level of customer service. Our business depends, in part, on the ability of our network of independent florist members and third-party suppliers who fulfill our orders to do so at high quality levels. We work with our florist members and third-party suppliers to develop best practices for quality assurance; however, we generally do not directly control or continuously monitor any florist member or third-party supplier. The failure of our network of florist members or third-party suppliers to fulfill orders to our customers' satisfaction, at an acceptable quality level and within the required timeframe, could adversely impact our brand and cause us to lose customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Additionally, because we depend upon third-parties for the delivery of our products to customers, strikes or other service interruptions affecting these shippers could have an adverse effect on our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. If any of our shippers are unable or unwilling to deliver our products, we would have to engage alternative shippers which could increase our costs. A disruption in any of our shippers' delivery of our products could cause us to lose customers or could increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The success of our business is dependent on our florist members and on the financial performance of the retail floral industry. A significant portion of our profitability is dependent on our florist members. We have lost, and may continue to lose, florist members as a result of both our members choosing not to do business with us as well as declines in the number of retail florists as a result of economic factors and competition. If we lose a significant number of florist members, or if we are not able to maintain or increase revenues from our florist members, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. If the supply of flowers becomes limited, the price of these products could rise or these products may become unavailable, which could result in our not being able to meet consumer demand and could cause an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Many factors, such as weather conditions, agricultural limitations and restrictions relating to the management of pests and disease, affect the supply of flowers and the price of our floral products. If the supply of flowers available for sale is limited, the wholesale prices of flowers could rise, which 30 Table of Contents would cause us to increase our prices or reduce our profits and gross margins. An increase in our prices could result in a decline in customer demand for our floral products, which would decrease our revenues. Alternatively, we may not be able to obtain high quality flowers in an amount sufficient to meet customer demand. Even if available, flowers from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than those currently offered by us. A large portion of our supply of flowers is sourced from countries such as Colombia, Ecuador and Holland. The availability and price of our products could be affected by a number of other factors affecting suppliers, including: •severe weather; •import duties and quotas; •time-consuming import regulations or controls at airports; •changes in trading status; •economic uncertainties and currency fluctuations, including as a result of the recent volatility and disruptions in the credit markets and general economy; •foreign government regulations and political unrest; •governmental bans or quarantines; and •trade restrictions, including U.S. retaliation against foreign trade practices. Foreign, state and local governments may attempt to impose additional sales and use taxes, value-added taxes or other taxes on our business activities, including our past sales, which could decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers, reduce our sales, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In accordance with current industry practice by domestic floral and specialty gift order gatherers and our interpretation of applicable law, our FTD business collects and remits sales and use taxes on orders that are delivered in states where FTD has a physical presence or other form of jurisdictional nexus, which is a limited number of states. If states successfully challenge this practice and impose sales and use taxes on orders delivered in states where we do not have physical presence, we could incur substantial tax liabilities for past sales and lose future sales as a result of the increased tax cost that would be borne by the customer. In addition, future changes in the operation of our online and telephonic sales channels could result in the imposition of additional sales and use tax obligations. Moreover, a number of states have been considering or instituting policy initiatives, including those regarding nexus by Internet marketers with the states aimed at expanding the reach of existing sales and use tax legislation, that could result in the imposition of additional sales and use taxes on sales over the Internet. If enacted and legally supported by the courts, such initiatives could require us to collect additional sales and use taxes. Additionally, in accordance with current industry practice by international floral and specialty gift direct marketers and our interpretation of applicable law, we collect and remit value-added taxes on certain consumer orders placed through Interflora. Future changes in the operation of our Interflora business could result in the imposition of additional tax obligations. Moreover, if a foreign taxing authority challenges our current practice or implements new legislative initiatives, additional taxes on consumer sales could be due by us. The imposition of additional tax liability for past or future sales could decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations, and cash flow. 31 Table of Contents During peak periods, we utilize temporary employees and outsourced staff, who may not be as well trained or committed to our customers as our permanent employees, and their failure to provide our customers with high-quality customer service may cause our customers not to return, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. During peak periods, we utilize and rely on a significant number of temporary employees and outsourced staff in addition to our permanent employees, to take orders and respond to customer inquiries. These temporary employees and outsourced staff may not have the same level of commitment to our customers or be as well trained as our permanent employees. In addition, we may not hire enough temporary employees and outsourced staff to adequately handle the increased volume of telephone calls we receive during peak periods. If our customers are dissatisfied with the quality of the customer service they receive, they may not place orders with us again, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR CLASSMATES MEDIA SEGMENT We expect to face increasing competition that could result in a loss of users and reduced revenues and decreased profitability. Our social networking services compete with a wide variety of social networking Web sites, including broad social networking Web sites such as Facebook and MySpace; a number of specialty Web sites, including LinkedIn and Reunion.com, that offer online social networking services based on school or work communities; and schools, employers and associations that maintain their own Internet-based alumni information services. We also compete with a wide variety of Web sites that provide users with alternative networks and ways of locating and interacting with acquaintances from various affiliations, including Web portals such as Yahoo!, MSN and AOL, online services designed to locate individuals such as White Pages and US Search, and Internet search engines that have the ability to locate individuals, including by finding individuals through their profiles on social networking Web sites. We believe that there are currently only a small number of competitive online social networking services that are focused specifically on our niche of the market, which is to help people find and reconnect with enduring relationships from school. As a result of the growth of the social networking market and minimal barriers to entry, a number of companies have entered or are attempting to enter our market, either directly or indirectly, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. In addition, many existing social networking services are broadening their service offerings to compete with our services. As we evolve our services and provide more opportunities for our members to meet new people with similar interests or affiliations, we may compete with the increasing number of social networking Web sites for special niches and areas of interest. The market for loyalty marketing services is highly competitive, and we expect competition to significantly increase in the future as loyalty marketing programs grow in popularity. Our MyPoints loyalty marketing business faces competition for members from several other online loyalty marketing programs. We also face competition from offline loyalty marketing programs that have a significant online presence, such as those operated by credit card, airline and hotel companies. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name and brand recognition, larger user bases, significantly greater financial, technical, sales, and marketing resources, and engage in more extensive research and development than we do. Some of our competitors also have lower customer acquisition costs than we do, offer a wider variety of services, have more compelling Web sites with more extensive user-generated content or offer their services free to their users. If our competitors are more successful than we are in attracting users, our ability to maintain a large and growing user base will be adversely affected. If our social networking competitors provide similar services for free, we may not be able to continue to charge for any of our services. Competition could have a material adverse effect on our subscription revenues from social networking services, as well as on advertising revenues from our social networking and loyalty marketing services. More intense 32 Table of Contents competition could also require us to increase our marketing expenditures. As a result of competition, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Failure to increase or maintain the number of pay accounts for our social networking services could cause our business and financial results to suffer. Pay accounts are critical to our business model. Only a small percentage of users initially registering for our social networking services sign up for a paid subscription at the time of registration. As a result, our ability to generate subscription revenue is highly dependent on our ability to attract users to our Web sites and register them as free members, to encourage them to return to our Web sites, and to convince them to become pay accounts in order to access the pay features of our Web sites. If we are not able to attract users to our Web sites and convert a significant portion to pay accounts, we may not be able to increase or maintain the number of pay accounts for our social networking services and our business and financial results would be adversely affected. A number of our social networking pay account subscriptions each month are not renewed or are canceled, which, for the Classmates Media segment, we refer to as "churn." The level of churn we experience fluctuates from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, including our mix of subscription terms, which affects the timing of subscription expirations. We must continually add new social networking pay accounts both to replace pay accounts who churn and to grow our business beyond our current pay account base. We expect that our churn rate will continue to fluctuate from period to period. A significant majority of our pay accounts are on plans that automatically renew at the end of their subscription period and we have received complaints with respect to our renewal policies. Any change in our renewal policies or practices could have a material impact on our churn rate. If we experience a higher than expected level of churn, it will make it more difficult for us to increase or maintain the number of pay accounts, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our financial results. Failure to increase or maintain the number of members for our social networking and loyalty marketing services or the activity level of these members could cause our business and financial results to suffer. The success of our social networking and loyalty marketing services depends upon our ability to increase or maintain our base of free members and the level of activity of those members. A decline in the number of registered or active free social networking members, or a decline in the activity of those members, could result in decreased pay accounts, decreased content on our Web sites and decreased advertising revenues. A decline in the number of registered or active loyalty marketing members could result in decreased advertising revenues. The failure to increase or maintain our base of free members, or the failure to convince our free members to actively participate in our Web sites or services, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial results. Our social networking and loyalty marketing businesses rely heavily on email campaigns, and any disruptions or restrictions on the sending of emails or increase in the associated costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Our emails generate the majority of the traffic on our social networking Web sites and are the most important driver of member activity for our loyalty marketing service. A significant number of our social networking and loyalty marketing members elect to opt-out of receiving certain types of emails. Without the ability to email these members, we have very limited means of inducing members to return to our Web sites and utilize our services. An increase in the number of members who opt-out of receiving our emails could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Each month, a significant number of email addresses for our social networking and loyalty marketing members become invalid. This disrupts our ability to email these members and prevents 33 Table of Contents social networking members from being able to contact these members, which is a key reason why members use our social networking services. From time to time, Internet service providers block bulk email transmissions or otherwise experience technical difficulties that result in our inability to successfully deliver emails to our members. Third-parties may also block, impose restrictions on, or start to charge for, the delivery of emails through their email systems. Due to the importance of email to our businesses, any disruption or restriction on the distribution of emails or increase in the associated costs could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMUNICATIONS SEGMENT Our business will suffer if we are unable to compete successfully. We compete with numerous other dial-up Internet access providers as well as providers of broadband services. Our key dial-up Internet access competitors include established online service and content providers, such as AOL and MSN, and independent national Internet service providers, such as EarthLink and its PeoplePC subsidiary. Dial-up Internet access services do not compete favorably with broadband services with respect to connection speed and do not have a significant, if any, price advantage over certain broadband services. Many broadband providers, including cable companies and local exchange carriers, bundle their offerings with telephone, entertainment or other services, which may result in lower prices than stand-alone services. In addition to competition from broadband providers, competition among dial-up Internet access service providers is intense and neither our pricing nor our features provides us with a significant competitive advantage, if any, over certain of our dial-up Internet access competitors. We expect that competition, particularly with respect to price, both for broadband as well as dial-up Internet access services, will continue, and that our dial-up Internet access subscriber base will continue to decrease, potentially at an increasing rate, and that our broadband services will not experience significant growth. In order to compete effectively, we may have to make significant revisions to our services, pricing and marketing strategies, and business model. For example, we may have to lower our introductory rates, offer additional free periods of service, offer additional features at little or no additional cost to the consumer, or reduce the standard pricing of our services. Measures such as these could decrease our revenues and our average revenue per dial-up Internet access pay account. We may also have to allocate more marketing resources toward our dial-up Internet access services than we anticipate. All of the foregoing could adversely affect the profitability of our dial-up Internet access services which could materially and adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Revenues and profitability of our Communications segment are expected to decrease. Most of our Communications revenues and profits come from our dial-up Internet access services. As a result of expected continued decreases in our dial-up Internet access pay accounts and, potentially, the average monthly revenue per pay account, we expect that our Communications services revenues, advertising revenues, and the profitability of this segment will continue to decline over time. The number of dial-up Internet access pay accounts has been adversely impacted by both a decrease in the number of new pay accounts signing up for our services as well as the impact of subscribers cancelling their accounts, which, for the Communications segment, we refer to as "churn". Churn has increased from time to time and may increase in the future. The rate of decline in Communications services revenues has accelerated in some periods and may continue to accelerate. We also expect that our Communications advertising revenues will continue to decline. Continued declines, particularly if such declines accelerate, in Communications revenues will materially and adversely impact the profitability of this segment. 34 Table of Contents Our Internet access business is dependent on the availability of telecommunications services. Our Internet access business substantially depends on the availability, capacity, affordability, reliability, and security of our telecommunications networks. Only a limited number of telecommunications providers offer the network and data services we currently require, and we purchase most of our telecommunications services from a few providers. Some of our telecommunications services are provided pursuant to short-term agreements that the providers can terminate or elect not to renew. In addition, some telecommunications providers may cease to offer network services for certain less populated areas, which would reduce the number of providers from which we may purchase services and may entirely eliminate our ability to purchase services for certain areas. If we are unable to maintain, renew or obtain new agreements with telecommunications providers, our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 