Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our success largely depends on our ability to successfully commercialize our only product, DIFICID. Our success depends on our ability to effectively commercialize our only product, DIFICID, which was approved by the FDA in May 2011, for the treatment of CDAD in adults 18 years of age and older. We launched DIFICID in July 2011, and our ability to effectively commercialize and generate revenues from DIFICID will depend on several factors, including: · our ability to create market demand for DIFICID through our own marketing and sales activities as well as through our co-promotion agreement with Cubist; · our ability to train, deploy and support a qualified sales force; · our ability to secure formulary approvals for DIFICID at a substantial number of targeted hospitals and long-term care facilities; 21 Table of Contents · adequate coverage or reimbursement for DIFICID by government healthcare programs and third-party payors, including private health coverage insurers and health maintenance organizations; · the performance of our third-party manufacturers and our ability to ensure that our supply chain for DIFICID efficiently and consistently delivers DIFICID to our customers; · our ability to implement and maintain agreements with wholesalers and distributors on commercially reasonable terms; and · our ability to maintain and defend our patent protection and regulatory exclusivity for DIFICID. Any disruption in our ability to generate revenues from the sale of DIFICID or lack of success in its commercialization will have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations. The success of our efforts to commercialize DIFICID in the United States will be partially dependent on our co-promotion agreement with Cubist. Pursuant to our co-promotion agreement with Cubist, we engaged Cubist as our exclusive partner for the promotion of DIFICID in the United States. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that Cubist may devote to the co-promotion of DIFICID. If Cubist fails to adequately promote DIFICID, or if Cubist’s efforts are not effective for any other reason, our business may be negatively affected. In particular, we are relying on our co-promotion agreement with Cubist to reach a broader segment of the CDAD market than we could otherwise reach on our own. If Cubist is unsuccessful or the co-promotion agreement is terminated earlier than we expect, we may not be able to address these broader CDAD market segments, and the revenues we may generate from sales of DIFICID in the United States will be limited. We are subject to a number of other risks associated with our dependence on our co-promotion agreement with Cubist, including: · Cubist could fail to devote sufficient resources to the promotion of DIFICID, including by failing to maintain or train sufficient sales or medical affairs personnel to promote or provide information regarding DIFICID; · Cubist may not comply with applicable regulatory guidelines with respect to the promotion of DIFICID, which could adversely impact sales of DIFICID in the United States; · Cubist may not provide us with timely and accurate information regarding promotion and sales activities with respect to DIFICID, which could adversely impact our ability to manage our own inventory of DIFICID in the United States, as well as our ability to generate accurate financial forecasts; · we and Cubist may not be successful in coordinating our respective sales and promotion activities under the co-promotion agreement, which could lead to inefficiencies, the failure to maximize DIFICID sales in the Unites States, and/or disagreements between us and Cubist; or · business combinations or significant changes in Cubist’s business strategy, including the acquisition or development by Cubist of other products, may adversely affect Cubist’s ability or willingness to perform its obligations under our co-promotion agreement. Our co-promotion agreement with Cubist is subject to early termination, including through Cubist’s right to terminate if we experience certain supply failures in relation to the demand for DIFICID in the United States or if we are acquired by certain types of entities, including competitors of Cubist. If the agreement is terminated early, we may not be able to find another partner to co-promote DIFICID in the United States on acceptable terms, or at all, and we may be unable to sufficiently promote and commercialize DIFICID in the United States on our own. We are dependent on our collaboration agreement with Astellas to commercialize and further develop fidaxomicin in the Astellas territory. The failure to maintain this agreement or the failure of Astellas to perform its obligations under this agreement, could negatively impact our business. Pursuant to the terms of our collaboration agreement with Astellas, we granted to Astellas exclusive rights to develop and commercialize fidaxomicin in the Astellas territory, and pursuant to the terms of our supply agreement with Astellas, we are obligated 22 Table of Contents to supply to Astellas all of its requirements of fidaxomicin for such development and commercialization activities. Consequently, our ability to generate any revenues from fidaxomicin in the Astellas territory depends on Astellas’ ability to obtain regulatory approvals for and successfully commercialize fidaxomicin in the Astellas territory. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that Astellas will dedicate to these efforts. We are subject to a number of other risks associated with our dependence on our collaboration agreement with Astellas, including: · Astellas may not comply with applicable regulatory guidelines with respect to developing or commercializing DIFICID, which could adversely impact sales or future development of DIFICID in the Astellas territory; · we and Astellas could disagree as to future development plans and Astellas may delay future clinical trials or stop a future clinical trial; · there may be disputes between us and Astellas, including disagreements regarding the collaboration agreement, that may result in (1) the delay of or failure to achieve regulatory and commercial objectives that would result in milestone or royalty payments, (2) the delay or termination of any future development or commercialization of DIFICID, and/or (3) costly litigation or arbitration that diverts our management’s attention and resources; · because the milestone and royalty payments in the collaboration agreement are stated in terms of Euros but paid to us in U.S. Dollars, the amounts of any milestone or royalty payments that may be paid to us under the collaboration agreement could be less than what we expect, depending on the applicable exchange rate at the time of such payments; · Astellas may not provide us with timely and accurate information regarding sales and marketing activities and supply forecasts, which could adversely impact our ability to comply with our supply obligations to Astellas and manage our own inventory of DIFICID, as well as our ability to generate accurate financial forecasts; · business combinations or significant changes in Astellas’ business strategy may adversely affect Astellas’ ability or willingness to perform its obligations under our collaboration and supply agreements; · Astellas may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights in the Astellas territory or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property rights or expose us to potential litigation; · the royalties we are eligible to receive from Astellas may be reduced or eliminated based upon Astellas’ and our ability to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights and the presence of generic competitors in the Astellas territory; · limitations under the agreement on our or an acquiror’s ability to maintain or pursue development or commercialization of products that are competitive with DIFICID could deter a potential acquisition of us that our stockholders may otherwise view as beneficial; and · if Astellas is unsuccessful in obtaining regulatory approvals for or commercializing DIFICID in the Astellas territory, we may not receive any additional milestone or royalty payments under the collaboration agreement and our business prospects and financial results may be materially harmed. The collaboration and supply agreements are subject to early termination, including through Astellas’ right to terminate without cause upon advance notice to us. If the agreements are terminated early, we may not be able to find another collaborator for the commercialization and further development of DIFICID in the Astellas territory on acceptable terms, or at all, and we may be unable to pursue continued commercialization or development of DIFICID in the Astellas territory on our own. We may enter into additional agreements for the commercialization of DIFICID or other of our drug candidates, and may be similarly dependent on the performance of third parties with similar risk. 23 Table of Contents Other than our collaboration agreement with Astellas, we may not be able to enter into acceptable agreements to commercialize fidaxomicin outside of the United States or if, needed, adequately build our own marketing and sales capabilities. We intend to pursue the development of and potentially commercialize fidaxomicin outside of the United States through collaboration arrangements with third parties, such as our collaboration with Astellas, or independently. We may be unable to enter into additional collaboration arrangements in international markets outside of the Astellas territory. In addition, there can be no guarantee that Astellas or any other parties that we may enter into collaboration arrangements with will be successful or result in more revenues than we could obtain by marketing fidaxomicin on our own. If we are unable to enter into additional collaboration arrangements for our products or develop an effective international sales force, our ability to generate product revenues would be limited, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to enter into such collaboration arrangements for development of fidaxomicin in countries outside of the United States and outside of the Astellas territory, or if we otherwise decide to market fidaxomicin ourselves in these countries, we will need to develop our own marketing and sales force to market fidaxomicin in these territories to hospital-based and long-term care physicians. These efforts, including our on-going efforts in Canada through our recently established subsidiary, Optimer Canada, may not be successful as we have limited relationships among such hospital-based and long-term care physicians and may not currently have sufficient funds to develop an adequate sales force in each of these regions. There is no guarantee that we will be able to develop an effective international sales force to successfully commercialize our products in these international markets. If we cannot commercialize fidaxomicin, either through a collaboration or independently, in any territory that represents a significant market opportunity, our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will be substantially limited. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 1998. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $215.0 million. We have generated minimal revenues from product sales to date and we expect our expenses to increase substantially in the near term as we execute the commercial launch of DIFICID due to, among other things, increases to our headcount and on-going payments to Cubist pursuant to our co-promotion agreement, and as we pursue additional research and development activities, including potential additional indications for DIFICID. We have funded our operations through December 31, 2011 from the sale of approximately $333.8 million of our securities and through payments received under collaborations with partners or government grants. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with commercializing DIFICID and with developing, obtaining regulatory approval for and commercializing any future product candidates, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses. We or our collaborators may never successfully commercialize our product candidates, including DIFICID outside of the United States, and thus we may never have any significant future revenues or achieve and sustain profitability. If we and Cubist are unable to effectively train and equip our respective sales forces, our ability to successfully commercialize DIFICID in the U.S. will be harmed. As DIFICID is a newly marketed drug, none of the members of our or Cubist’s sales forces had ever promoted DIFICID prior to its launch in July 2011. As a result, we and Cubist are required to expend significant time and resources to train our respective sales forces to be credible and persuasive in convincing physicians, pharmacists, long-term care facilities and hospitals to use DIFICID. In addition, we and Cubist also must train our respective sales forces to ensure that a consistent and appropriate message about DIFICID is being delivered to our potential customers. We must also effectively collaborate and coordinate with Cubist sales force representatives in co-promoting DIFICID, including training efforts. If we or Cubist are unable to effectively train our respective sales forces and equip them with effective materials, including medical and sales literature to help them inform and educate potential customers about the benefits of DIFICID and its proper administration, our efforts to successfully commercialize DIFICID could be put in jeopardy, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, stock price and operations. The commercial success of DIFICID and any other products we develop or acquire will depend upon attaining significant market acceptance among physicians, hospitals, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Even after approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities for marketing and sale, physicians may not prescribe any of our products, which would prevent us from generating revenues or becoming profitable. Market acceptance of our products by physicians, hospitals, patients and healthcare payors will generally depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · timing of market introduction of our products as well as of competitive drugs; 24 Table of Contents · the clinical indications for which the product is approved; · acceptance by physicians and patients of each product as a safe and effective treatment; · perceived advantages over alternative treatments; · the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments, including numerous generic antibiotics; · the extent to which the product is approved for inclusion on formularies of hospitals and managed care organizations; · the extent to which bacteria develops resistance to the product, thereby limiting its efficacy in treating or managing infections; · whether the product is designated under physician treatment guidelines as a first-line therapy or as a second- or third-line therapy for particular infections; · the availability of adequate reimbursement by third parties, such as insurance companies and other healthcare payors; · limitations or warnings contained in a product’s FDA-approved labeling; · relative convenience and ease of administration; and · prevalence and severity of adverse side effects. With respect to DIFICID specifically, successful commercialization will depend on whether and to what extent physicians, pharmacists, long-term care facilities and hospital pharmacies, over whom we have no control, determine to utilize DIFICID. The sale of DIFICID to each hospital is to a large extent dependent upon the addition of DIFICID to that hospital’s list of approved drugs, or formulary list, by the hospital’s Pharmacies and Therapeutics, or P&T, committee. A hospital’s P&T committee typically governs all matters pertaining to the use of medications within the institution, including review of medication formulary data and recommendations for the appropriate use of drugs within the institution to the medical staff. The frequency of P&T committee meetings at various hospitals varies considerably, and P&T committees often require additional information to aide in their decision-making process, so we may experience substantial delays in obtaining formulary approvals. Additionally, hospital pharmacists may be concerned that the cost of DIFICID will adversely impact their overall pharmacy budgets, which could cause pharmacists to resist adding DIFICID to the formulary, or to implement restrictions on the usage of the drug in order to control costs. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in getting additional approvals from P&T committees in a timely manner or at all, and the failure to do so will limit our ability to optimize hospital sales of DIFICID. Even if we obtain hospital formulary approval for DIFICID, physicians must still prescribe DIFICID for its commercialization to be successful. Because DIFICID is a new drug with a very limited track record of sales in the U.S., any inability to timely supply DIFICID to our customers, or any unexpected side effects that arise from the use of the drug, particularly early in the product launch, may lead physicians to not accept DIFICID as a viable treatment alternative. Even after receipt of regulatory approval from the FDA, DIFICID is, and any other products we may develop or acquire in the future will be, subject to substantial, ongoing regulatory requirements. DIFICID is, and any future approved products will be, subject to ongoing FDA requirements with respect to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. The FDA has the authority to regulate the claims we make in marketing any products, including DIFICID, to ensure that such claims are true, not misleading, supported by scientific evidence and consistent with the approved label for the drug. In addition, the discovery of previously unknown problems with DIFICID or any future approved product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facilities where active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, or final drug product is manufactured, may result in the imposition of additional restrictions, including requiring us to reformulate the product, conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of the product or withdraw the product from the market. The FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may also impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies for any approved product. For example, as a condition of the FDA’s approval of DIFICID, we are required to conduct a microbiological surveillance program to identify the potential for decreased susceptibility of C. difficile to DIFICID, as well as two post-marketing studies in pediatric patients. We also plan to conduct a randomized trial to evaluate the efficacy of DIFICID in the treatment of patients with multiple CDAD recurrences. Depending on the outcome of the studies, we may be unable to expand the indications for DIFICID or we may be required to include specific warnings or limitations on dosing this product, which could negatively impact our sales of DIFICID. 25 Table of Contents We have implemented a comprehensive compliance program and related infrastructure, but we cannot provide absolute assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. If our operations in relation to DIFICID or any future approved product fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may: · issue warning letters or untitled letters; · impose consent decrees, which may include the imposition of various fines, reimbursement for inspection costs, due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance; · impose fines or other civil or criminal penalties; · suspend regulatory approval; · suspend any ongoing clinical trials; · refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; · impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; · exclude us from participating in U.S. federal healthcare programs, including Medicaid or Medicare; or · seize or detain products or require a product recall. Any of these regulatory actions due to our failure to comply with post-approval requirements could damage our reputation, limit our ability to market our products and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the failure of our current or future collaborators to comply with these regulations and similar regulations in foreign jurisdictions would limit our ability to fully commercialize fidaxomicin and any other product we may develop or acquire in the future. We must comply with federal and state “fraud and abuse” laws, and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, we could face substantial penalties, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the United States, in addition to FDA restrictions, we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: · the federal healthcare programs’ Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; · federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; · the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters; · federal “sunshine” laws that require transparency regarding financial arrangements with health care providers, such as the reporting and disclosure requirements imposed by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively, PPACA, on drug manufacturers regarding any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other health care providers; and 26 Table of Contents · state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of comprehensive compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by applicable regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn are used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. Recent healthcare reform legislation has also strengthened these laws. For example, the recently enacted PPACA, among other things, amended the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. We also expect there will continue to be federal and state laws and/or regulations, proposed and implemented, that could impact our operations and business. The extent to which future legislation or regulations, if any, relating to healthcare fraud abuse laws and/or enforcement, may be enacted or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business remains uncertain. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of operations. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with these laws and we recently increased our compliance resources in connection with the commercial launch of DIFICID. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. In addition, there can be no assurance that the occurrence of one or more violations of these laws or regulations would not result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our product sales depend on adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. Our and our collaborators’ sales of DIFICID are, and sales of any future approved products will be, dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and private insurance plans. We and our collaborators rely in large part on the reimbursement coverage by federal and state sponsored government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, which are increasingly challenging prices charged and the cost-effectiveness of medical products. These practices maybe further exacerbated by future healthcare reform measures. In addition, many healthcare providers, such as hospitals, receive a fixed reimbursement amount per procedure or other treatment therapy based on a prospective payment system, and these amounts are not necessarily based on the actual costs incurred. As a result, these healthcare providers may be inclined to choose the least expensive therapies. We cannot guarantee that our potential customers will find the reimbursement amounts sufficient to cover the costs of our products, including DIFICID. We have licensed rights to develop and commercialize fidaxomicin in Europe and certain other countries to Astellas. In the event we or our collaborators, including Astellas, seek approvals to market fidaxomicin in other non-U.S. territories, we or our collaborators including Astellas, will need to work with the government-sponsored healthcare entities in Europe and each other foreign country, as applicable, that are the primary payers of healthcare costs in such regions. Certain government payers may regulate prices, reimbursement levels and/or access to fidaxomicin or any future products to control costs or to affect levels of use of the product. We cannot predict the availability or level of coverage and reimbursement for DIFICID or any future approved product. If third-party coverage and reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize DIFICID or any other products successfully or at all, which would materially harm our business and prospects. 27 Table of Contents Regulatory approval for any approved product is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated as listed in the approved labeling. Any regulatory approval is limited to those specific diseases and indications for which a product is deemed to be safe and effective by the FDA. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication for an approved product also requires FDA approval. While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the regulatory authorities, our ability to promote the products is limited to those indications that are specifically approved by the FDA. Regulatory authorities in the U.S. generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments, and such off-label uses by healthcare professionals are common. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for any desired future indications for DIFICID or any future approved products, our ability to market and sell such products will be limited and our business may be adversely affected. If we or our collaborators fail to gain and/or maintain marketing approvals from regulatory authorities in international markets for fidaxomicin and any future product candidates for which we have or license rights in international markets, our market opportunities will be limited. Our and our collaborators’ ability to sell our product candidates outside of the United States is subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and marketing approval. Even if the FDA grants marketing approval for a product candidate, comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must also approve the marketing of the product candidate in those countries. Regulatory requirements can vary widely from country to country and could delay the introduction of our products in those countries. Clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries, and regulatory approval in one country does not guarantee regulatory approval will be obtained in any other country. In addition, our or our collaborators’ failure to obtain regulatory approval in any country may delay or have negative effects on the process for regulatory approval in others. We could experience significant delays and difficulties and incur significant costs in obtaining foreign regulatory approvals in the territories for which we retain commercialization rights. Other than fidaxomicin approval by the EMA in Europe, none of our product candidates is approved for sale in any international market for which we have or have licensed rights. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with regulatory requirements with respect to our product candidates in international markets or to obtain and maintain required approvals, our market opportunities and ability to generate revenues will be diminished, which would significantly harm our business, results of operations and prospects. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products. We face an inherent risk of product liability lawsuits related to the testing of our product candidates, and face an even greater risk related to the sale of commercial products, such as DIFICID. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our products or product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against a product liability claim, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: · significant litigation costs; · substantial monetary awards to or costly settlement with patients; · product recalls and/or an inability to continue marketing our products; · decreased demand for our product; · injury to our reputation; · termination of clinical trial sites or entire clinical trial programs; · withdrawal of clinical trial participants; · loss of revenues; and · the inability to commercialize our product candidates. 28 Table of Contents Our ability to market products is dependent upon physician and patient perceptions of us and the safety and quality of our products. We could be adversely affected if we or our products and product candidates are subject to negative publicity. We could also be adversely affected if any of our products or product candidates or any similar products distributed by other companies prove to be, or are asserted to be, harmful to patients. Also, because of our dependence upon physician and patient perceptions, any adverse publicity associated with illness or other adverse effects resulting from patients’ use or misuse of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We have product liability insurance that covers our commercial product up to a $10.0 million annual aggregate limit as well as global clinical trial liability insurance that covers our clinical trials up to a $10.0 million annual aggregate limit. Our current or future insurance coverage may prove insufficient to cover any liability claims brought against us. Because of the increasing costs of insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to commercialize DIFICID and develop and commercialize other product candidates, or continue our other research and development programs. We may require additional capital to fully commercialize DIFICID and any future products for which we obtain regulatory approval or acquire or in-license. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. Any debt financing, if available, may require us to pledge our assets as collateral or involve restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to significantly scale back our commercialization activities for DIFICID in the United States or significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development of one or more of our product candidates or research and development initiatives. We also could be required to: · seek collaborators for one or more of our current or future products or product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; or · relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. Any of the above events could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause our stock price to decline. To the extent we require addition resources to successfully commercialize DIFICID, and we are unable to raise additional capital or are unable to effectively collaborate with additional partners for the commercialization of DIFICID, we will not generate significant revenues from sales of this product and our business will be materially harmed. If we fail to attract and retain senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, sales and marketing, clinical and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent on our chief executive officer, and the other principal members of our executive and scientific teams. The unexpected loss of the service of any of these persons may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of research, development, commercialization and other business objectives. Replacing key employees may be difficult and costly and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products successfully. We do not maintain “key person” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. With the exception of Mr. Lichtinger, we employ these individuals on an at-will basis and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and with or without notice. We will need to hire additional personnel as we expand our commercial activities. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, sales and marketing and scientific personnel on acceptable terms in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California and New Jersey areas. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our commercialization and research and development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business and prospects may be harmed as a result. 29 Table of Contents We recently established a sales and marketing organization and have little experience as a company in marketing drug products. Our strategy is to build a fully-integrated U.S.-focused biopharmaceutical company to successfully execute the commercial launch of DIFICID in the U.S. market. Although we have engaged Cubist as our exclusive partner to co-promote DIFICID in the United States, we have very limited experience commercializing pharmaceutical products on our own. In order to commercialize products, in addition to our engagement of Cubist as our exclusive co-promotion partner for DIFICID in the United States, we have established our own marketing, sales, distribution, pharmacovigilance, managerial and other non-technical capabilities. We established the commercial organization primarily in New Jersey, and our bicoastal organizational structure could create management challenges. The establishment and development of our own sales force to market DIFICID has been and will continue to be expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully maintain this capability or successfully adapt it to commercialize and future products we may develop or acquire. Although we have engaged Cubist to assist in the promotion of DIFICID in the United States, our agreement with Cubist could terminate early, and our commercial presence may not be sufficient to adequately market DIFICID in the United States on our own. We also compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain marketing and sales personnel. To the extent we rely on third parties to commercialize our products, if any, we may receive less revenues than if we commercialized these products ourselves. In addition, we may have little or no control over the sales efforts of any third parties involved in commercializing our products, including those of Astellas in the Astellas territory and Cubist in the United States. In the event we are unable to further develop and maintain our own marketing and sales capabilities or collaborate with a third-party marketing and sales organization, we would not be able to fully commercialize any product, including DIFICID, which would negatively impact our ability to generate product revenues. We substantially increased the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. We had 278 employees as of February 29, 2012. The commercial launch of DIFICID required us to expand our managerial, operational, marketing, sales, financial and other resources. Our management, personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this recent growth, and we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified personnel in the future due to competition for personnel among pharmaceutical businesses, and the failure to do so could have a significant negative impact on our future product revenue and business results. To effectively manage our operations growth and various projects, we must: · effectively train and manage a significant number of new employees, in particular our sales force, who have no prior experience with our company or DIFICID, and establish appropriate systems, policies and infrastructure to support our commercial organization; · ensure that our consultants and other service providers successfully carry out their contractual obligations, provide high quality results, and meet expected deadlines; · continue to carry out our own contractual obligations to our licensors and other third parties; and · continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may not be able to implement these tasks on a larger scale, and accordingly, may not achieve our development and commercialization goals. Our failure to accomplish any of these goals could harm our financial results and prospects. We currently depend, and will in the future continue to depend, on third parties to manufacture our products and product candidates, including DIFICID. If these manufacturers fail to provide us and our collaborators with adequate supplies of clinical trial materials and commercial product or fail to comply with the requirements of regulatory authorities, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products. We have outsourced all manufacturing of supplies of our products and product candidates to third parties. We seek to establish long-term supply arrangements with third-party contract manufacturers. For example, in May 2010, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with Biocon for the commercial manufacturing of the API, for fidaxomicin and in June 2011, we entered into a manufacturing services agreement with Patheon to manufacture and supply certain fidaxomicin products, including fidaxomicin. We intend to continue outsourcing the manufacture of our products and product candidates to third parties for any future clinical trials and large-scale commercialization of any product candidates that receive regulatory approval and become commercial drugs, such as DIFICID. 30 Table of Contents Our ability and that of our collaborators to develop and commercialize fidaxomicin and any other product candidates will depend in part on our ability and that of our collaborators to arrange for third parties to manufacture our products at a competitive cost, in accordance with strictly enforced regulatory requirements and in sufficient quantities for regulatory approval, commercialization and any future clinical trials. Third-party manufacturers that we select to manufacture our product candidates for clinical testing or on a commercial scale may encounter difficulties with the small- and large-scale formulation and manufacturing processes required for such manufacture. Further, development of large-scale manufacturing processes will require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. Difficulties in establishing these required manufacturing processes could result in delays in clinical trials, regulatory submissions and approvals, or commercialization of our product candidates. While we work closely with our current suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. Even if we are able to establish additional or replacement manufacturers, identifying these sources and entering into definitive supply agreements and obtaining regulatory approvals may involve a substantial amount of time and cost and such supply arrangements may not be available on acceptable economic terms. A reduction or interruption in our supply of fidaxomicin API or drug product from our current suppliers, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to obtain fidaxomicin in a timely or cost effective manner to maximize product sales, and could result in a breach of our supply agreement with Astellas or our co-promotion agreement with Cubist, which could result in either or both of those parties terminating their respective agreements with us. In addition, we, our collaborators and other third-party manufacturers of our products must comply with strictly enforced current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. We currently rely on Biocon to manufacture fidaxomicin API and rely on Patheon to manufacture the drug product supplies. As such, Biocon and Patheon will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and other agencies for compliance with current cGMP, and similar foreign standards. The manufacturing facilities of Biocon and Patheon have been inspected and approved by the FDA for other companies’ drug products; however, none of Biocon’s or Patheon’s facilities have been inspected by the FDA for the manufacture of our drug supplies. We or other third-party manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state, local and foreign regulatory requirements. We and our collaborators have little control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements by our third-party manufacturers, including Biocon and Patheon could result in the issuance of untitled letters and/or warning letters from authorities, as well as sanctions being imposed on us, including fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall or withdrawal of product approval. In addition, we have no control over these manufacturers’ ability to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the safety of any quantities supplied by third parties is compromised due to their failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we and our collaborators may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize one or more of our product, which would significantly harm our business and prospects. If our product candidates are unable to compete effectively with branded and generic antibiotics, our commercial opportunity would be reduced or eliminated. Our products and product candidates compete or will compete against both branded and generic antibiotic therapies, such as branded Vancocin Pulvules, generic metronidazole and oral vancomycin with respect to DIFICID. In addition, we anticipate that DIFICID will compete with other antibiotic and anti-infective product candidates currently in development for the treatment of CDAD. For example, Cubist recently announced its intention to proceed with a Phase 3 clinical trial for its compounds, CB-183,315, as a potential treatment for CDAD. Many of these products have been or will be developed and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies, who have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing approved products than we do. As a result, these companies may obtain regulatory approval more rapidly than we are able to and may be more effective in selling and marketing their products as well. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established pharmaceutical or other companies. DIFICID currently faces, and we anticipate it will continue to face, increasing competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that will lose their patent exclusivity. For example, DIFICID currently faces steep competition from an inexpensive generic form of metronidazole in the United States. In Europe, DIFICLIR will immediately face generic oral vancomycin competition and in the future DIFICID may face competition from generic oral vancomycin in the United States as well. In addition, our internal market research suggests that there is increasing use of oral reconstituted intravenous vancomycin “slurry” in the hospital setting. Generic antibiotic therapies typically are sold at lower prices than branded antibiotics and are generally preferred by managed care providers of health services. For example, because metronidazole and generic vancomycin “slurry” are available at 31 Table of Contents such a low price, we believe it may be difficult to sell DIFICID as a first-line therapy for the treatment of CDAD other than in certain limited circumstances, such as in patients at high risk of recurrence. If we or our collaborators are unable to demonstrate to physicians and patients that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, our products are preferable to these generic antibiotic therapies, we may never generate meaningful product revenues. In addition, many antibiotics experience bacterial resistance over time because of their continued use. There can be no guarantee that bacteria would not develop resistance to DIFICID or any of our other product candidates. Our commercial opportunity would also be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize generic or branded antibiotics that are safer, more effective, have lower recurrence rates, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than our product candidates. If we fail to develop and commercialize other products or product candidates, we may be unable to grow our business. A key element of our strategy is to commercialize a portfolio of innovative hospital specialty products in addition to fidaxomicin. As a significant part of our growth strategy, we intend to develop and commercialize, independently and/or through collaboration partners, additional products and product candidates through our discovery research program using our proprietary technology, including OPopS. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire pharmaceutical product candidates and products that fit into our development plans on terms that are acceptable to us. To supplement this strategy, we may also obtain rights to additional product candidates from third parties through acquisition or in-licensing transactions. Any product candidate we identify or to which we acquire rights will likely require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including pre-clinical studies, extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure that are inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and/or effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any such products that are approved will be manufactured or produced economically, successfully commercialized or widely accepted in the marketplace or be more effective than other commercially available alternatives. A significant portion of the research and development that we decide to conduct may involve new and unproven technologies. Research programs to identify new disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. We currently have exited basic research and are not seeking to identify potential product candidates through internal research programs. We may seek to obtain rights to novel therapeutics from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will identify any product candidates to co-develop, in-license or acquire. If we do identify and enter into any such agreements regarding product candidates we cannot be certain such product candidates will produce commercially viable drugs that safely and effectively treat infectious diseases or other diseases. Even if we or our collaborators are successful in completing clinical development and receiving regulatory approval for one commercially viable drug for the treatment of one disease, we cannot be certain that we or our collaborators will also be able to develop and receive regulatory approval for other drug candidates for the treatment of other forms of that disease or other diseases. If we fail to develop and commercialize, independently and/or through collaborators, viable drugs, we will not be successful in developing a pipeline of potential product candidates to follow DIFICID, and our business prospects would be significantly harmed. Our future growth depends on our ability to identify and acquire or in-license products. If we do not successfully identify and acquire or in-license related product candidates or integrate them into our operations, we may have limited growth opportunities. An important part of our business strategy is to continue to develop a pipeline of product candidates by acquiring or in-licensing products, businesses or technologies that we believe are a strategic fit for our business. Future in-licenses or acquisitions, however, may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: · exposure to unknown liabilities; · disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; · incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; · higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; 32 Table of Contents · increased amortization expenses; · difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; · impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and · inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. In particular, we may compete with larger pharmaceutical companies and other competitors in our efforts to establish new collaborations and in-licensing opportunities. These competitors likely will have access to greater financial resources than us and may have greater expertise in identifying and evaluating new opportunities. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We rely on OBI for the development of one of our product candidates. In October 2009, we completed a number of transactions involving our subsidiary, OBI, including the sale of 40% of our ownership interest in OBI to various third party investors. In connection with these transactions, we assigned to OBI, and OBI assumed from us, our rights and obligations under our license agreement with MSKCC related to our OPT-822/821 product candidate. We also assigned to OBI certain of our intellectual property and know-how related to this product candidate. In exchange for these assignments, we have the right to receive certain milestone or royalty payments relating to OPT-822/821. We cannot assure you that OBI will successfully advance the development of OPT-822/821. In addition, if OBI does not comply with its obligations under the agreement with MSKCC, the agreement may be terminated and we may not be able to re-assume our rights under the agreement. If the agreement with MSKCC was terminated and we were unable to re-assume our rights, we would not be able to pursue further development of OPT-822/821. Moreover, the addition of third party investors in OBI has diminished our ability to control OBI, and we may no longer maintain a controlling interest in OBI. As a result, have to rely on OBI’s contractual obligations, including under our Intellectual Property Assignment and License Agreement, to ensure that OBI continues development of OPT-822/821 and complies with its obligations under the MSKCC agreement. Finally, OBI will need additional funds to further develop and commercialize OPT-822/821, and OBI may not be able to secure adequate funding or be able to do so on terms you or we believe are favorable. If OBI is unable to raise additional funds to continue operations, or otherwise fails to advance the development of OPT-822/821, we will not receive milestone or royalty payments with respect to this product candidate, and the value of our OBI equity position would likely diminish. To the extent we provide funds to OBI through additional equity investments or otherwise, we may need to divert funds away from our operations which could adversely affect the development and/or commercialization of our products and product candidates. Clinical trials involve a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through pre-clinical studies and initial clinical testing. In addition, sub-analysis of clinical trial data may reveal limitations of our product candidates even though top-line results are positive. The type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain regulatory approval for our product candidates may also change during or after completion of our clinical trials or we may inaccurately characterize such requirements. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities will agree with our interpretation of clinical trial data, or find such data sufficient to grant product approval. There are also risks that post-approval clinical trials we agreed to conduct or otherwise plan to conduct with respect to DIFICID will not yield positive results, which would impair our ability to continue marketing DIFICID in the United States. Delays in clinical trials are common and have many causes, and any such delays could result in increased costs to us and jeopardize or delay our ability to achieve regulatory approval and commence product sales as currently contemplated. We have in the past experienced delays in clinical trials of our product candidates and we may experience delays in future clinical trials. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be redesigned or will be completed on 33 Table of Contents schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial, in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites, in obtaining institutional review board approval at each site, in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial, in having patients complete a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up, in adding new sites or in obtaining sufficient supplies of clinical trial materials. Many factors affect patient enrollment, including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials, clinicians’ and patients’ perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating and whether the clinical trial design involves comparison to placebo. We could encounter delays if prescribing physicians encounter unresolved ethical issues associated with enrolling patients in clinical trials of our product candidates in lieu of prescribing existing antibiotics that have established safety and efficacy profiles or with administering placebo to patients in our placebo-controlled trials. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, our collaborators, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a drug, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience delays in the completion of, or termination of, any clinical trial of our product candidates, the commercial prospects of our product candidates may be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may significantly harm our business, financial condition and prospects. We may be required to suspend or discontinue clinical trials due to adverse events, adverse side effects or other safety risks that could preclude approval of our product candidates or negatively affect sales of any marketed product. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a number of reasons. We may voluntarily suspend or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe that they present an unacceptable risk to participants. In addition, regulatory agencies may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements or that they present an unacceptable safety risk to participants. In our Phase 3 clinical trials of DIFICID, the most common drug-related side effects reported were nausea, vomiting, constipation, anorexia, headache and dizziness. If adverse, drug-related events are encountered or suspected, our trials would be interrupted, delayed or halted and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease further development of or deny approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Adverse events encountered in any post-approval studies may also harm our efforts and those of our collaborators to market our product candidates or could result in withdrawal of regulatory approvals. Even if we believe our product candidates are safe, our data is subject to review by the FDA, which may disagree with our conclusions and delay or deny approval of our product candidates which would significantly harm the commercial prospects of such product candidates. Moreover, we could be subject to significant liability if any volunteer or patient suffers, or appears to suffer, adverse side effects as a result of participating in our clinical trials. Any of these occurrences may significantly harm our business and prospects. We have relied and in the future may rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we and our collaborators may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We have in the past entered into agreements with third-party CROs, such as INC Research, to provide monitors for and to manage data for our clinical programs. We and any CROs conducting clinical trials for our product candidates are required to comply with current good clinical practices, or GCPs, regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA for all of our products in clinical development. The FDA enforces GCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or the CROs that conduct clinical trials of our product candidates fail to comply with applicable GCPs, the clinical data generated in the clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require additional clinical trials before approving any marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any clinical trials of our product candidates comply with GCPs. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under cGMP regulations, and require a large number of test subjects. Our failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would be costly and delay the regulatory approval process and commercialization of our product candidates. 34 Table of Contents In addition, these third-party CROs are not our employees, and we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our clinical programs. These CROs may also have relationships with other commercial entities, including our competitors, for whom they may also be conducting clinical studies or other drug development activities, which could harm our competitive position. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements, or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may have to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed. Current healthcare laws and regulations and future legislative or regulatory reforms to the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell DIFICID and any future approved product profitably. The U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payors in the U.S. and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In the U.S., the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. In March 2010, PPACA became law in the U.S. PPACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the pharmaceutical industry. Among the provisions of PPACA of greatest importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following: · an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs; · an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; · a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their overage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; · extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; · expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals which began in April 2010 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning in 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; · expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; · new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians, including reporting any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective March 30, 2013, and reporting any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year; · a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians, effective April 1, 2012; · a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products; and · a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. We anticipate that the PPACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and an additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product, and could seriously harm our business. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. 35 Table of Contents We also cannot be certain that DIFICID or any future approved products will successfully be placed on the list of drugs covered by particular health plan formularies, nor can we predict the negotiated price for any future products, which will be determined by market factors. Many states have also created preferred drug lists and include drugs on those lists only when the manufacturers agree to pay a supplemental rebate. If DIFICID or any future products are not included on these preferred drug lists, physicians may not be inclined to prescribe them to their Medicaid patients, thereby diminishing the potential market for our products. As a result of the PPACA and the trend towards cost-effectiveness criteria and managed healthcare in the United States, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. They may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approvals. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payors will reimburse for newly-approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs. Further, we do not have experience in ensuring approval by applicable third-party payors outside of the United States for coverage and reimbursement of our products. The availability of numerous generic antibiotics at lower prices than branded antibiotics can also be expected to substantially reduce the likelihood of reimbursement for DIFICID. We also anticipate pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we and our third-party manufacturers must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our third-party manufacturers’ activities and, to a lesser extent, our own activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including the components of our products and product candidates and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturers are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We currently have insurance coverage in the amount of approximately $250,000 for damage claims arising from contamination on our property. These amounts may not be sufficient to adequately protect us from liability for damage claims relating to contamination. If we are subject to liability exceeding our insurance coverage amounts, our business and prospects would be harmed. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may also curtail our use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of computer, telecommunications or other system failure. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our commercialization activities or drug development programs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability, the commercialization of our products may be harmed and the further development of our product candidates may be delayed. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property It is difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technologies, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of the use, formulation and structure of our products and product candidates, and the methods used to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges, including those from generic drug manufacturers. Our ability to protect our product and product candidates from unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing by third parties is dependent upon the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets that cover these activities. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the United States. The biotechnology patent situation outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our licensed patents, our patents or in third-party patents. 36 Table of Contents The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: · others may be able to make compounds that are similar to our product and product candidates but that are not covered by the claims of our pending patent applications or owned or licensed patents, or for which we are not licensed under our license agreements; · others may be able to make competing pharmaceutical formulations containing our product and product candidates or components of our product formulations that are either not covered by the claims of our owned or licensed patents, not licensed to us under our license agreements or are subject to patents that expire; · we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our patents and patent applications or the pending patent applications and issued patents of our licensors; · we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; · others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; · it is possible that our pending patent applications or our licensed patent applications will not result in issued patents; · our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications and issued patents we own or license of our licensors may not provide us with any competitive advantages, may be designed around by our competitors, including generic drug companies, or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties; · we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or · the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, to the extent we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and product candidates or in the event such patent protection expires, it may no longer be cost effective to extend our portfolio by pursuing additional development of a product candidate for follow-on indications for any product. We have 12 pending patent applications and five issued patents related to fidaxomicin from the United States Patent and Trademark Office or U.S.P.T.O. These patents and patent applications related to fidaxomicin encompass various topics relating to: · composition of matter for fidaxomicin; · composition of matter for fidaxomicin related substances and use for CDI; · polymorphic forms (issued in U.S.); · composition comprising a polymorphic form (issued in the U.S.); · manufacturing processes (issued in the U.S.); · treatment of diseases with fidaxomicin (issued in the U.S.); · formulation; and · fidaxomicin related compounds, including metabolites, e.g. OP-1118 (issued in the U.S.). If we are unable to obtain a composition of matter patent, our competitors, including generic drug companies, may be able to design other similar formulations of the active ingredient of fidaxomicin. Furthermore, our competitors, including generic drug companies, may be able to design around our existing patents and pending applications which may issue as patents for fidaxomicin. As a result, our competitors may be able to develop competing products. 37 Table of Contents We depend, in part, on our licensors and collaborators to protect a portion of our proprietary rights. In such cases, our licensors and collaborators may be primarily or wholly responsible for the maintenance of patents and prosecution of patent applications relating to important areas of our business. We may be dependent on Par to provide technical support for patent applications relating to fidaxomicin. If Par fails to adequately protect fidaxomicin with issued patents, our business and prospects would be significantly harmed. Our agreement with Par does not have explicit provisions regarding our rights to take necessary action with respect to maintenance of patents and prosecution of patent applications nor do such agreements provide us with any legal recourse in the event such parties do not so maintain and/or prosecute. If Par or others on which we rely for patent maintenance and prosecution fail to adequately maintain patents and prosecute patent applications relating to technology licensed to or from us, we may be required to take further action on our own to protect our technology. However, we may not be successful in maintaining such patents or prosecuting such patent applications and if so, our business and prospects would be significantly harmed. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third-party entity illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If we or our licensors fail to obtain or maintain patent protection or trade secret protection for our product candidates or our technologies, third parties could use our proprietary information, which could impair our ability to compete in the market and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and attain profitability. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to our patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights, and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or use, our technology. If we or, as applicable, our commercialization partners, including Astellas pursuant to its first right to enforce the patents licensed to it in the Astellas territory, choose to go to court to stop someone else from using our inventions, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that the underlying patents are invalid and/or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we or our commercialization partner were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that such other party’s activities do not infringe our rights to these patents. Furthermore, a third party may claim that we or our manufacturing or commercialization partners are using inventions covered by the third party’s patent rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, including making, using or selling our product candidates. These lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we or our commercialization partners are infringing the third party’s patents and would order us or our partners to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us or our partners to pay the other party damages for having violated the other party’s patents. We have indemnified our commercialization partners, including Astellas, against patent infringement claims and thus would be responsible for any of their costs associated with such claims and actions. The biotechnology industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods of use either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. Although we have conducted searches of third-party patents with respect to DIFICID, these searches may not have identified all third-party patents relevant to this product and we have not conducted an extensive search of patents issued to third parties with respect to our product candidates. Consequently, no assurance can be given that third-party patents containing claims covering our products, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas or fields, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, technology or methods. In addition, we have not conducted an extensive search of third-party trademarks, so no assurance can be given that such third-party trademarks do not exist, have not been filed, could not be filed or issued, or could not exist under common trademark law. While we have filed a trademark application for the names “Optimer”, and “Optimer Pharmaceuticals”, we are aware that the name “Optimer” has been registered as a trademark with the U.S. PTO by more than one third party, including one in the biotechnology space. As such, we believe there is a significant risk that third parties may allege they have trademark rights encompassing the names for which we have applied for protection. 38 Table of Contents Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our licensors’ issued patents or our pending applications or our licensors’ pending applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to invent the technology. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our or our licensors’ patent applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. PTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. Risks Related to the Securities Market and Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile. Before our initial public offering in February 2007, there was no public market for our common stock. We cannot assure you that an active trading market will continue to exist for our common stock. You may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at the market price if trading in our common stock is not active. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · general economic and market conditions and other factors that may be unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, including fidaxomicin sales and royalties, and our quarterly expenses; · announcement of foreign regulatory agency approval or non-approval of our or our competitors’ product candidates, or specific label indications for their use, or delays in the foreign regulatory agency review process; · actions taken by the FDA or other regulatory agencies with respect to our product or product candidates, clinical trials, manufacturing process or marketing and sales activities; · any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the EMA’s review of our MAA for DIFICLIR (DIFICID), including a request for additional information; · failure of fidaxomicin to achieve commercial success; · changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements for approvals; · the success of our development efforts and clinical trials, particularly with respect to DIFICID; · announcements by our collaborators with respect to clinical trial results, regulatory submissions and communications from the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory agencies; · the success of our efforts to acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates; · developments concerning our collaborations and partnerships, including but not limited to those with our sources of manufacturing supply and our development and commercialization partners; 39 Table of Contents · our dependence on our collaborators, such as Astellas, to commercialize and further develop our products in foreign countries in compliance with foreign regulatory schemes; · our failure to successfully execute our commercialization strategy with respect to our products following marketing approval thereof; · the success of our continuing efforts to establish and build marketing and sales capabilities; · inability to obtain adequate commercial supply for any product following marketing approval thereof, or inability to do so at acceptable prices; · announcements of technological innovations by us, our collaborators or our competitors; · new products or services introduced or announced by us or our commercialization partners, or our competitors and the timing of these introductions or announcements; · the development of generic product alternatives to our or our competitors’ products; · third-party coverage or reimbursement policies; · changes in government regulations affecting product approvals, reimbursement or other aspects of our or our competitors’ business; · actual or anticipated changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · conditions or trends in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the market valuations of similar companies; · sales of common stock or other securities by us or our stockholders in the future; · additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; · our ability to successfully integrate our new executive personnel into our organization; · difficulties associated with the expansion of our domestic operations into a bicoastal organization; · disputes or other developments relating to intellectual property, proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; and · trading volume of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated and/or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may significantly harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and prospects. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to decline. We have also registered all common stock that we have issued under our employee benefits plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to any applicable restrictions under the securities laws. In addition, our directors and executive officers may in the future establish programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the purpose of effecting sales of our common stock. If any of these events cause a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. 40 Table of Contents We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations result in increased legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs in the future to maintain the same or similar coverage. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. We are required to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of those controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Additionally, our independent auditors were required to perform a similar evaluation and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. At December 31, 2011, management and our independent auditors did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations have required, and continue to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. While we anticipate maintaining the integrity of our internal controls over financial reporting and all other aspects of Section 404, we cannot be certain that a material weakness will not be identified when we test the effectiveness of our control systems in the future. If a material weakness is identified, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, costly litigation or a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, or remove our current management. These provisions include: · a board of directors divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board will be elected at one time; · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; · limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders; · prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; · eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with a stockholder owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by our board of directors. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Such a delay or prevention of a change of control transaction could cause the market price of our stock to decline. 41 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 