Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, which we believe are the most significant risks related to our business, as well as the other information contained in this document. Risks Related to Our Operations General trends in the television industry could adversely affect demand for television advertising as consumers flock to alternative media, including the Internet, for entertainment. Television viewing among consumers has been negatively impacted by the increasing availability of alternative media, including the Internet. As a result, in recent years demand for television advertising has been declining and demand for advertising in alternative media has been increasing, and we expect this trend to continue. In recent years, the networks have streamed their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms in close proximity to network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those we own. These and other practices by the networks dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our stations. We and Mission have a history of net losses. We and Mission had aggregate net losses of $11.9 million, $1.8 million and $12.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We and Mission may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Our substantial debt could limit our ability to grow and compete. As of December 31, 2011, we and Mission had $640.4 million of debt, which represented 140.1% of our and Mission’s total combined capitalization. The companies’ high level of debt could have important consequences to our business. For example, it could: • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or obtain additional financing in the future; • limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities; • expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under the senior credit facilities is variable; • limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business and our industry; and • impair our ability to withstand a general downturn in our business and place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Obligations” for disclosure of the approximate aggregate amount of principal indebtedness scheduled to mature. We and Mission could also incur additional debt in the future. The terms of our and Mission’s senior credit facilities, as well as the indentures governing our publicly-held notes, limit, but do not prohibit us or Mission from incurring substantial amounts of additional debt. To the extent we or Mission incur additional debt we would become even more susceptible to the leverage-related risks described above. 14 The agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that limit our management’s discretion in the operation of our business. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our publicly-held notes contain various covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • pay dividends and make other distributions; • make investments and other restricted payments; • make acquisitions; • merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • create liens; • sell assets or stock of our subsidiaries; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, our senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain or meet certain financial ratios, including consolidated leverage ratios and fixed charges coverage ratios. Future financing agreements may contain similar, or even more restrictive, provisions and covenants. As a result of these restrictions and covenants, our management’s ability to operate our business at its discretion is limited, and we may be unable to compete effectively, pursue acquisitions or take advantage of new business opportunities, any of which could harm our business. Mission’s senior secured credit facility contains similar terms and restrictions. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in present or future financing agreements, a default may occur. A default could allow creditors to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. A default could also allow creditors to foreclose on any collateral securing such debt. Our senior secured credit facility agreement contains covenants which require us to comply with certain financial ratios, including maximum total and first lien ratios and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The covenants, which are calculated on a quarterly basis, include the combined results of Nexstar Broadcasting and Mission. Mission’s senior secured credit facility agreement does not contain financial covenant ratio requirements; however it does include an event of default if Nexstar does not comply with all covenants contained in its credit agreement. The senior subordinated notes and senior secured second lien notes contain restrictive covenants customary for borrowing arrangements of this type. Mission may make decisions regarding the operation of its stations that could reduce the amount of cash we receive under our local service agreements. Mission is 100% owned by independent third parties. Mission owns and operates 17 television stations as of December 31, 2011. We have entered into local service agreements with Mission, pursuant to which we provide services to Mission’s stations. In return for the services we provide, we receive substantially all of Mission’s available cash, after satisfaction of operating costs and debt obligations. We also guarantee all of the obligations incurred under Mission’s senior secured credit facility, which were incurred primarily in connection with Mission’s acquisition of its stations. Mission has granted to us purchase options to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of each Mission station, subject to FCC consent, for consideration equal to the greater of (1) seven times the station’s cash flow, as defined in the option agreement, less the amount of its indebtedness as defined in the option agreement or (2) the amount of its indebtedness. We do not own Mission or its television stations. However, we are deemed under U.S. GAAP to have a controlling financial interest in Mission because of (1) the local service agreements Nexstar has with the Mission stations, (2) Nexstar’s guarantee of the obligations incurred under Mission’s senior secured credit facility, (3) Nexstar having power over significant activities affecting Mission’s economic performance, including budgeting for advertising revenue, advertising and hiring and firing of sales force personnel and (4) purchase options granted by Mission that permit Nexstar to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of each Mission station, subject to FCC consent. In compliance with FCC regulations for both us and Mission, Mission maintains complete responsibility for and control over programming, finances and personnel for its stations. As a result, Mission’s board of directors and officers can make decisions with which we disagree and which could reduce the cash flow generated by these stations and, as a consequence, the amounts we receive under our local service agreements with Mission. For instance, we may disagree with Mission’s programming decisions, which programming may prove unpopular and/or may generate less advertising revenue. Furthermore, subject to Mission’s agreement with its lenders, Mission’s board of directors, comprised solely of shareholders, could choose to pay themselves a dividend. 15 The revenue generated by stations we operate or provide services to could decline substantially if they fail to maintain or renew their network affiliation agreements on favorable terms, or at all. Due to the quality of the programming provided by the networks, stations that are affiliated with a network generally have higher ratings than unaffiliated independent stations in the same market. As a result, it is important for stations to maintain their network affiliations. Most of the stations that we operate or provide services to have network affiliation agreements––12 stations have primary affiliation agreements with NBC, 11 with CBS, 11 with ABC, 11 with FOX, 5 with MyNetworkTV, and 2 with The CW. Additionally, eleven of the stations have secondary affiliation agreements – one with MyNetworkTV and 10 with Bounce TV. Each of NBC, CBS and ABC generally provides affiliated stations with up to 22 hours of prime time programming per week, while each of FOX, MyNetworkTV and The CW provides affiliated stations with up to 15 hours of prime time programming per week. In return, affiliated stations broadcast the respective network’s commercials during the network programming. All of the network affiliation agreements of the stations that we own, operate, program or provide sales and other services to are scheduled to expire at various times through June 2017. Our and Mission’s NBC network agreements for seven stations expire On March 31, 2012. In order to renew certain of our affiliation agreements we may be required to make cash payments to the network and to accept other material modifications of existing affiliation agreements. If any of our stations cease to maintain affiliation agreements with networks for any reason, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. Further, some of our network affiliation agreements are subject to earlier termination by the networks under specified circumstances. For more information regarding these network affiliation agreements, see “Business—Network Affiliations.” The loss of or material reduction in retransmission consent revenues could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Nexstar’s retransmission consent agreements with cable operators, direct broadcast satellite operators, and others permit the operators to carry our stations’ signals in exchange for the payment of compensation to us from the system operators as consideration. The television networks have recently asserted to their local television station affiliates the networks’ position that they, as the owners or licensees of programming we broadcast and provide for retransmission, are entitled to a portion of the compensation under the retransmission consent agreements and are including these provisions in their network affiliation agreements. In addition, our affiliation agreements with some broadcast networks include certain terms that may affect our ability to allow MVPDs to retransmit network programming, and in some cases, we may lose the right to grant retransmission consent to such providers. Inclusion of these or similar provisions in our network affiliation agreements could materially reduce this revenue source to Nexstar and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, system operators are actively seeking to change the regulations under which retransmission consent is negotiated before both the U.S. Congress and the FCC in order to increase their bargaining leverage with television stations. On March 3, 2011, the FCC initiated a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to reexamine its rules (1) governing the requirements for good faith negotiations between MVPDs and broadcasters, including implementing a prohibition on one station negotiating retransmission consent terms for another station under a local service agreement; (2) for providing advance notice to consumers in the event of dispute; and (3) to extend certain cable-only obligations to all MVPDs. The FCC has also asked for comment on eliminating the network non-duplication and syndicated exclusivity protection rules, which may permit MVPDs to import out-of-market television stations during a retransmission consent dispute. If the FCC prohibits joint negotiations or modifies the network non-duplication and syndicated exclusivity protection rules, such changes could materially reduce this revenue source and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 The FCC could decide not to grant renewal of the FCC license of any of the stations we operate or provide services to which would require that station to cease operations. Television broadcast licenses are granted for a maximum term of eight years and are subject to renewal upon application to the FCC. The FCC is required to grant an application for license renewal if, during the preceding term, the station served the public interest, the licensee did not commit any serious violations of the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules, and the licensee committed no other violations of the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules which, taken together, would constitute a pattern of abuse. A majority of renewal applications are routinely granted under this standard. If a licensee fails to meet this standard the FCC may still grant renewal on terms and conditions that it deems appropriate, including a monetary forfeiture or renewal for a term less than the normal eight-year period. On October 26, 2005, the Director of the Central Illinois Chapter of the Parents Television Council (“PTC”) submitted an informal objection to the application for renewal of license for Nexstar’s station WCIA in Champaign, Illinois, requesting the FCC withhold action on WCIA’s license renewal application until the FCC acts on the PTC’s complaint regarding an allegedly indecent broadcast on WCIA. On January 3, 2006, Cable America Corporation submitted a petition to deny the applications for renewal of license for Nexstar’s station KOZL and Mission’s station KOLR, both licensed to Springfield, Missouri. Cable America alleged that Nexstar’s local service agreements with Mission give Nexstar improper control over Mission’s operations. Nexstar and Mission submitted a joint opposition to this petition to deny and Cable America submitted a reply. Cable America subsequently requested that the FCC dismiss its petition. However, the petition remains pending with the FCC. Nexstar and Mission filed renewal of license applications for their stations between June 2004 and April 2008. The majority of these applications, including the WCIA, KOZL and KOLR applications discussed above, remain pending with the FCC. Once a renewal application is timely filed, a station may continue to operate under its license even if its expiration date has passed. We and Mission expect the FCC to renew the licenses for our stations in due course but cannot provide any assurances that the FCC will do so. The loss of the services of our chief executive officer could disrupt management of our business and impair the execution of our business strategies. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to retain the services of Perry A. Sook, our founder and President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Sook has been instrumental in determining our strategic direction and focus. The loss of Mr. Sook’s services could adversely affect our ability to manage effectively our overall operations and successfully execute current or future business strategies. Our growth may be limited if we are unable to implement our acquisition strategy. We intend to continue our growth by selectively pursuing acquisitions of television stations. The television broadcast industry is undergoing consolidation, which may reduce the number of acquisition targets and increase the purchase price of future acquisitions. Some of our competitors may have greater financial or management resources with which to pursue acquisition targets. Therefore, even if we are successful in identifying attractive acquisition targets, we may face considerable competition and our acquisition strategy may not be successful. FCC rules and policies may also make it more difficult for us to acquire additional television stations. Television station acquisitions are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. FCC rules limit the number of television stations a company may own, and those rules are subject to change. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions if, for example, the FCC or other government agencies believe that a proposed transaction would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations. 17 Growing our business through acquisitions involves risks and if we are unable to manage effectively our growth, our operating results will suffer. Since January 1, 2003, we have more than doubled the number of stations that we own, operate, program or provide sales and other services to, having acquired 23 stations and contracted to provide service to 10 additional stations. We will continue to actively pursue additional acquisition opportunities. To manage effectively our growth and address the increased reporting requirements and administrative demands that will result from future acquisitions, we will need, among other things, to continue to develop our financial and management controls and management information systems. We will also need to continue to identify, attract and retain highly skilled finance and management personnel. Failure to do any of these tasks in an efficient and timely manner could seriously harm our business. There are other risks associated with growing our business through acquisitions. For example, with any past or future acquisition, there is the possibility that: • we may not be able to successfully reduce costs, increase advertising revenue or audience share or realize anticipated synergies and economies of scale with respect to any acquired station; • an acquisition may increase our leverage and debt service requirements or may result in our assuming unexpected liabilities; • our management may be reassigned from overseeing existing operations by the need to integrate the acquired business; • we may experience difficulties integrating operations and systems, as well as company policies and cultures; • we may fail to retain and assimilate employees of the acquired business; and • problems may arise in entering new markets in which we have little or no experience. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisition. FCC actions may restrict our ability to create duopolies under local service agreements, which would harm our existing operations and impair our acquisition strategy. In some of our markets, we have created duopolies by entering into what we refer to as local service agreements. While these agreements take varying forms, a typical local service agreement is an agreement between two separately owned television stations serving the same market, whereby the owner of one station provides operational assistance to the other station, subject to ultimate editorial and other controls being exercised by the latter station’s owner. By operating or entering into local service agreements with more than one station in a market, we (and the other station) achieve significant operational efficiencies. We also broaden our audience reach and enhance our ability to capture more advertising spending in a given market. While all of our existing local service agreements comply with FCC rules and policies, the FCC may not continue to permit local service agreements as a means of creating duopoly-type opportunities. On August 2, 2004, the FCC initiated a rule making proceeding to determine whether to make TV joint sales agreements attributable under its ownership rules. Comments and reply comments were filed in this proceeding in the fourth quarter of 2004. The FCC has not yet issued a decision in this proceeding. In addition, the FCC is required by statute to review its media ownership rules every four years and to eliminate those rules it finds no longer serve the “public interest, convenience and necessity”. The FCC initiated its statutory review of its ownership rules in May 2010, and in December 2011 it issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) in that review. The NPRM specifically requests comment on shared services agreements and other joint operating arrangements between television stations, and whether such agreements should be considered attributable. We believe the FCC will continue its review during 2012 but we cannot predict when the FCC will issue a decision on any proposed rule changes. However, if the FCC adopts a joint sales agreement attribution rule, or any other new or modified rule affecting the ownership of or local service agreements between television stations, we will be required to comply with such rules. The FCC may decide to terminate “grandfathered” time brokerage agreements. The FCC attributes time brokerage agreements and local marketing agreements (“TBAs”) to the programmer under its ownership limits if the programmer provides more than 15% of a station’s weekly broadcast programming. However, TBAs entered into prior to November 5, 1996 are exempt attributable interests for now. 18 The FCC will review these “grandfathered” TBAs in the future. During this review, the FCC may determine to terminate the “grandfathered” period and make all TBAs fully attributable to the programmer. If the FCC does so, we and Mission will be required to terminate the TBAs for stations WFXP and KHMT unless the FCC simultaneously changes its duopoly rules to allow ownership of two stations in the applicable markets. The level of foreign investments held by our principal stockholder, ABRY Partners, LLC and its affiliated funds (“ABRY”), may limit additional foreign investments made in us. The Communications Act limits the extent of non-U.S. ownership of companies that own U.S. broadcast stations. Under this restriction, a U.S. broadcast company such as ours may have no more than 25% non-U.S. ownership (by vote and by equity). Because our majority shareholder, ABRY, has a substantial level of foreign investment, the amount of additional foreign investment that may be made in us is limited to approximately 12% of our total outstanding equity. The interest of our principal stockholder, ABRY, in other media may limit our ability to acquire television stations in particular markets, restricting our ability to execute our acquisition strategy. The number of television stations we may acquire in any market is limited by FCC rules and may vary depending upon whether the interests in other television stations or other media properties of persons affiliated with us are attributable under FCC rules. The broadcast or other media interests of our officers, directors and stockholders with 5% or greater voting power are generally attributable under the FCC’s rules, which may limit us from acquiring or owning television stations in particular markets while those officers, directors or stockholders are associated with us. In addition, the holder of otherwise non-attributable equity and/or debt in a licensee in excess of 33% of the total debt and equity of the licensee will be attributable where the holder is either a major program supplier to that licensee or the holder has an attributable interest in another broadcast station or daily newspaper in the same market. ABRY, our principal stockholder, is one of the largest private firms specializing in media and broadcasting investments. As a result of ABRY’s interest in us, we could be prevented from acquiring broadcast companies in markets where ABRY has an attributable interest in television stations or other media, which could impair our ability to execute our acquisition strategy. Our certificate of incorporation allows ABRY and its affiliates to identify, pursue and consummate additional acquisitions of television stations or other broadcast-related businesses that may be complementary to our business and therefore such acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. We are controlled by one principal stockholder, ABRY, and its interests may differ from your interests. As a result of ABRY’s controlling interest in us, ABRY is able to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs. ABRY is able to unilaterally determine the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, five of our directors are or were affiliated with ABRY. ABRY’s interests may differ from the interests of other security holders and ABRY could take actions or make decisions that are not in the best interests of our security holders. Furthermore, this concentration of ownership by ABRY may have the effect of impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our shares. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, debt instruments and Delaware law contain anti-takeover protections that may discourage or prevent a takeover of us, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could delay or make it more difficult to remove incumbent directors or for a third party to acquire us, even if a takeover would benefit our stockholders. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock by our board of directors without a stockholder vote; • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and • set forth specific advance notice procedures for matters to be raised at stockholder meetings. The Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits us from engaging in “business combinations” with “interested shareholders” (with some exceptions) unless such transaction is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of this provision could have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. 19 In addition, a change in control would be an event of default under our senior secured credit facility and trigger the rights of holders of our publicly-traded notes to cause us to repurchase such notes. These events would add to the cost of an acquisition, which could deter a third party from acquiring us. We and Mission have a material amount of goodwill and intangible assets, and therefore we and Mission could suffer losses due to future asset impairment charges. As of December 31, 2011, $335.6 million, or 56.4%, of our and Mission’s combined total assets consisted of goodwill and intangible assets, including FCC licenses and network affiliation agreements. We recorded an impairment charge of $16.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 that included an impairment to the carrying values of FCC licenses of $8.8 million, related to 19 of our stations and an impairment to the carrying values of goodwill of $7.4 million, related to four reporting units consisting of five of our stations. We and Mission test goodwill and FCC licenses annually, and on an interim date if factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test of these assets, in accordance with accounting and disclosure requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets. We and Mission test network affiliation agreements whenever circumstances or indicators become apparent the asset may not be recoverable through expected future cash flows. The methods used to evaluate the impairment of Nexstar’s and Mission’s goodwill and intangible assets would be affected by a significant reduction in operating results or cash flows at one or more of Nexstar’s and Mission’s television stations, or a forecast of such reductions, a significant adverse change in the advertising marketplaces in which Nexstar’s and Mission’s television stations operate, the loss of network affiliations, or by adverse changes to FCC ownership rules, among others, which may be beyond our or Mission’s control. If the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets is revised downward due to impairment, such non-cash charge could materially affect Nexstar’s and Mission’s financial position and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Our operating results are dependent on advertising revenue and as a result, we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and other factors beyond our control than businesses not dependent on advertising. We derive revenue primarily from the sale of advertising time. Our ability to sell advertising time depends on numerous factors that may be beyond our control, including: • the health of the economy in the local markets where our stations are located and in the nation as a whole; • the popularity of our programming; • fluctuations in pricing for local and national advertising; • the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based media, particularly newspapers, cable television, Internet and radio; • the decreased demand for political advertising in non-election years; and • changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located. Because businesses generally reduce their advertising budgets during economic recessions or downturns, the reliance upon advertising revenue makes our operating results particularly susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. Our programming may not attract sufficient targeted viewership, and we may not achieve favorable ratings. Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our programming not to gain popularity or to decline in popularity, which could cause our advertising revenue to decline. In addition, we and the programming providers upon which we rely may not be able to anticipate, and effectively react to, shifts in viewer tastes and interests in our markets. Because a high percentage of our operating expenses are fixed, a relatively small decrease in advertising revenue could have a significant negative impact on our financial results. Our business is characterized generally by high fixed costs, primarily for debt service, broadcast rights and personnel. Other than commissions paid to our sales staff and outside sales agencies, our expenses do not vary significantly with the increase or decrease in advertising revenue. As a result, a relatively small change in advertising prices could have a disproportionate effect on our financial results. Accordingly, a minor shortfall in expected revenue could have a significant negative impact on our financial results. 20 Preemption of regularly scheduled programming by network news coverage may affect our revenue and results of operations. Nexstar may experience a loss of advertising revenue and incur additional broadcasting expenses due to preemption of our regularly scheduled programming by network coverage of a major global news event such as a war or terrorist attack. As a result, advertising may not be aired and the revenue for such advertising may be lost unless the station is able to run the advertising at agreed-upon times in the future. Advertisers may not agree to run such advertising in future time periods, and space may not be available for such advertising. The duration of such preemption of local programming cannot be predicted if it occurs. In addition, our stations and the stations we provide services to may incur additional expenses as a result of expanded news coverage of a war or terrorist attack. The loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our results of operations. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry trends, our television businesses may not be able to compete effectively. New technologies could also adversely affect our television stations. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view, the Internet, telephone company services, mobile devices, digital video recorders and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized television viewing audiences and expanded the numbers and types of distribution channels for advertisers to access. Over the past decade, cable television programming services, other emerging video distribution platforms and the Internet have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable and satellite television, the Internet and other technological changes have increased, and may continue to increase, the competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs, may increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire or develop desired programming. In addition, video compression techniques, now in use with direct broadcast satellites, cable and wireless cable are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques as well as other technological developments are applicable to all video delivery systems, including over-the-air broadcasting, and have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming, resulting in more audience fractionalization. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect that these and other technological changes will have on the television industry or our results of operations. The FCC can sanction us for programming broadcast on our stations which it finds to be indecent. In 2004, the FCC began to impose substantial fines on television broadcasters for the broadcast of indecent material in violation of the Communications Act and its rules. The FCC also revised its indecency review analysis to more strictly prohibit the use of certain language on broadcast television. In one of several judicial appeals of FCC enforcement actions, a Federal court in July 2010 held the FCC’s indecency standards to be unconstitutionally vague under the First Amendment. The Supreme Court agreed to review that decision and heard oral argument in the case in January 2012. Because our and Mission’s stations’ programming is in large part comprised of programming provided by the networks with which the stations are affiliated, we and Mission do not have full control over what is broadcast on our stations, and we and Mission may be subject to the imposition of fines if the FCC finds such programming to be indecent. Fines may be imposed on a television broadcaster for an indecency violation to a maximum of $325,000 per violation. Intense competition in the television industry could limit our growth and impair our ability to become profitable. As a television broadcasting company, we face a significant level of competition, both directly and indirectly. Generally we compete for our audience against all the other leisure activities in which one could choose to engage rather than watch television. Specifically, stations we own or provide services to compete for audience share, programming and advertising revenue with other television stations in their respective markets and with other advertising media, including newspapers, radio stations, cable television, DBS systems and the Internet. 21 The entertainment and television industries are highly competitive and are undergoing a period of consolidation. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do. The markets in which we operate are also in a constant state of change arising from, among other things, technological improvements and economic and regulatory developments. Technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of television entertainment, such as cable television, wireless cable, satellite-to-home distribution services, pay-per-view, home video and entertainment systems and Internet and mobile distribution of video programming have fractionalized television viewing audiences and have subjected free over-the-air television broadcast stations to increased competition. We may not be able to compete effectively or adjust our business plans to meet changing market conditions. We are unable to predict what form of competition will develop in the future, the extent of the competition or its possible effects on our business. The FCC could implement regulations or Congress could adopt legislation that might have a significant impact on the operations of the stations we own and the stations we provide services to or the television broadcasting industry as a whole. The FCC has initiated proceedings to determine whether to make TV joint sales agreements and shared services agreements attributable interests under its ownership rules; to determine whether it should establish more detailed criteria and additional recordkeeping and reporting obligations with respect to broadcasters’ requirements to serve the local public interest; to determine whether to require TV stations to maintain their public inspection files online (with additional information disclosed); and to determine whether to modify or eliminate certain of its broadcast ownership rules, including the radio-television cross-ownership rule and the newspaper-television cross-ownership rule. Changes to any of these rules may have significant impact on us and the stations to which we provide services. In addition, the FCC has sought comment on whether there are alternatives to the use of DMAs to define local markets such that certain viewers whose current DMAs straddle multiple states would be provided with more in-state broadcast programming. If the FCC determines to modify the use of existing DMAs to determine a station’s local market, such change might materially alter current station operations and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FCC also may decide to initiate other new rule making proceedings on its own or in response to requests from outside parties, any of which might have such an impact. Congress also may act to amend the Communications Act in a manner that could impact our stations and the stations we provide services to or the television broadcast industry in general. The FCC may reallocate some portion of the spectrum available for use by television broadcasters to wireless broadband use which alteration could substantially impact our future operations and may reduce viewer access to our programming. The FCC has initiated various proceedings to assess the availability of spectrum to meet future wireless broadband needs. The FCC’s March 2010 “National Broadband Plan” recommends the reallocation of 120 megahertz of the spectrum currently used for broadcast television for wireless broadband use. The FCC has thus far requested comment on proposals that include, among other things, whether to add new frequency allocations in the television bands for licensed fixed and mobile wireless uses, whether to permit two television stations to share a single 6 megahertz channel and whether to implement technical rule modifications to improve the viability of certain channels that are underutilized by digital television stations. In February 2012, Congress adopted legislation authorizing the FCC to conduct incentive auctions whereby spectrum holders, including television broadcasters, could voluntarily relinquish all or part of their spectrum in exchange for consideration. A reallocation of television spectrum for wireless broadband use would likely involve a “repacking” of the television broadcast band, which would require some television stations to change channel or otherwise modify their technical facilities. Future steps to reallocate television spectrum to broadband use may be to the detriment of our investment in digital facilities, could require substantial additional investment to continue our current operations, and may require viewers to invest in additional equipment or subscription services to continue receiving broadcast television signals. We cannot predict the timing or results of television spectrum reallocation efforts or their impact to our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 